
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[|X|]ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997

                                       OR

[ ]  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934   

     For the transition period from ____________ to _________________

                         Commission file number 1-13163

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     North Carolina                                        13-3951308
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

                 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky        40213
                 (Address of principal executive offices)     (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (502) 874-8300

                                                         Name of Each Exchange
                               Title of Class             on which Registered
                           --------------------------   ------------------------
Securities registered 
pursuant to 12(b) of 
the Act:                   Common Stock, no par value    New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered 
pursuant to 12(g) of 
the Act:                      None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X     No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     The aggregate  market value of the voting stock (which  consists  solely of
shares of Common Stock ) held by  non-affiliates  of the  registrant as of March
19, 1998,  computed by reference to the closing price of the registrant's Common
Stock  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  Composite  Tape  on  such  date  was
$4,489,735,175.

     The number of shares  outstanding  of the  Registrant's  Common Stock as of
March 19, 1998 was 152,255,271 shares.

     Portions of the definitive proxy statement furnished to shareholders of the
Registrant in connection  with the annual meeting of  shareholders to be held on
May 19, 1998, are incorporated by reference into Part III.








                                     PART I

Item 1. Business.

     TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  (referred to in this report as "Tricon")
was  incorporated  under the laws of the state of North  Carolina  in 1997.  The
principal  executive  offices  of Tricon  are  located  at 1441  Gardiner  Lane,
Louisville,  Kentucky 40213,  and its telephone number at that location is (502)
874-8300.

     Tricon, the registrant,  together with its restaurant  operating  companies
and other subsidiaries,  is referred to in this report as the Company.  Prior to
October 6, 1997,  the  business of the Company was  conducted  by PepsiCo,  Inc.
("PepsiCo") through various subsidiaries and divisions.

     This Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Cautionary Statements
on page 35.

     (a) General Development of Business

     In January 1997,  PepsiCo announced its decision to Spin-off its restaurant
business to  shareholders  as an independent  public  company (the  "Spin-off").
Effective as of October 6, 1997,  PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant  businesses
by distributing  all of the outstanding  shares of common stock of Tricon to its
shareholders. Tricon's common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
on October 7, 1997 under the symbol "YUM." As used in this report, references to
Tricon or the Company include the historical  operating  results of the business
and  operations  transferred  to the Company in the Spin-off  and,  except where
indicated, include the non-core businesses divested in 1997.

     Information  about the Spin-off and the non-core  businesses is included in
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis and the related  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 18 through 36; and Part II,
Item 8, pages 36 through 60, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments

     Industry  segment  information  for the  years  ended  December  27,  1997,
December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995 is included in  Management's  Discussion
and Analysis and the related Consolidated  Financial Statements and footnotes in
Part II,  Item 7, pages 18 through 36; and Part II, Item 8, pages 36 through 60,
respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     (c) Narrative Description of Business

     General

     Tricon is the world's  largest quick  service  restaurant  ("QSR")  company
based on number of system  units,  with almost 30,000 units in 103 countries and
territories.  The Tricon  organization  is currently  made up of four  operating
companies  organized  around its three core  concepts,  KFC,  Pizza Hut and Taco
Bell.  The four  operating  companies  are KFC,  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Tricon
Restaurants International ("Tricon International").  KFC is based in Louisville,
Kentucky; Pizza Hut and Tricon International are headquartered in Dallas, Texas;
and Taco Bell is based in Irvine, California.

     Restaurant Concepts

     Through its three widely-recognized restaurant concepts, KFC, Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell, the Company develops,  operates,  franchises and licenses a worldwide
system of restaurants  which prepare,  package and sell a menu of  competitively
priced food items.  These  restaurants are operated by the Company or, under the
terms of franchise or license  agreements,  by  franchisees or licensees who are
independent  third  parties,  or by  affiliates  operating  under joint  venture
agreements between the operating companies and local business people.



     The  Company's  franchise  program is  designed to assure  consistency  and
quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. Under the standard
franchise  agreement,  franchisees  supply  capital  -  initially  by  paying  a
franchise  fee,  purchasing  or leasing  the land and  building  and  purchasing
equipment,  signs, seating,  inventories and supplies, and over the longer term,
by reinvesting  in the business.  Franchisees  then  contribute to the Company's
revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.

     The Company  believes  that it is  important  to  maintain  strong and open
relationships with its franchisees and their  representatives.  To this end, the
Company  invests  a  significant  amount  of time  working  with the  franchisee
community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business,
ranging from new products to new equipment to new management techniques.

     Each of Tricon's  four  operating  companies  is engaged in the  operation,
development,  franchising  and  licensing  of a system of both  traditional  and
non-traditional  QSR units.  Non-traditional  units  include  express  units and
kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in  non-traditional  locations
like  airports,  gas and  convenience  stores,  stadiums,  amusement  parks  and
colleges,  where a  full-scale  traditional  outlet  would not be  practical  or
efficient.  In addition, as of year-end 1997, there were 349 units in the system
housing more than one concept.  Of these, 343 units offer both the full KFC menu
and a limited  menu of Taco Bell  products  (a  "2n1"),  and 6 units  offer food
products from each of the concepts (a"3n1").

     In each  concept,  consumers  can  either  dine in or carry  out  food.  In
addition,  Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-through  option in many stores. Pizza
Hut and, on a much more limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.

     Each concept has  proprietary  menu items and emphasizes the preparation of
food  with  high  quality  ingredients  as well as unique  recipes  and  special
seasonings  to  provide  appealing,  tasty and  attractive  food at  competitive
prices.

     KFC
     ---

     KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early
developer  of the quick  service food  business and a pioneer of the  restaurant
franchise concept. The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices
for Kentucky  Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first  franchisee in 1952.
By 1986,  when KFC was acquired by PepsiCo,  its restaurant  system had grown to
nearly  6,600  units in 55  countries.  KFC now has more than 5,100 units in the
U.S.,  and over 5,100 units in 78  countries  and  territories  outside the U.S.
Approximately  36 percent  of the U.S.  units,  and 31  percent of the  non-U.S.
units,  are  operated  by the  Company or joint  ventures  in which the  Company
participates.

     While product  offerings  vary  throughout  the worldwide  system,  all KFC
restaurants   offer  fried  chicken  products  and  many  also  offer  non-fried
chicken-on-the-bone products under the names Original Recipe, Extra Tasty Crispy
and Tender Roast.  Other principal entree items include Chunky Chicken Pot Pies,
Colonel's  Crispy Strips and various chicken  sandwiches.  KFC restaurants  also
offer a variety of side items,  such as  biscuits,  mashed  potatoes  and gravy,
coleslaw,  corn,  Potato  Wedges (in the U.S.) and french fries  (outside of the
U.S.),  as  well  as  desserts  and  non-alcoholic  beverages.  Their  decor  is
characterized  by the  image of the  Colonel  and  KFC's  distinctive  packaging
includes the "Bucket" of chicken.

     As of year-end  1997,  KFC was the leader in the U.S.  chicken QSR segment,
with a 55 percent  market share in that segment,  and a greater than 5 to 1 lead
in terms of system sales over its closest national competitor.





     In 1997, KFC's worldwide system sales exceeded $8 billion.  KFC's 1997 U.S.
system  sales of  approximately  $4 billion  grew by 2 percent  over 1996,  even
though the number of restaurants in its U.S. system did not materially increase.
This growth was  largely  due to product  promotions,  favorable  effective  net
pricing and increased  distribution  through home delivery  (which  factors were
partially  offset by lower  transaction  counts).  Average U.S. system sales per
traditional  unit in 1997 were  $786,000.  In 1997,  same store sales in Company
stores in the U.S.  increased 2 percent.  In 1996,  same store sales for Company
stores in the U.S. were also strong,  increasing 6 percent.  Margins for Company
stores in the U.S.  increased 1.5 percent in 1997,  marking the fourth year in a
row for margin improvements.

     Pizza Hut
     ---------

     Pizza Hut operates in 88 countries  and  territories  throughout  the world
under the name  "Pizza  Hut" and  features a variety of  pizzas,  including  Pan
Pizza, Thin n' Crispy, Pizzeria Stuffed Crust and Hand Tossed, each offered with
a variety of different toppings.  Pizza Hut also features beverages and, in some
restaurants,  breadsticks,  pasta, salads and sandwiches.  The distinctive Pizza
Hut decor features a bright red roof.

     The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita,  Kansas,  and
within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  By 1977, when Pizza Hut was
acquired by PepsiCo,  its  restaurant  system had grown to nearly  3,200  units.
Today,  Pizza Hut is the largest  restaurant chain in the world  specializing in
the sale of ready-to-eat  pizza  products.  As of year-end 1997, the concept had
grown to more than 8,600 units in the U.S., and more than 3,800 units outside of
the United States. Approximately 44 percent of the U.S. units, and 45 percent of
the non-U.S.  units,  are operated by the Company or joint ventures in which the
Company participates.

     As of  year-end  1997,  Pizza  Hut was the  leader  in the U.S.  pizza  QSR
segment,  with a 22 percent market share in that segment,  and almost double the
system sales of its closest national competitor.

     In 1997, Pizza Hut worldwide  system sales exceeded $7.3 billion,  of which
approximately  $4.7 billion is attributable  to U.S. system sales.  Average U.S.
system sales per traditional  unit in 1997 were $630,000.  U.S. same store sales
at Company  units  decreased 1 percent in 1997  reflecting  lower  average guest
checks in 1997 and decreasing  transaction counts in the first half of the year,
which  were  partially  offset  in  the  second  half  by  quality  initiatives,
increasing  transaction counts and the introduction of The EDGE pizza.  Notably,
same store sales at Company units in the U.S.  increased 5 percent in the fourth
quarter over the same period in 1996.  Same store sales at Company  units in the
U.S. in 1996 decreased 4 percent. In contrast,  U.S. same store sales at Company
units had increased a solid 4 percent in 1995 driven by the  introduction of new
products,  such as Stuffed Crust Pizza.  Margins for Company stores  decreased 1
percent in 1997.

     Pizza Hut has been named  America's  best pizza chain on many  occasions by
numerous newspapers, magazines and consumer publications.

     Taco Bell
     ---------

     Taco Bell operates  under the name "Taco Bell" and  specializes  in Mexican
style food  products,  including  various types of tacos and  burritos,  salads,
nachos and other related items.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo
on their signage.

     The first Taco Bell  restaurant  was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey,
California, and in 1964 the first Taco Bell franchise was sold. By 1978, when it
was acquired by PepsiCo,  the Taco Bell system had grown to approximately  1,000
units.  By year-end 1997,  there were more than 6,700 Taco Bell units within the
United  States,   and  more  than  170  units  outside  of  the  United  States.
Approximately  32 percent  of the U.S.  units,  and 42  percent of the  non-U.S.
units,  are operated by the Company.  In 1997, Taco Bell worldwide  system sales


exceeded $4.9 billion,  of which  approximately  $4.8 billion is attributable to
U.S. system sales.  Average U.S. system sales per traditional  unit in 1997 were
$972,000.

     Taco Bell is the  leader in the U.S.  Mexican  QSR  segment,  with a market
share in that segment of 72 percent.

     In 1997,  U.S.  same store sales at Company Taco Bell units  increased by 2
percent for the year  reflecting  the  successful  Star Wars(TM) and  Batman(TM)
promotions,  favorable  product  mix shifts and  pricing,  which were  partially
offset by lower transaction counts. After several years of having achieved above
industry average growth rates,  U.S. same store sales at Company Taco Bell units
declined 2 percent and 4 percent in 1996 and 1995, respectively,  as a result of
lower transaction counts.  Margins for Company stores in the U.S. increased by 3
percentage points in 1997.

     Tricon International
     --------------------

     Recently,  the  international  operations of the three Tricon concepts have
been consolidated into a separate international division (Tricon International),
which has  directed  its focus  toward  generating  more system  growth  through
franchisees and  concentrating its development of Company units in those markets
with sufficient scale. Tricon International has developed new global systems and
tools designed to improve marketing,  operations consistency,  product delivery,
market planning and development and franchise support capability.

     In 1997,  Tricon  International  accounted  for 34 percent of the Company's
total  system  sales,  and  24  percent  of  the  Company's   revenues.   Tricon
International system sales have grown at a compounded rate of 8 percent over the
past five years.

     The  Company has over 9,000  units in the system  outside of the U.S.  This
number has grown at a  compounded  rate of 10 percent  over the past five years.
Approximately 37 percent of the total non-U.S. units are operated by the Company
or joint ventures in which the Company participates.

     Operating Structure

     In all three of its concepts, the Company either operates units or they are
operated by independent franchisees or licensees.  Franchisees can range in size
from individuals owning just a few units to large publicly traded companies.  In
addition,  the Company has  established  international  joint  ventures  between
itself and third  parties.  As of  year-end  1997,  approximately  38 percent of
Tricon's worldwide units were operated by the Company (including approximately 4
percent by joint ventures in which the Company  participates),  approximately 51
percent by franchisees, and approximately 11 percent by licensees.

     Refranchising

     Three years ago, the Company  determined that there was a need to rebalance
the system toward more  franchisee  ownership in order to focus its resources on
what it believes are high growth potential markets where it can more efficiently
leverage  its scale.  Since the  strategy  began in  mid-1995,  the  Company has
refranchised  1,418  units in  1997,  659  units in 1996 and 264  units in 1995,
respectively.  As a result of the Company's refranchising activity, coupled with
new points of distribution added by franchisees and licensees and the program to
upgrade the asset portfolio by closing  under-performing  stores,  the Company's
overall  ownership of total system units (i.e.,  Company and joint venture units
in which the Company participates)  declined 12 percentage points in three years
from  50  percent  at  year-end  1994  to  38  percent  at  year-end  1997.  The
refranchising  program is expected  to  continue,  in the near term,  but as the
Company approaches a  Company/franchisee  balance more consistent with its major
competition,  refranchising  activity is expected to 


substantially decrease over time. The continuation of the program depends on the
Company's  ability to identify  and offer to qualified  franchisees  to purchase
Company restaurants at prices considered by the Company to be appropriate. There
can be no assurance as to whether, or to what extent, management will be able to
effect  refranchising  activities in the future. As of year-end 1997, over 2,300
Company  stores  had been  refranchised  as a part of that  program,  the  large
majority to franchisees that were already in the Tricon system.

  Competitive Advantages

     Global Scale

         Powerful  Concepts in Growing Food Categories.  KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco
Bell are three of the most recognized  restaurant concepts in the world. Each is
the U.S.  leader in terms of market share and number of units in its  respective
food category.  The Company  believes that the near universal  appeal of chicken
and the  enormous  variety  of pizzas  provide a strong  foundation  for  global
concept expansion,  and that the emerging trend towards  Mexican-style foods may
provide additional growth opportunities. In fact, according to a study conducted
by Restaurant Trends in 1997,  chicken,  pizza and Mexican are among the fastest
growing QSR segments in terms of comparable sales.

         Worldwide  Capabilities.  Tricon is the  world's  largest  QSR  Company
measured by system  units and,  based on  available  industry  data,  the second
largest based on system sales. In terms of international  locations, the Company
believes that, as of year-end 1997, its total of over 9,000 system units outside
the U.S. was second only to McDonald's Corporation. The Company has global scale
capabilities in marketing, advertising,  purchasing and research and development
("R&D").  Tricon  believes that its  worldwide  network of Company and franchise
operations  provides  a strong  foundation  from  which to  expand  in  existing
markets,  enter new markets and launch new products and marketing campaigns.  In
many  countries  and  regions,  the  Company  has  the  scale  to use  extensive
television advertising,  an important factor in increasing brand awareness.  The
Company's  scale  enables it to negotiate  superior  marketing  promotions  when
compared to many of its competitors.

         Purchasing/Distribution Network. The Company is a substantial purchaser
of a number of food products, and it believes its scale purchasing  capabilities
provide  it  with  competitive  advantages  such  as its  ability  to  ensure  a
consistent  supply of high  quality  food,  ingredients  and other  supplies  at
attractive prices to all of its restaurant concepts. In 1996, to ensure reliable
sources,  the  Company  consolidated  most  of its  worldwide  food  and  supply
procurement  activities  under  a  new  organization  now  called  Supply  Chain
Management,  which sources, negotiates contracts for and buys specified food and
supplies from hundreds of suppliers in over 70 countries and territories. Supply
Chain Management develops long-term relationships with key vendors. They monitor
market trends and seek to identify and  capitalize  on purchasing  opportunities
that will enhance the Company's  competitive  position.  The principal  products
purchased include beef,  cheese,  chicken  products,  cooking oils, corn, flour,
lettuce,  paper and packaging  materials,  pinto beans, pork,  seasonings,  soft
drink beverage products, and tomato products.

     To ensure the wholesomeness of all food products, suppliers are required to
meet or  exceed  strict  quality  control  standards.  Long-term  contracts  and
long-term  vendor  relationships  have  been  used  to  ensure  availability  of
products.  The Company has also entered into commodity  futures contracts traded
on national  exchanges  with the  objective of reducing  food costs.  While such
hedging activity has historically been done on a limited basis, hedging activity
could  increase in the future if the Company  believes it would  result in lower
total  costs.  The  Company  has  not  experienced  any  significant  continuous
shortages  of  supplies.  Prices  paid for  these  supplies  may be  subject  to
fluctuation;  when  prices  increase,  the  Company  may be able to pass on such
increases to its  customers,  although there is no assurance this can be done in
the future.


     Historically,  many  food  products,  paper  and  packaging  supplies,  and
equipment  used  in  the  operation  of  the  Company's  restaurants  have  been
distributed to individual  Company units by PFS, which was PepsiCo's  restaurant
distribution  operation prior to its disposition in 1997 as described below. PFS
also sold and distributed these same items to many franchised and licensed units
that operate in the three restaurant  systems,  though  principally to Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell franchised/licensed  units in the United States. In May 1997, KFC,
Pizza  Hut and  Taco  Bell  entered  into a five  year  Sales  and  Distribution
Agreement  with PFS to  distribute  the  majority of their food and supplies for
Company stores, subject to PFS maintaining certain performance levels. The Sales
and  Distribution  Agreement  became  effective  upon the closing of the sale by
PepsiCo of the assets and business of PFS to AmeriServe Food Distribution,  Inc.
("AmeriServe"),  a  subsidiary  of  Holberg  Industries,  Inc.,  pursuant  to  a
definitive agreement dated as of May 23, 1997, as amended.  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell and Tricon International have also entered into multi-year  agreements with
Pepsi-Cola Company regarding the sale of Pepsi-Cola beverage products at Company
units.

     Strong Cash Flow

     The Company has generated  significant cash flow from operating  activities
of $810  million,  $713  million  and  $813  million  in 1997,  1996  and  1995,
respectively.  The Company has also generated  significant cash flow through its
global  refranchising  program ($770  million,  $355 million and $165 million in
1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively)  under which it sells Company restaurants to
current  and new  franchisees.  This cash flow has  allowed  the Company to fund
investment  in product  innovation  and quality,  improved  operating  platforms
leading to improved service,  store-level human resources  including  recruiting
and training,  testing  alternative modes of distribution and creative marketing
programs, as well as to reduce its indebtedness.  During 1997, subsequent to the
Spin-off (October 6, 1997), the Company reduced  outstanding  indebtedness under
its revolving credit facility by $115 million and paid down its term loan by $32
million.  The  Company's  primary  investing  activity has been funding  capital
spending in excess of $1.8 billion in the  aggregate  over the last three years.
The  Company  believes  that it will be  able to  continue  to fund  significant
capital  spending  despite the higher  cash debt  service  costs  related to its
post-October, 1997 debt capitalization.

     Certain Core Competencies

         Marketing.  The  Company  believes  that it has  developed  significant
advertising  capabilities and has been able to generate  substantial interest in
and excitement around its brands.  Many of the Company's  advertising  campaigns
have been  recognized in the past with awards  acknowledging  their  creativity,
execution  or  achievements  in creating or  maintaining  brand  awareness.  The
Company's  size  enables  it to be a  leading  advertiser  in the  food  service
industry,  which it can  leverage  to achieve  efficiency  in  national  network
television  advertising,  supplemented with local market television advertising.
As an example,  on a consolidated  basis,  the Company was, as of year-end 1997,
one of the top ten largest buyers of U.S.  television  network media time. Prior
to consolidation,  each of the three Tricon brands ranked in the top 55 for this
purpose.

     Tricon's four operating  companies  implement  periodic  promotions as they
deem  appropriate or desirable in order to maintain and increase their sales and
unit profits.  They also rely on radio,  newspaper and other print  advertising,
in-store point of purchase advertising,  and direct mail and newspaper couponing
programs, to attract customers and encourage the purchase of their products. The
Company has developed and utilizes  sophisticated  marketing research techniques
to measure customer satisfaction and consumer trends.



         Quality  Assurance.  The  Quality  Assurance  Departments  at  each  of
Tricon's  four  operating  companies  help ensure that the systems'  restaurants
provide high quality,  wholesome  food products in clean and safe  environments.
The  systems'  restaurants  are  required  to buy  food  supplies,  ingredients,
seasonings, and equipment only from approved suppliers, who are required to meet
or exceed  system  standards  designed  to ensure  product  quality,  safety and
consistency.  From time to time, the Quality Assurance  Departments  inspect the
facilities of their  suppliers and request samples for testing and other quality
control  monitoring  and  measures.  Many of these  suppliers,  such as  poultry
producers,  are  also  subject  to  some  government  inspection.  In  addition,
representatives of the Quality Assurance Departments visit restaurants from time
to time to  ensure  that  food is  properly  stored,  handled  and  prepared  in
accordance with prescribed  standards and specifications,  as well as to provide
training in food safety and sanitation measures to the restaurant operators. The
Quality  Assurance  Departments are also  responsible  for remaining  current on
issues related to food safety and interacting with regulatory agencies as may be
required or desirable on these matters.

     United States Growth Opportunities

     Tricon  believes it has many  opportunities  to achieve growth in sales per
unit and distribution in its U.S. business due to the following:

         Daypart Expansion.  The Company's strengths in market research and R&D,
combined  with  underdeveloped  dayparts  (segments of each business day) in all
three core  concepts  provide an  opportunity  to increase the average sales per
unit.  According to CREST,  in 1997 in the U.S.,  almost  two-thirds  of KFC and
approximately  three-quarters  of Pizza Hut U.S.  system  store  sales  occurred
during the dinner  occasion.  At Taco Bell,  approximately  half of U.S.  system
store sales occurred during the lunch occasion,  with about 45 percent occurring
at dinner and the remainder during snacking hours.

         Channel  Expansion.   The  Company  believes  that  significant  growth
opportunities  exist with respect to delivery services.  The Company's products,
especially  chicken  and  pizza,  are well  suited  to  delivery  because  their
relatively  long holding  times allow them to be delivered hot and ready to eat.
Today,  Pizza Hut has a well-developed  delivery system and 365 KFC units in the
U.S. currently offer some delivery services.  In addition,  the Company believes
there is  opportunity  to  innovate  with  respect to the type of unit that best
meets  consumer  needs.  Some  of  the  alternative   channels  that  are  under
development  include  non-traditional  units such as Taco Bell Express in venues
such as shopping malls, food courts,  airports,  gas and convenience stores, and
schools.

         Multi-Branding.  The  Company is  actively  pursuing  the  strategy  of
multi-branding,  whereby two or more of its  concepts  are  operated in a single
restaurant  unit. As of year-end 1997,  there were 349 system units housing more
than one  concept.  By combining  two or more of its  concepts in one  location,
particularly  those  that have  complementary  daypart  strengths,  the  Company
believes it can  generate  higher sales  volumes from such units,  significantly
improve returns on per unit  investment,  and enhance its ability to penetrate a
greater  number  of trade  areas  throughout  the  United  States.  Through  the
consolidation of market planning  initiatives  across all three of its concepts,
the  Company  is  establishing  multi-year  development  plans by trade  area to
optimize  franchise and company  penetration  of all three brands and to improve
returns on its existing asset base. The Company  intends to build  approximately
thirty new  multi-brand  units in the U.S.  during 1998.  The Company  currently
believes  that  there  may  be  as  many  as  3,900  system   multi-brand   unit
opportunities in the U.S. The development of these units may be limited, in some
instances, by prior development and/or territory rights granted to franchisees.





     International Growth Opportunities

         Focus on Key  Growth  Markets.  Following  the  Spin-off,  the  Company
redirected its  international  ownership  strategy to focus on building  Company
stores in what it believes are high growth  potential  markets where it can more
efficiently leverage its scale, while increasing  franchise  penetration through
franchise  development and refranchising in other  international  markets. As an
example, the Company has demonstrated  considerable success in penetrating Asian
emerging  markets  with some of its  highest  volume  stores in the world  being
operated in China.  In the future,  the Company  intends to focus a  significant
portion of its new unit capital on this and other potential growth markets.

         Underdeveloped Presence.  Although the Company and its franchisees have
established a presence in 103 countries and territories, many of these countries
are still  underpenetrated  considering not only population size and growth, but
also per capita  purchasing power. Even in countries which have populations with
similar per capita  purchasing  power, the ratio of stores per million people is
still far  below  that  found in the U.S.,  and the  Company  believes  there is
significant  opportunity to leverage an increasing demand for convenient,  fully
prepared foods.

     Scale Advantages. Tricon International has the ability to leverage not only
the  scale  advantages  of  administration,  purchasing  and  R&D;  but also the
experience of the  Company's  U.S.  operations  to quickly  identify new product
opportunities for local markets.

     Human Resources and Management

     The  Company  believes  that  high  quality,   customer-focused  restaurant
management  is critical to its  long-term  success.  It also  believes  that its
leadership  position,  strong  results-oriented  and  recognition  culture,  and
various training and incentive programs help attract and retain highly motivated
restaurant  general  managers  ("RGMs") who are committed to providing  superior
customer  satisfaction and outstanding  business  results.  The Company believes
that having a high quality  restaurant manager in a unit for a meaningful tenure
is one of the most important  factors in a unit's  ability to achieve  excellent
results in the areas of sales, profits and overall guest satisfaction.

     The Company's  restaurant  management  structure varies by concept and unit
size. Generally,  each Company restaurant is led by an RGM, together with one or
more assistant managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume
of the  restaurant.  Each  restaurant  usually  has  between  10  and 35  hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company's four operating companies
each issue detailed manuals covering all aspects of their respective operations,
including food handling and product preparation  procedures,  safety and quality
issues, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting procedures. The
restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each
unit and for ensuring  compliance  with  operating  standards.  RGMs efforts are
monitored by area managers or market coaches,  who work with  approximately nine
to eleven restaurants.  The Company's  restaurants are visited from time to time
by various senior operators within their respective organizations to help ensure
adherence to system standards.

     RGMs attend and complete  their  respective  operating  company's  required
training  programs.  These  programs  consist  of initial  training,  as well as
additional  continuing  development and training programs that may be offered or
required from time to time.  Initial manager training programs generally last at
least six weeks  and  emphasize  leadership,  business  management,  supervisory
skills (including training,  coaching, and recruiting),  product preparation and
production,  safety, quality control,  customer service,  labor management,  and
equipment maintenance.





     Sale of Non-Core Concepts

     In late 1996,  the  Company  set a strategy  to focus  human and  financial
resources on growing the sales and  profitability of its three core QSR concepts
- -- KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell. As a result, the non-core restaurant businesses
of California Pizza Kitchen, Chevys Mexican Restaurant,  D'Angelo Sandwich Shop,
East Side Mario's and Hot 'n Now were sold in 1997. The operations of these five
non-core  businesses were not material to the operations of the Tricon operating
companies.

     Information about the five non-core  businesses is included in Management's
Discussion and Analysis and the related  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and
footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 18 through 36; and Part II, Item 8, pages 36
through 60, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     Trademarks

     The Company has  numerous  registered  trademarks  and service  marks.  The
Company  believes  that  many of  these  marks,  including  its  Kentucky  Fried
Chicken(R), Pizza Hut(R) and Taco Bell(R) trademarks, have significant value and
are  materially  important to its business.  The  Company's  policy is to pursue
registration  of its  important  trademarks  whenever  possible  and  to  oppose
vigorously  any  infringement  of its  trademarks.  The  use  of  the  Company's
trademarks by  franchisees  and licensees has been  authorized in KFC, Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell  franchise  and  license  agreements.  Under  current law and with
proper use, the Company's  rights in its trademarks can last  indefinitely.  The
Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment, which, while valuable,
are not material to its business.

     Working Capital Practices

     Information  about the Company's  working capital  practices is included in
Management's  Discussion and Analysis in Part II, Item 7, pages 18 through 36 of
this Form 10-K.

     Customers

     The  Company's  business is not dependent  upon a single  customer or small
group of customers.

     Seasonal Operations

     The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material
degree.

     Backlog Orders

     Company restaurants have no backlog orders.

     Government Contracts

     No material  portion of the Company's  business is subject to renegotiation
of profits or  termination of contracts or  subcontracts  at the election of the
United States government.



     Competition

     The  overall  food  service  industry  and the QSR  segment  are  intensely
competitive  with  respect  to  food  quality,   price,  service,   convenience,
restaurant  location and concept.  The restaurant  business is often affected by
changes in consumer  tastes;  national,  regional or local economic  conditions;
currency  fluctuations;  demographic trends;  traffic patterns; the type, number
and location of competing  restaurants;  and disposable  purchasing  power.  The
Company competes within each market with national and regional chains as well as
locally-owned  restaurants,  not only for customers, but also for management and
hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.

     Research and Development

     The Company operates R&D facilities in Louisville,  Kentucky, Dallas, Texas
and Irvine,  California.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company spent $21 million,
$20 million and $17 million, respectively, on R&D activities.

     Government Regulation

     United States.  The Company is subject to various Federal,  state and local
laws affecting its business.  Each of the Company's restaurants must comply with
licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities,  which include
health,  sanitation,  safety and fire agencies in the state or  municipality  in
which the  restaurant  is located.  In  addition,  each of the Tricon  operating
companies  must comply with various  state laws that  regulate  the  franchisor/
franchisee  relationship.  To  date,  the  Company  has not  been  significantly
affected  by any  difficulty,  delay or failure to obtain  required  licenses or
approvals.

     As  a  result  of  the  Spin-off  and  the  Company's  ensuing  deficit  in
shareholders'  equity,  the  Tricon  operating  companies  will be  required  in
approximately  15 states,  for the first time, to obtain state  registration  of
their franchise offerings.  Consequently,  there may be short periods of time in
some or all of the affected  states  during which the planned  sales of existing
units pursuant to the Company's  refranchising  program, and the issuance of new
franchises  and  licenses,  will be delayed while this  registration  process is
proceeding.  The Company intends to take all reasonable steps to accelerate this
registration  process, and does not anticipate any material delays in unit sales
under  its  refranchising  program  as a  result  of the  registration  process.
However,  if the delay in the registration  process is longer than  anticipated,
there is a risk that the Company's  ability to sell the planned  number of units
in 1998 under its refranchising program could be adversely affected.

     A small  portion of Pizza  Hut's net sales is  attributable  to the sale of
beer and wine.  A license  is  required  in most  cases for each site that sells
alcoholic  beverages  (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and  licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  Regulations  governing the sale of
alcoholic beverages relate to many aspects of restaurant  operations,  including
the minimum  age of patrons  and  employees,  hours of  operation,  advertising,
wholesale purchasing,  inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of
alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant which sells alcoholic beverages
to obtain or retain  these  licenses  may  adversely  affect  such  restaurant's
revenues and operating profits.

     The  Company  is also  subject  to  Federal  and  state  minimum  wage laws
governing such matters as overtime,  tip credits and working  conditions.  Since
the bulk of the Company's employees are paid on an hourly basis at rates related
to the Federal minimum wage,  increases in the minimum wage could  significantly
increase the Company's labor costs.

     The  Company is also  subject to Federal  and state child labor laws which,
among  other  things,  prohibit  the use of  certain  "hazardous  equipment"  by
employees  18  years  of age or  younger.  The  Company  has  not to  date  been
materially adversely affected by such laws.


     The Company is subject to Federal,  state and local  environmental laws and
regulations;  however,  such  requirements have not had a material effect on the
Company's  operations.  The  Company  continues  to monitor its  facilities  for
compliance with the Americans With  Disabilities Act ("ADA") in order to conform
to its  requirements.  Under the ADA,  the  Company  could be required to expend
funds to modify its restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable
accommodation for the employment of, disabled  persons.  Such  expenditures,  if
required, would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations.

         International.  Internationally,  the Company's restaurants are subject
to national and local laws and regulations  which are similar to those affecting
the Company's domestic  restaurants,  including laws and regulations  concerning
labor,  health,  sanitation and safety.  The international  restaurants are also
subject to tariffs and  regulations  on imported  commodities  and equipment and
laws regulating foreign investment.  International compliance with environmental
requirements  has not had a material  adverse effect on the Company's  earnings,
capital expenditures or competitive position.

     Employees

     At year-end  1997,  the Company  employed  approximately  350,000  persons,
approximately  75 to 80 percent of whom were part-time  employees.  More than 60
percent of the  Company's  employees  are  employed  in the United  States.  The
Company  believes that it provides  working  conditions  and  compensation  that
compare favorably with those of its principal competitors. Employees, other than
restaurant  management and certain  corporate  employees,  are paid on an hourly
basis.  Less than 1 percent  of the  Company's  U.S.  employees  are  covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  The Company's non-U.S.  employees are subject
to numerous labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in
which the Company operates.  The Company considers its employee  relations to be
good.

     (d) Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations

     Financial  information  about foreign and domestic  markets is incorporated
herein by reference from Selected  Financial Data,  Management's  Discussion and
Analysis and the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part
II,  Item 6, page 17; Part II, Item 7, pages 18 through 36; and Part II, Item 8,
pages 36 through 60, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

Item 2. Properties.

     As of year-end 1997, Tricon operating  companies owned  approximately 3,000
and leased  approximately 4,800 restaurants,  delivery/carryout  units and other
food  service  units  in the  United  States;  and  Tricon  International  owned
approximately  500 and leased  approximately  1,800 additional units outside the
United States.  Operating company restaurants in the United States which are not
owned are  generally  leased for initial  terms of 15 or 20 years and  generally
have renewal options;  however, Pizza Hut delivery/carryout  units in the United
States generally are leased for  significantly  shorter initial terms with short
renewal  options.  Joint ventures in which operating  companies are partners and
other  consolidated  entities own or lease  approximately  1,000  restaurants or
units outside the United States. Tricon leases Tricon  International's and Pizza
Hut's corporate  headquarters in Dallas,  Texas.  Taco Bell leases its corporate
headquarters in Irvine, California and KFC owns its corporate headquarters and a
research facility in Louisville, Kentucky. In addition, Tricon owns major office
facilities  in  Wichita,  Kansas and leases an office  facility  for  accounting
services in  Albuquerque,  New Mexico.  The  Wichita,  Kansas  facility is under
contract  for sale during  1998,  when primary  operations  conducted  there are
relocated to  Louisville,  Kentucky and Dallas,  Texas.  Additional  information
about  the  Company's  properties  is  included  in the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 36 through 60, of this Form
10-K.


     The Company  believes that its properties  are in good operating  condition
and are suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

     The  Company  is subject to  various  claims and  contingencies  related to
lawsuits, taxes, real estate, environmental and other matters arising out of the
normal  course of business.  The  following is a brief  description  of the more
significant  of these  categories  of lawsuits  and other  matters.  The Company
believes  that the  ultimate  liability,  if any,  in excess of amounts  already
provided for, is not likely to have a material  adverse  effect on the Company's
annual results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     Franchising

     A  substantial  number  of the  Company's  restaurants  are  franchised  to
independent  business people operating under  arrangements with the Company.  In
the course of the franchise relationship,  occasional disputes arise between the
Company and its  franchisees  relating to a broad range of subjects,  including,
without  limitation,  quality,  service,  and  cleanliness  issues,  contentions
regarding grants, transfers or terminations of franchises,  territorial disputes
and delinquent payments.

     Employees

     At any given time, the Company employs  thousands of persons,  including in
its  restaurants.  In addition,  thousands of persons,  from time to time,  seek
employment  with the  Company and its  restaurants.  In the  ordinary  course of
business,  disputes arise regarding employee hiring,  compensation,  termination
and promotion practices.

     Like some other large retail  employers,  Taco Bell recently has been faced
with  allegations of purported  class-wide wage and hour  violations.  As stated
above,  the Company  believes that these cases are not material to the Company's
annual results, financial condition or cash flows.

     Customers

     The Company's  restaurants  serve a large and diverse  cross-section of the
public and in the course of serving so many  people,  disputes  arise  regarding
products,  service,  accidents  and other  matters  typical of large  restaurant
systems such as those of the Company.

     Trademarks

     The Company has registered  trademarks and service marks, many of which are
of material importance to the Company's business. From time to time, the Company
may  become  involved  in  litigation  to  defend  and  protect  its use of such
registered marks.





Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     None.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The executive  officers of the Company as of March 19, 1998, and their ages
and current positions as of that date are as follows:


 Name                    Age         Position
 ----                    ---         --------

Andrall E. Pearson       72      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
                                   Officer

David C. Novak           45      Vice Chairman of the Board and President

Robert C. Lowes          52      Chief Financial Officer

Christian L. Campbell    47      Senior Vice President, General Counsel and     
                                   Secretary

Robert L. Carleton       57      Senior Vice President and Controller

Jonathan D. Blum         39      Senior Vice President - Public Affairs

Gregg R. Dedrick         38      Chief People Officer

Sandra S. Wijnberg       41      Senior Vice President - Treasurer

Peter A. Bassi           48      President, Tricon Restaurants International

Jeffrey A. Moody         39      President and Chief Concept Officer, KFC U.S.A.

Michael S. Rawlings      43      President and Chief Concept Officer, Pizza Hut 
                                   U.S.A.

Peter C. Waller          43      President and Chief Concept Officer, Taco Bell 
                                   U.S.A.

Aylwin B. Lewis          43      Chief Operating Officer, Pizza Hut U.S.A.

Thomas E. Davin          40      Chief Operating Officer, Taco Bell U.S.A.

Charles E. Rawley, III   47      Chief Operating Officer, KFC U.S.A.

     Andrall E. Pearson became Chairman of the Board of Tricon  effective August
15, 1997, and Chief Executive  Officer of Tricon effective October 21, 1997. Mr.
Pearson previously served as an operating partner of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, a
leveraged  buy-out firm, from 1993 to 1997. He was President and Chief Operating
Officer of PepsiCo, Inc. from 1971 through 1984 and served on PepsiCo's Board of
Directors  for 26  years,  retiring  in April  1996.  From 1985 to 1993 he was a
tenured  professor at Harvard Business  School.  Mr. Pearson is also a member of
the Board of Directors  of Tricon,  as well as a member of the Boards of Alliant
Food Services,  Inc., DBT On-Line,  Inc.,  Kinko's,  Inc., May Department Stores
Company,  and  Travelers  Group  Inc.  He is  also a  trustee  of the  New  York
University  Medical Center and the Good Samaritan  Medical Center in Palm Beach,
Florida.


     David C. Novak is Vice  Chairman of the Board and  President of Tricon.  He
has served in this position since October 1997. Mr. Novak  previously  served as
Group President and Chief Executive Officer,  KFC and Pizza Hut from August 1996
to July 1997.  Mr.  Novak  joined  Pizza Hut in 1986 as Senior  Vice  President,
Marketing.  In 1990, he became Executive Vice President,  Marketing and National
Sales,  for  Pepsi-Cola  Company.  In 1992 he became  Chief  Operating  Officer,
Pepsi-Cola  North America,  and in 1994 he became  President and Chief Executive
Officer of KFC North America.

     Robert C. Lowes is Chief Financial Officer of Tricon. He has served in this
position  since  August 1997.  From July 1995 to July 1997,  Mr. Lowes served as
Chief Executive  Officer of Burger King, a subsidiary of Grand  Metropolitan,  a
food  and  consumer  products  company.  Before  becoming  Burger  King's  Chief
Executive  Officer,  Mr. Lowes held several  positions with Grand  Metropolitan,
including Deputy Chief Financial  Officer,  Chief Financial  Officer of its Food
Sector,  and Chief Executive  Officer of its European Foods division.  Mr. Lowes
joined Grand Metropolitan in 1989 from Philip Morris and General Foods, where he
served in a number of  senior  finance  capacities,  including  Vice  President,
Controller  of Philip  Morris,  and Group  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial
Officer of Oscar Mayer.

     Christian  L.  Campbell  is Senior  Vice  President,  General  Counsel  and
Secretary of Tricon.  He has served in this position since  September 1997. From
1995 to September 1997, Mr.  Campbell  served as Senior Vice President,  General
Counsel and Secretary of Owens  Corning,  a building  products  company.  Before
joining Owens Corning,  Mr. Campbell  served as Vice President,  General Counsel
and Secretary of Nalco  Chemical  Company,  in Naperville,  Illinois,  from 1990
through 1994.

     Robert L. Carleton is Senior Vice  President and  Controller of Tricon.  He
has served in this position since May 1997. Mr.  Carleton  previously  served as
Senior Vice  President  and  Controller  for PepsiCo  from August 1982 to August
1997.

     Jonathan D. Blum is Senior Vice President - Public  Affairs for Tricon.  He
has served in this position since July 1997. Mr. Blum previously  served as Vice
President of Public Affairs for Taco Bell U.S.A.,  a position that he held since
joining Taco Bell in 1993.

     Gregg R. Dedrick is Chief People Officer for Tricon.  He has served in this
position  since  July  1997.  Mr.  Dedrick  previously  served  as  Senior  Vice
President,  Human  Resources,  for Pizza Hut and KFC, a  position  he assumed in
1996.  Mr.  Dedrick  joined   Pepsi-Cola   Company  in  1981  and  held  various
personnel-related  positions  with  Pepsi-Cola  from 1981 to 1994.  In 1994,  he
became Vice  President,  Human  Resources  for Pizza Hut,  and in 1995 he became
Senior Vice President of Human Resources for KFC.

     Sandra S. Wijnberg is Senior Vice  President  and Treasurer of Tricon.  She
has served in this position since August 1997. Ms. Wijnberg previously served as
Senior Vice  President  of Finance and Chief  Financial  Officer of KFC from May
1996 to August  1997.  Ms.  Wijnberg  joined  PepsiCo in 1994 and served as Vice
President,  Corporate Finance and Assistant Treasurer until joining KFC. She was
previously a Principal,  Investment  Banking  Division,  of Morgan Stanley & Co.
from 1985 to 1994, and, prior to that, was an Associate,  Corporate Finance,  at
Shearson Lehman Brothers from 1982 to 1985.

     Peter A. Bassi is President,  Tricon Restaurants  International  since July
1997. Mr. Bassi served as Executive Vice President, Asia, of PepsiCo Restaurants
International  from February 1996 to July 1997. He joined Pepsi-Cola  Company in
1972 and served in various  management  positions  at  Frito-Lay,  Pizza Hut and
PepsiCo Food Service International.  He served as Senior Vice President, Finance
and Chief Financial Officer at Taco Bell from 1987 to 1994. From 1995 to 1996 he
served  as  Senior  Vice  President  and  Chief  Financial  Officer  at  PepsiCo
Restaurants International.


     Jeffrey A. Moody is President and Chief Concept Officer,  KFC U.S.A.  since
July 1997. Mr. Moody served as Senior Vice  President,  Operations,  for PepsiCo
Restaurants  International from November 1996 to June 1997.  Previously,  he was
Vice President,  Operations for PepsiCo Restaurants International from June 1995
to November 1996. Mr. Moody joined Pizza Hut in 1987 and held various management
positions prior to those mentioned above.

     Michael S. Rawlings is President and Chief Concept Officer, Pizza Hut U.S.A
since July 1997. From 1991 to 1996, Mr.  Rawlings served as Chairman,  President
and Chief Executive Officer of DDB Needham Worldwide Dallas Group, a position he
held following the merger of Tracy-Locke, Inc. into DDB Needham. Previously, Mr.
Rawlings was General Manager and Chief Operating Officer of Tracy-Locke, Inc., a
position he assumed in 1989.

     Peter C. Waller is President  and Chief Concept  Officer,  Taco Bell U.S.A.
since July 1997. Mr. Waller served as Senior Vice President of Marketing of Taco
Bell from December 1995 to June 1997. He previously  held the position of Senior
Vice President of Marketing for KFC U.S.A. from August 1994 to December 1995. He
joined PepsiCo in 1990 as Managing Director for Western Europe, and subsequently
spent two years as Regional Marketing Director for KFC for the South Pacific and
South Africa.

     Aylwin B. Lewis is Chief Operating  Officer of Pizza Hut U.S.A.  since July
1997. Mr. Lewis previously served as Senior Vice President, Operations for Pizza
Hut, a position he assumed in 1996.  Mr.  Lewis joined KFC in 1991 as a Regional
General  Manager.  He served  in  various  positions  at KFC,  including  Senior
Director of  Franchising  and Vice  President of  restaurant  Support  Services,
becoming  Division Vice  President,  Operations for KFC in 1993, and Senior Vice
President, New Concepts for KFC in 1995.

     Thomas E. Davin is Chief Operating  Officer of Taco Bell U.S.A.  since July
1997. Mr. Davin  previously  served as Vice President,  Operations  Services for
Taco Bell, a position he assumed in 1996.  Mr. Davin joined  Pepsi-Co in 1991 as
Director,  Mergers and  Acquisitions.  He served as Zone Vice President for Taco
Bell from 1993 to 1996.

     Charles E. Rawley,  III is Chief Operating Officer of KFC U.S.A. Mr. Rawley
joined KFC in 1985 as a Director of  Operations.  He served as Vice President of
Operations for the Southwest,  West, Northeast,  and Mid-Atlantic Divisions from
1988 to 1994, when he became Senior Vice President, Concept Development for KFC.
Mr. Rawley assumed his current position in 1995.

     Executive  officers are elected  annually by and serve at the discretion of
the Board of Directors.

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Stock  and  Related  Stockholder
     Matters.

     The Company's common stock trades under the symbol YUM and is listed on the
New York Stock Exchange.

     The high,  low and closing prices for a share of Tricon common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange,  as reported by The Dow Jones  News/Retrieval  Service,
for the fourth quarter of 1997 (from the date of the Spin-off through the end of
the year) were $36.250, $27.875 and $28.313, respectively.

     The number of  shareholders  of record of the Company's  common stock as of
March 19, 1998 was 177,926.



     Under the terms of its bank  credit  facility,  the  Company  is  currently
limited in its  ability  to pay  dividends  on common  stock.  As a result,  the
Company does not  presently  intend to pay  dividends on its common  stock,  but
instead to use a portion of  earnings to pay down  existing  debt under the bank
credit facility, and to reinvest remaining earnings back into the business.


Item 6. Selected Financial Data.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Selected Financial Data
(in millions except share and unit amounts)
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


N/A - Not Applicable.

The  historical   consolidated  financial  data  above  includes  TRICON  Global
Restaurants,  Inc. and  Subsidiaries as if we had been an independent,  publicly
owned company for all periods  presented.  The selected financial data should be
read in conjunction  with the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements and the Notes
thereto.

(1)  The pro forma  data is  derived  from the  unaudited  pro  forma  financial
     information included in Note 16 to the Consolidated  Financial  Statements.
     The pro forma  data does not  purport  to  represent  what our  results  of
     operations  would have been had we  operated  as an  independent,  publicly
     owned  company  nor does it give  effect to any  events  other  than  those
     described.  The pro forma data also does not purport to project our results
     of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The pro forma
     data reflects  adjustments to eliminate our Non-core Businesses disposed of
     in 1997 and to  reflect  the  estimated  additional  interest  expense  and
     general,  administrative and other expenses which we would have incurred as
     an independent, publicly owned company.

(2)  Fiscal year 1994 consisted of 53 weeks. The fifty-third week increased 1994
     revenues by $172 and earnings by approximately $23 ($14 after-tax).

(3)  Includes  combined  facility  actions  and  unusual  charges  of $421 ($322
     after-tax),  $209 ($168 after-tax) and $402 ($295 after-tax) for 1997, 1996
     and  1995,  respectively.  On a pro forma  basis,  1997  includes  combined
     facility  actions and unusual  charges of $367 ($288 after-tax or $1.90 per
     share). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations.

     Introduction

     On October 6, 1997 (the "Spin-off Date"), the worldwide  operations of KFC,
Pizza  Hut and Taco  Bell  (the  "Core  Business(es)")  became  an  independent,
publicly  owned  restaurant  company  known as TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.
through a spin-off from our former parent,  PepsiCo, Inc. (the "Spin-off").  See
Notes 2, 3 and 4. The Spin-off  marked the beginning of a company focused solely
on the restaurant business and our three  well-recognized  brands which together
have more  outlets  worldwide  than any other single  quick  service  restaurant
("QSR")  company.  Separately,  each brand ranks in the top ten among QSR chains
with  regard to U.S.  system  sales and units.  Internationally,  our 9,000 plus
units make us the second largest QSR company outside the United States.

     This Management's Analysis is structured in four major sections.  The first
section  provides  an overview  and  focuses on items that either  significantly
impact comparability or are anticipated to significantly impact future operating
results.  The second  analyzes  results of  operations;  first on a consolidated
basis and then separately for our U.S. and international  businesses.  The final
sections address consolidated cash flows and financial condition.  Discussion of
certain market risks and our cautionary statements follow these major sections.

     This  Management's   Analysis  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the
Consolidated  Financial Statements on pages 36-60 and the Cautionary  Statements
on page 35. All note  references  herein refer to the Notes to the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements on pages 41-60.  Tabular amounts are displayed in millions
except per share and unit count amounts, or as specifically identified.  All pro
forma earnings per share calculations  assume that the 152 million shares issued
at Spin-off had been outstanding for all periods presented.

     Worldwide Marketplace

     Our worldwide  businesses  operate in highly  competitive  markets that are
subject to both global and local economic  conditions,  including the effects of
inflation,  commodity price and currency fluctuations,  governmental actions and
political instability and its related dislocations.  Our operating and investing
strategies  are designed,  where  possible,  to mitigate  these factors  through
focused actions on several fronts, including: (a) enhancing the appeal and value
of our products through brand promotion, product innovation, quality improvement
and prudent pricing actions;  (b) providing excellent service to customers;  (c)
increasing  worldwide  availability  of our products;  (d) forming  alliances to
increase  market  presence  and  utilize  resources  more  efficiently;  and (e)
containing costs through  efficient and effective  purchasing,  distribution and
administrative processes.

     In 1997, as a percentage of our Core Businesses, our international business
accounted for 34% of system sales,  almost 25% of Company  revenues,  and 22% of
operating profit before unallocated expenses,  foreign exchange losses, facility
actions and unusual  charges.  We believe that,  despite the inherent  risks and
generally   higher  general  and   administrative   costs  of  operations,   key
international  markets will continue to be high priority  investment targets due
to their substantial growth potential.  It is, therefore,  important to consider
that  movements  in  currency  exchange  rates  not  only  result  in a  related
translation impact on our earnings,  but also can result in significant economic
impacts  that affect  operating  results.  Changes in  exchange  rates are often
linked to variability in real growth,  inflation,  interest rates,  governmental
actions and other factors. In addition,  material changes may cause us to adjust
our financing,  investing and operating strategies; for example,  promotions and
product strategies,  pricing and decisions concerning capital spending, sourcing
of raw  materials and packaging  (see  discussion on Asia below).  The following
paragraphs  describe  the effect of  currency  exchange  rate  movements  on our
reported results.



     As currency exchange rates change,  translation of the income statements of
our   international   businesses  into  U.S.   dollars  affects   year-over-year
comparability of operating  results.  Material effects on comparability of sales
and operating  profit arising from  translation  are identified in  Management's
Analysis of operating results. By definition,  these translation effects exclude
the impact of businesses in highly inflationary countries,  where the accounting
functional currency is the U.S. dollar.

     Changes in currency  exchange  rates can also  result in  reported  foreign
exchange  gains and  losses,  which are  included  as a  component  of  general,
administrative  and other expenses.  We reported a net foreign  exchange loss of
$16 million in 1997, $5 million in 1996 and $1 million in 1995.  These  reported
amounts include  translation  gains and losses arising from  remeasurement  into
U.S.  dollars of the monetary  assets and  liabilities  of  businesses in highly
inflationary  countries  as well as  transaction  gains and losses.  Transaction
gains and losses arise from monetary  assets such as receivables  and short-term
interest-bearing investments as well as payables (including debt) denominated in
currencies other than a business unit's functional currency.

     Asian Economic Events

     Asian operations in such countries as China,  Japan,  Korea,  Singapore and
Thailand,  among others, comprised approximately 37% of our international system
sales for 1997. The economic turmoil and weakening of currencies throughout much
of Asia  against the U.S.  dollar  during  1997 has  created a difficult  retail
environment  and has had an adverse  effect on our operating  results  beginning
late  in  1997.   Despite  this,  we  will  continue  to  seek  out   investment
opportunities in certain parts of Asia. Lessons learned,  in the recent past, in
other  countries  such as  Mexico  in 1996  and 1995  have  helped  us  identify
opportunities  to mitigate the impact of these  economic  events.  These include
working  with our  suppliers  to reduce  costs and  increasing  the value of our
product offerings. The complexities of the international environment in which we
operate make it difficult to  accurately  predict the ongoing  effect of foreign
currency movements on results of operations. Related effects will be reported in
our financial statements as they become known and are estimable.

     Selected highlights of our recent operating results in Asia are as follows:


(a)  % B(W) as used above and  throughout  this  Management's  Analysis  means %
     Better (Worse).

     Year 2000

     We have  established  an  enterprise-wide  program to prepare our  computer
systems and  applications  for the Year 2000. We are utilizing both internal and
external  resources  to  identify,  correct  and test the  systems for Year 2000
issues.  We  anticipate  that the  majority  of domestic  reprogramming  will be
complete by December  1998,  and testing  efforts will be concluded in the first
quarter of 1999.  TRICON  Restaurants  International  has initiated a program to
assess  and  correct   computer   systems  for  the  Year  2000  in  five  major
international  markets.  We  intend  to  distribute  this  program  to all other
international  markets  in early  1998.  We  anticipate  that  business-critical
international systems will be reprogrammed and tested by June 1999.


     Because third party failures could have a material impact on our ability to
conduct business,  confirmations are being requested from our processing vendors
and suppliers to certify that plans are being developed to address the Year 2000
issues.  An  assessment  of our  franchisee  readiness  is also in  process.  We
anticipate that in the second quarter of 1998,  information  will be provided to
all franchisees  regarding the potential business risks associated with the Year
2000 issues.

     Testing  and  conversion  of systems and  applications  is expected to cost
$40-$45 million from 1997 through 1999. Of these costs, approximately $4 million
had been incurred by year-end 1997 and  approximately $35 million is expected to
be  incurred  in 1998.  All costs are  expected  to be funded by cash flows from
operations.

     Though the benefits of the fourth quarter unusual charge,  discussed below,
are expected to be  significant,  we expect that they will be offset in the near
term by the negative impact of fluctuations in Asian  currencies and incremental
spending related to Year 2000 issues.

     Other Factors Affecting Comparability

     In addition to the above identified near-term risks in our Asian businesses
and costs related to Year 2000 issues, we believe that certain items included in
1997 results of operations are either  unlikely to recur in 1998 or are expected
to  recur  in  significantly  different  magnitudes,  thereby  affecting  future
comparability of results.  These items,  more fully described in the appropriate
sections  of  Management's  Analysis,  include  the $24  million in special  KFC
franchise  contract  renewal fees  primarily  from renewals in the first half of
1997,  which will not recur in 1998. In addition,  1998 total  facility  actions
after-tax  net gain is  expected  to be  approximately  half of the level of the
after-tax net gain recognized in 1997,  excluding the fourth quarter charge, due
to the  inclusion  in the second  quarter of 1997 of the  tax-free  gain of $100
million related to the  refranchising  of our restaurants in New Zealand through
an initial public offering. During 1997, the non-core businesses, defined below,
generated  approximately  $10 million ($8 million  after-tax)  of income  before
unusual charges through their dates of disposal in 1997 which will not recur.

     As more  fully  discussed  in Notes 3 and 16, we believe  that our  ongoing
corporate   unallocated  annual  general  and  administrative   expenses  as  an
independent,  publicly  owned  entity will exceed the  annualized  amount of the
PepsiCo allocation by approximately $20 million.  This expected increase will be
partially  offset by non-recurring  TRICON start-up costs of  approximately  $14
million which were incurred in the last three quarters of 1997. Our net interest
expense is expected to be $40 million to $50 million  higher in 1998,  driven by
the higher outstanding debt levels and higher expected weighted average interest
rates.  The  increased  general and  administrative  and interest  expenses will
primarily be incurred over the first three quarters of 1998.

     Subsequent to year-end,  we agreed to sell our shared services  facility in
Wichita,  Kansas.  We will  relocate  most of our Wichita  operations to Dallas,
Texas and Louisville,  Kentucky.  Although we anticipate a gain on the sale when
the transaction closes,  currently scheduled for the fourth quarter of 1998, the
majority of the  relocation  and other  costs  related to the  decision  will be
incurred in earlier  quarters of 1998.  The full year net impact of the sale and
relocation is expected to be immaterial.

     Store Portfolio Perspectives

     In the fourth  quarter,  we announced a $530 million  unusual  charge ($425
million  after-tax).  See Note 4.  The  charge  included  (1)  costs of  closing
underperforming  stores during 1998, primarily at Pizza Hut and internationally;
(2) reduction to fair market value,  less costs to sell, of the carrying amounts
of  restaurants  we intend to  refranchise  in 1998;  (3)  impairment of certain
restaurants intended to be used in the business; (4) impairment of certain joint
venture investments; and (5) related personnel reductions. The components of the
charge were as follows:


     Store closure costs                                     $  213
     Refranchising losses                                       136
     Impairment charges for stores to be 
      used in the business                                       61
                                                             -----------
        Total facility actions net loss                         410
                                                             -----------
     Impairment of investment in 
       unconsolidated affiliates                                 79
     Severance and other                                         41
                                                             -----------
        Total unusual charges                                   120
                                                             -----------
        Total fourth quarter charges                         $  530
                                                             -----------

     The charge is largely  non-cash and is expected to have a favorable  impact
on future cash flows and operating profits.  We believe our worldwide  business,
upon completion of the actions covered by the charge, will be significantly more
focused and better positioned to deliver consistent growth in operating earnings
before facility actions.

     For more than two years,  we have been working to reduce our share of total
system units by selling  Company  restaurants  to existing  and new  franchisees
where  their  expertise  can be  leveraged  to  improve  our  concepts'  overall
operational performance,  while retaining Company ownership of key markets. This
portfolio-balancing  activity  has, and will  continue  to,  reduce our reported
revenues  and  increase  the  importance  of system  sales as a key  performance
measure.  Refranchising  frees up invested  capital while continuing to generate
franchise  fees,  thereby  improving  returns.  We  have  also  actively  closed
underperforming  units.  Restaurant  margins  and cash  flows  benefit  from the
one-time  impact of  refranchising  gains  and the  ongoing  impact  of  closing
underperforming  Company units. The impact of refranchising gains is expected to
decrease over time.

     As a result of our  initiatives,  coupled  with new points of  distribution
added  by  our  franchisees  and  licensees,   our  overall  Company  percentage
(including  joint  venture  units) of our Core  Businesses'  total  system units
declined by 6  percentage  points  from 44% at year-end  1996 to 38% at year-end
1997.  We   refranchised   1,418  and  659  Company  units  in  1997  and  1996,
respectively. In addition, we closed 661 and 352 Company units in 1997 and 1996,
respectively,  and have approved for closure an additional 697 units at year-end
1997. Total system units grew 2% and 4% in 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  driven
by new points of  distribution  added by our  franchisees  and licensees.  As we
approach a Company/franchise balance more consistent with our major competition,
refranchising activity is expected to substantially decrease.

     Results of Operations

     Comparability

     On an overall basis,  we lost $111 million in 1997 or $.73 per basic share.
In the context of our Spin-off,  comparisons  of results of  operations  for the
year are complex.  The fourth quarter charge and the significant  level of other
facility actions,  including the second quarter refranchising through an initial
public offering of our restaurants in New Zealand,  represent  significant items
which complicate  year-over-year  comparisons.  In addition, the disposal of our
non-core businesses in 1997 adds complexity.

     Our  historical  financial  statements  are  also  impacted  by our lack of
history as an independent,  publicly owned company.  Therefore,  the amounts for
certain items such as general and administrative expenses,  interest expense and
income taxes,  included in our historical  reported results for periods prior to
the Spin-off,  represent allocations or computations which are not indicative of
the results of operations,  financial  position and cash flows as if we had been
an independent,  publicly owned company during all periods presented.  See Notes
2, 3, 4 and 16. In addition, the separation agreement entered into in connection
with the  Spin-off  specifies  that  PepsiCo  shall  make a final  determination
regarding the net assets of the restaurant  businesses  transferred to us at the
Spin-off Date.  This  determination  has been  preliminarily  completed,  but is
subject to our agreement. 



The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements reflect our estimates,  based
on  available  information,  of the net assets that should be  transferred.  The
final approved  determination  could vary from these estimates.  Any changes are
not expected to materially affect future net income.

     Additionally,  comparative information is impacted by the operations of and
disposal charges related to our non-core restaurant  businesses.  These disposal
charges  included an estimated  provision  for all expected  future  liabilities
associated with the disposal of the non-core  businesses  which we were required
to retain as part of the Spin-off. Actual amounts incurred may ultimately differ
from these  estimates.  California  Pizza Kitchen,  Chevys  Mexican  Restaurant,
D'Angelo  Sandwich  Shop,  East Side Mario's and Hot `n Now  (collectively,  the
"Non-core Businesses") were sold prior to the Spin-off Date.

     Following  is a summary  of the  impacts  on our  operating  results of the
operations and disposal of the Non-core Businesses:

     The impact of the operations  and sale of the Non-core  Businesses are more
fully  discussed in Note 16. To  facilitate  comparability  of future  operating
results, the following analysis of historical results of operations concentrates
on Core Businesses only except where specifically noted.



Worldwide -- Core Business Only

(1)  Excluding the effects of the fourth quarter  charge.  
(2)  Computed based on adjusted amounts, if applicable.

NM - Not Meaningful
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WORLDWIDE RESTAURANT UNIT ACTIVITY


(a)  Includes 697 units  approved for closure but not yet closed at December 27,
     1997.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     System sales,  which  represents the combined  sales of the Company,  joint
venture,  franchised and licensed  units,  increased $185 million or 1% in 1997.
Excluding  the negative  impact of foreign  currency  translation,  system sales
increased  by $525  million or 3%. The  increase  before the  effects of foreign
currency  translation  reflected  the  development  of new units,  primarily  by
franchisees and licensees.  Domestic  development was primarily at Taco Bell and
international development was primarily in Asia. This growth in system sales was
partially  offset by store closures.  The 1996 increase of $548 million or 3% in
system sales  related to new unit growth in franchised  and licensed  operations
and new Company units,  primarily in international  markets.  The overall system
sales growth was partially offset by store closures.

     Revenues decreased $425 million or 4% in 1997. Company sales decreased $501
million or 5% in 1997. The decrease was driven  primarily by fewer Company units
as a result of our  refranchising  initiatives and store closures.  This decline
was partially offset by higher effective net pricing. Franchise and license fees
increased  $76 million or 15% in 1997  primarily  due to an increased  number of
franchised  units, an increase in continuing  fees related to our  refranchising
activities and renewal fees received under a special KFC U.S. franchise contract
renewal. This increase in franchise and license fees was partially offset by the
unfavorable effects of foreign currency translation.

     Total revenues decreased $114 million or 1% in 1996 primarily  attributable
to a decline of $172 million, or 2%, in Company sales, partially offset by a 13%
increase in franchise and license fees. The decrease in Company sales was driven
by volume declines, partially due to lapping the strong volume increases in 1995
resulting from the successful  introduction  of Stuffed Crust Pizza by Pizza Hut
in the U.S. The decline also reflects  unfavorable  impact of fewer U.S. Company
units in 1996 as compared to 1995 as a result of our  refranchising  initiatives
and store closures. These declines were partially offset by higher effective net
pricing, improved same store sales at KFC in the domestic market and new Company
units, primarily in international markets. The increase in franchise and license
fees in 1996  primarily  reflected  new  franchise  and  license  units  and the
continuing franchise fees from refranchised restaurants.

Restaurant Margin - Worldwide

                             1997               1996               1995
                         --------------     --------------    ---------------

Company sales                 100.0%             100.0%            100.0%
Food and paper                 32.4               33.1              33.0
Payroll and employee 
  benefits                     28.5               28.5              28.2
Occupancy and other 
  operating expenses           27.6               27.8              27.6
                         --------------     --------------    ---------------
Restaurant margin              11.5%              10.6%             11.2%
                         ==============     ==============    ===============

     Company  restaurant margins as a percent of sales increased 90 basis points
for 1997.  The increase in  restaurant  margin in 1997 was  partially  driven by
effective net pricing in excess of increased  costs,  primarily labor. The other
primary factor  impacting  margin was the positive impact of  refranchising  and
closing  underperforming  units which  contributed  about 60 basis points of the
improvement.  This  margin  increase  was  partially  offset  by  lower  overall
transactions.  1997 also benefited from lower commodity costs primarily  related
to favorable cheese and chicken prices.

     Company  restaurant  margins decreased in 1996,  primarily  attributable to
increased costs, primarily labor. In addition,  lower volumes contributed to the
decline in margin. These decreases were partially offset by higher effective net
pricing,  reduced  depreciation  and  amortization  relating  to the  impairment
charges  previously taken and the positive impact of  refranchising  and closing
underperforming units.



General, Administrative and Other Expenses

                                  % B(W) vs.                        % B(W) vs.
                    1997             1996             1996             1995
                 ------------    -------------     ------------    -------------

Domestic         $    556             (1)          $    548             (10)
International         289             (6)               273              (7)
Unallocated            92            (30)                71             (45)
                 ------------                      ------------
                 $    937             (5)          $    892             (11)
                 ============                      ============

     General,  administrative  and other expenses  ("G&A")  includes general and
administrative  expenses,  other income and expense,  equity income or loss from
investments in unconsolidated affiliates and foreign exchange gains and losses.

     Included  in the  unallocated  G&A is a  PepsiCo  allocation  amount of $37
million,  $53 million and $52 million in 1997 (through the Spin-off Date),  1996
and 1995, respectively,  reflecting a portion of PepsiCo's shared administrative
expenses.  The amounts of PepsiCo's  administrative  expenses allocated to us by
PepsiCo were based on PepsiCo's  total corporate  administrative  expenses using
the ratio of our revenues to PepsiCo's  revenues.  We believe that this basis of
allocation  was  reasonable  based on the  facts  available  at the date of such
allocation. Based on our current analysis, we also believe that the G&A expenses
we would have incurred as an independent, publicly owned company would have been
approximately $20 million higher than the annualized allocation from PepsiCo.

     The  $45  million  or 5%  increase  in  G&A  in  1997  reflected  increased
investment  spending,  TRICON start-up  costs,  higher  incentive  compensation,
increased   litigation-related   costs  and  higher  foreign   exchange  losses.
Investment  spending  consisted  primarily  of costs  related to  improving  and
updating administrative systems, including initial spending on Year 2000 issues,
as well as investments during 1997 in certain key international  markets.  These
higher expenses were partially offset by the lapping of a reorganization  charge
that Pizza Hut took in 1996,  overall lower project spending and field overhead,
particularly at Pizza Hut, and the favorable impact of divested units.

     The  $89  million  or  11%  increase  in G&A in  1996  reflected  increased
spending,  led by multiple U.S.  initiatives to improve  customer service and to
support  growth  in  our  principal  international  markets.   Customer  service
initiatives included expanding the number and training of personnel  supervising
the restaurant  managers,  as well as project  spending  against  market-related
programs.

Facility Actions Net Loss (Gain)

                                 ----------------------
                                             Excluding 
                                            4th Quarter
                                    Total     Charge       1996           1995
                                 ---------  -----------   --------     ---------

Refranchising gains, net         $  (112)   $  (248)      $ (139)      $   (93)
Store closure costs                  248         35           40            38
Impairment charges for stores 
  to be used in the
  business                           111         50           62           337
                                 ---------  -----------   --------     ---------
Facility actions net loss (gain) $   247    $  (163)      $  (37)      $   282
                                 =========  ===========   ========     =========
  


     Refranchising  gains, which included initial franchise fees of $41 million,
$22 million and $8 million in 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively,  as well as a
$100 million  tax-free gain from  refranchising  our  restaurants in New Zealand
through an initial public offering,  arose from the  refranchising of 1,418, 
659 and 264 units in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Store  closure  costs are provided  upon  management's  decision to close a
unit. These costs included the estimated cost of closing an additional 697 units
approved for closure in 1997, which were not yet closed at December 27, 1997. We
closed 661, 352 and 267 units in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Impairment  charges  in 1997  of $50  million  and in  1996 of $62  million
resulted from our semi-annual  impairment  evaluations of each restaurant  which
will  continue  to be used in the  business  that  initially  met our  "two-year
history  of  operating  losses"  primary  impairment  indicator  or due to other
changes in  circumstances.  The $337  million  charge in 1995 was related to the
initial  adoption  of  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS  121"),  which we believe  requires  periodic  impairment
evaluations at the restaurant  level.  Previously,  impairment was evaluated and
measured if a restaurant concept was incurring operating losses and was expected
to incur operating losses in the future.

Operating Profits

                                          % B(W) vs.                  % B(W) vs.
                               1997          1996          1996          1995
                           -----------    ----------    ----------    ---------

Domestic                   $     605         17         $    516         (17)
International                    170         13              151          26
Foreign exchange losses          (16)        NM               (5)         NM
Unallocated expenses            (110)       (55)             (71)        (45)
                           -----------                  ----------
Ongoing operating profit   $     649         10         $    591         (15)
                           ===========                  ==========

NM - Not Meaningful

     Exclusive  of  the  fourth  quarter  charge  and  other  facility  actions,
operating profits  increased $58 million or 10% in 1997.  Excluding the negative
impact of unfavorable currency translation, the increase in operating profit was
$67 million or 11%. This increase in 1997 relates  primarily to higher franchise
fees and  improved  restaurant  margins,  partially  offset  by an  increase  in
unallocated expenses primarily reflecting an increase in general, administrative
and other expenses.

     Operating profits, exclusive of facility actions, decreased $103 million or
15% in 1996.  The  decrease in 1996 is due  primarily to an increase in general,
administrative and other expenses and a decline in restaurant margins, partially
offset by higher franchise fees.

     Interest Expense, Net

     Prior to the Spin-off,  our operations were financed through operating cash
flows, refranchising activities and investments by and advances from PepsiCo. At
the Spin-off  Date, a bank credit  agreement  replaced the financing  previously
provided by PepsiCo and, additionally, funded a dividend to PepsiCo. See Notes 3
and 9. Our interest  expense  includes an  allocation by PepsiCo of its interest
expense (PepsiCo's weighted average interest rate applied to the average balance
of  investments  by and advances from PepsiCo) and interest on our external debt
for all  periods  prior to the  Spin-off.  We believe  such  allocated  interest
expense is not indicative of the interest expense that we would have incurred as
an independent, publicly owned company or will incur in future periods. See Note
16.  Subsequent to the Spin-off  Date,  our interest cost consists  primarily of
interest  



expense  related to our bank credit  agreement and interest on other third party
debt, including capital leases, most of which existed at the Spin-off Date.

     Interest expense  decreased in 1997 primarily due to the lower  outstanding
amount of  PepsiCo-provided  financing.  Such impact is partially  offset by the
higher  interest rate on our bank credit  agreement,  as compared to the PepsiCo
rate used in the allocation process, and also higher outstanding debt levels.

     Interest expense  decreased in 1996 primarily due to the lower  outstanding
amount of PepsiCo-provided  financing and a lower weighted average interest rate
than in 1995.

     Income Taxes

     For periods prior to the Spin-off,  income tax expense was  calculated,  to
the extent possible, as if we filed income tax returns separate from PepsiCo. As
PepsiCo  managed its tax  position  on a  consolidated  basis,  which takes into
account the results of all its businesses,  our effective tax rate in the future
could vary significantly from our calculated historical effective tax rates. Our
future  effective  tax  rate  will  largely  depend  on our  structure  and  tax
strategies as an independent, publicly owned company.

Income Taxes and Effective Tax Rate

                                  1997           1996             1995
                              -------------   -----------     -------------
  Core Business Actual
    Income taxes                $      94       $    186        $     77
    Effective tax rate                 NM           55.9%             NM

  Ongoing*
    Income taxes                $     205       $    186        $    170
    Effective tax rate               46.7%          55.9%           45.1%

*    Adjusted to exclude the effects of the 1997 fourth quarter charge, the 1997
     $100 million  tax-free gain  associated with the New Zealand initial public
     offering and the initial impact of adopting SFAS 121 in 1995. See Note 4.

NM - Not Meaningful

The  following  reconciles  the U.S.  Federal  statutory tax rate to our ongoing
effective rate:

                                          1997        1996       1995
                                       -----------  --------   --------
U.S. Federal statutory tax rate           35.0%       35.0%      35.0%
State income tax, net of Federal 
  tax benefit                              4.5         2.6        2.3
Foreign and U.S. tax effects 
  attributable to foreign operations       5.5        16.3        6.6
Other, net                                 1.7         2.0        1.2
                                       -----------  --------   --------

Ongoing effective tax rate                46.7%       55.9%      45.1%
                                       ===========  ========   ========

     The 1997 ongoing  effective  tax rate  decreased  9.2 points to 46.7%.  The
decrease  in the  1997  ongoing  effective  tax rate  was  primarily  due to the
decrease in taxes  attributable to foreign  operations,  partially  offset by an
increase  in state  taxes.  The foreign  decrease  was due to the absence of the
adjustment  recorded in 1996 to establish a valuation  allowance,  which is more
fully described below, as well as a decrease in adjustments related to prior tax
years. The increase in state tax was primarily due to an increase in adjustments
related to prior tax years.



     The increase in the 1996 ongoing  effective tax rate related to an increase
in taxes attributable to foreign operations,  due in part to adjustments related
to prior tax years,  and the  establishment  of a valuation  allowance  due to a
change in judgement as to the expected  realization of certain foreign  deferred
tax assets  resulting from a larger than expected net operating loss during 1996
and  forecasted  continuing  operating  losses for the next  several  years in a
foreign jurisdiction.

     The  effective  tax rate  attributable  to foreign  operations  varied from
year-to-year  but in each year was higher than the U.S.  Federal  statutory  tax
rate.  This was  primarily  due to  foreign  tax rate  differentials,  including
foreign  withholding  tax paid without benefit of the related foreign tax credit
for U.S.  income tax purposes and losses of foreign  operations for which no tax
benefit could be currently recognized.

Earnings (Loss) Per Share

The components of basic earnings (loss) per share would have been as follows:


Domestic -- Core Business Only

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





U.S. RESTAURANT UNIT ACTIVITY


(a)  Includes 540 units approved for closure, but not yet closed at December 27,
     1997.

     System  sales  increased  $114 million or 1% in 1997  primarily  reflecting
higher volumes from new unit activity,  principally by franchisees and licensees
at Taco Bell, partially offset by closure of underperforming units.

     The 1996 increase of $189 million or 1% in system sales  primarily  related
to new unit growth in franchised  and licensed  operations.  The overall  system
sales growth was reduced by store closures.

     Revenues  decreased  $435  million or 6% in 1997  primarily  due to Company
sales  decreases of $496  million or 7%. The  decrease  was driven  primarily by
fewer  Company  units,  primarily at Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, as a result of our
refranchising initiative and store closures. The decline was partially offset by
higher overall effective net pricing.  This pricing impact occurred primarily at
Taco Bell, which exceeded lower prices at Pizza Hut.

     Franchise and license fees  increased $61 million or 20% in 1997  primarily
due to an increase in continuing  fees related to our  refranchising  activities
and new unit  development  at Pizza Hut and Taco Bell and to renewal fees of $24
million under a special KFC franchise  contract  renewal.  Substantially  all of
KFC's franchisees  renewed their franchise  agreements,  typically for 20-years,
during  1997.  As  part  of  the  special  renewal   program  at  KFC,   certain
participating  franchisees  also committed to attain over the next several years
certain  facility  standards based on physical  assessment of that  franchisee's
restaurants.  We  believe  such  upgrades  of  the  franchised  facilities  will
ultimately result in higher system sales and, therefore, higher franchise fees.

     Same store sales are measured for our U.S. Company units.  Same store sales
at KFC increased 2% in 1997 driven by product  promotions,  favorable  effective
net pricing and increased delivery sales,  partially offset by lower transaction
counts.  Same store sales at Pizza Hut decreased 1% for 1997,  rebounding from a
7% decline through the second quarter.  At Pizza Hut, lower average guest checks
in 1997 and  decreasing  transaction  counts in the first  half of the year were
partially  offset  in  the  second  half  by  quality  initiatives,   increasing
transaction  counts and the  introduction  of "The Edge"  Pizza.  Taco Bell same
store sales  increased 2% in 1997 reflecting the successful Star Wars and Batman
promotions,   favorable  product  mix  shifts  and  pricing,   offset  by  lower
transaction counts.



     Total 1996 revenues  decreased  $335 million or 4% primarily due to Company
sales  decreases  of $374  million  or 5%.  The  decrease  was  driven by volume
declines,  partially  due to lapping the second  quarter  1995  introduction  of
Stuffed Crust Pizza,  and the  unfavorable  impact of fewer Company units due to
refranchisings  and closures.  These  declines were  partially  offset by higher
effective net pricing. Same store sales decreased 4% and 2% in 1996 at Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell,  respectively,  reflecting lower transaction  counts.  KFC's same
store sales  increased  6% in 1996 due  primarily  to the impact of new products
such as Tender Roast  Chicken,  Colonel's  Crispy Strips and Chunky  Chicken Pot
Pies.

     Franchise  and  license  fees  increased  $39  million  or 15% in 1996  due
primarily to an increase in the number of franchised and licensed units from new
unit development, primarily at Taco Bell, and our refranchising activities.

Restaurant Margin - Domestic

                                  1997            1996          1995
                                ---------      ----------      --------

Company sales                     100.0%         100.0%         100.0%
Food and paper                     31.1           32.1           32.3
Payroll and employee 
  benefits                         30.3           30.0           29.5
Occupancy and other 
  operating expenses               27.0           27.4           27.1
                                =========      ==========      ========
Restaurant margin                  11.6%          10.5%          11.1%
                                =========      ==========      ========

     The  increase  in  margin of 110 basis  points  in 1997 was  driven  almost
equally by effective net pricing in excess of increased costs,  primarily labor,
and the positive impact of closing and refranchising lower-margin units at Pizza
Hut and Taco  Bell.  This  improvement  was  partially  offset by the  effect of
reduced  transaction counts. The increased labor costs were due to the increased
minimum wage in the U.S. and to costs incurred to improve customer satisfaction,
partially  offset by favorable  actuarial  adjustments to workers'  compensation
liabilities.  In 1997, we also benefited from lower  commodity  costs  primarily
related to favorable cheese and chicken prices.

     The margin decrease in 1996 was attributable to increased costs,  primarily
labor,  and  lower  volumes.  These  impacts  were  partially  offset  by higher
effective net pricing,  reduced  depreciation and  amortization  relating to the
SFAS 121 charges  previously taken and the positive impact of refranchising  and
closing underperforming units.

     Operating profits for domestic operations,  exclusive of the fourth quarter
charge and other  facility  actions  were $605  million,  $516  million and $624
million for 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The increase of $89 million or
17% in 1997 was due primarily to higher  franchise fees and improved  restaurant
margins,  partially offset by an increase in general,  administrative  and other
expenses.

     The  decrease  in 1996  of $108  million  or 17% was due to a  decrease  in
restaurant  margins  and  an  increase  in  general,  administrative  and  other
expenses.



International - Core Business Only

                                       1997                        1996
                              -----------------------  -------------------------
                                          % B(W) vs.                  % B(W) vs.
                                 Amount      1996        Amount         1995
                              ----------  -----------  ----------   ------------

SYSTEM SALES                  $   6,963        1       $   6,892          6
                              ==========               ==========

REVENUES
Company sales                 $   2,118        *       $   2,123         11
Franchise and license fees          200        8             185         11
                              ----------               -----------
   Total Revenues             $   2,318        *       $   2,308         11
                              ==========               ===========


COMPANY RESTAURANT MARGIN     $     242        2       $     237          8
                              ==========               ============
% of sales                      11.4%     .2 points       11.2%      (.3 points)

*Less than 1%.


INTERNATIONAL RESTAURANT UNIT ACTIVITY

(a)  Includes 157 units approved for closure, but not yet closed at December 27,
     1997.


     System sales increased $71 million or 1% in 1997. Exclusive of the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased $411 million or
6% in 1997. This growth was driven by new unit development,  partially offset by
store  closures.   Franchisee   activity  drove  system  unit  development  with
approximately  50% of that  activity  occurring  in Asia.  The  increase of $359
million in 1996 primarily represented new unit growth by franchisees.

     Revenues  increased  $10 million or less than 1% in 1997.  Exclusive of the
negative impact of foreign currency translation,  revenues increased $86 million
or 4%. This increase relates primarily to higher effective net pricing, new unit
development  in  Asia  and  an  increase  in  franchise  fees   attributable  to
development offset by store closures. Company sales in 1997 decreased $5 million
or  less  than  1%.  Exclusive  of  the  negative  impact  of  foreign  currency
translation, Company sales increased $66 million or 3%. This increase was driven
primarily by higher effective net pricing and unit development  partially offset
by the effect of refranchising our restaurants in New Zealand through an initial
public offering in the second quarter.  Franchise and license fees 




increased  $15 million or 8% in 1997  primarily  from new unit  development  and
restaurants refranchised in New Zealand and Canada.

     Revenues increased $221 million or 11% in 1996.  Increases in Company sales
of $202 million or 11% were driven by the favorable impact of additional Company
units,  higher  effective  net pricing and  increased  volumes.  The increase in
franchise and license revenue of $19 million or 11% in 1996 primarily  reflected
new unit development.

Restaurant Margin - International

                                          1997       1996      1995
                                         --------  --------   ---------

Company sales                             100.0%    100.0%     100.0%
Food and paper                             36.5      36.3       35.7
Payroll and employee benefits              22.7      23.2       23.3
Occupancy and other operating expenses     29.4      29.3       29.5
                                         --------  --------   ---------
Restaurant margin                          11.4%     11.2%      11.5%
                                         ========  ========   =========

     The  improvement  in  margin in 1997 was  primarily  due to  effective  net
pricing in excess of cost increases, primarily labor, offset by volume declines.
Foreign currency  translation and portfolio  activity did not have a significant
impact on  restaurant  margin.  The 30 basis  point  decrease  in 1996 over 1995
reflected  increases in variable costs partially offset by effective net pricing
and the  reduced  depreciation  and  amortization  relating  to SFAS 121 charges
previously taken.

     Operating  profits,  exclusive  of the  fourth  quarter  charge  and  other
facility  actions,  were $170  million,  $151 million and $120 million for 1997,
1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The  increase  of $19  million or 13% in 1997 was
primarily driven by new units, higher restaurant margins and increased franchise
fees,  partially  offset by an  increase in  general,  administrative  and other
expenses and the unfavorable  effect of currency  translation.  Exclusive of the
unfavorable  effect of currency  translation,  the  increase  in 1997  operating
profit was $28 million or 19%.

     The increase in 1996 of $31 million or 26% reflected net additional Company
units,  increased volumes and reduced depreciation and amortization  relating to
the SFAS 121  charges  previously  taken,  partially  offset by an  increase  in
general, administrative and other expenses and restaurant margin declines.

     Consolidated Cash Flows
     (Including Core and Non-core Businesses)

Graph:  Net  Cash  Provided  by  Operating   Activities  and   Refranchising  of
        Restaurants vs. Capital Spending

                                             1997          1996           1995
                                           ----------   ----------    ----------

Net cash provided by operating activities  $     810    $     713     $     813
Refranchising of restaurants                     770          355           165
                                           ----------   ----------    ----------
                                           $   1,580    $   1,068     $     978
                                           ==========   ==========    ==========

Capital spending                           $     541    $     620     $     701
                                           ==========   ==========    ==========






     Net cash provided by operating  activities  increased $97 million or 14% to
$810  million in 1997.  This was driven by an  increase  in net income  prior to
facility  actions net loss and unusual charges  recorded in 1997 and an increase
in our normal working  capital  deficit  primarily  related to higher income tax
payables.  These  increases were partially  offset by reduced  depreciation  and
amortization in 1997. The decrease in depreciation and  amortization  related to
refranchisings  and store  closures  and to lower asset costs due to  impairment
charges.

     Net cash provided by operating activities in 1996 decreased $100 million or
12% to $713  million.  The decrease was due to reduced  income  before  non-cash
charges and  credits of $76  million  and a $24  million  decline in our working
capital deficit. The decline in our working capital deficit was primarily due to
an unfavorable  swing in income taxes payable  partially offset by faster growth
in  accounts  payable and other  current  liabilities  and a favorable  swing in
inventories.  The change in accounts  payable and other current  liabilities was
primarily due to timing of payments.

     Net cash provided by investing  activities  increased  $715 million to $466
million  in 1997  compared  to net cash  used by  investing  activities  of $249
million and $597 million in 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The 1997 increase was
primarily  attributable  to  an  increase  in  proceeds  from  refranchising  of
restaurants  of $415  million  over 1996 and the  proceeds  from the sale of the
Non-core  Businesses of $186 million.  Capital spending decreased by $79 million
or 13%. The decline in net cash used for  investing  activities  in 1996 of $348
million  or 58%  related  to an  increase  in the  proceeds  from  refranchising
activities of $190 million and a reduction in capital spending of $81 million in
1996,  which  reflected  a slow  down  of new  unit  development  as part of our
initiative to reduce our percentage ownership of total system units.

     Net cash used for  financing  activities  more than doubled in 1997 to $1.1
billion,  primarily reflecting the net payments to PepsiCo,  partially offset by
the bank borrowings in connection with the Spin-off.  This net use was partially
offset by the increase in short-term  borrowings of $83 million in 1997 versus a
decrease of $80 million in 1996 and payments on the Revolving Credit Facility.

     Net cash used for  financing  activities  in 1996  nearly  doubled  to $422
million primarily  reflecting debt payments in 1996 compared to proceeds in 1995
and net cash payments to PepsiCo.

     Financing Activities

     Our  initial  debt  funding  was a  $5.25  billion  bank  credit  agreement
comprised  of a $2 billion  senior,  unsecured  Term Loan  Facility  and a $3.25
billion senior,  unsecured  Revolving Credit Facility which mature on October 2,
2002.  Interest  is based  principally  on the  London  Interbank  Offered  Rate
("LIBOR")  plus a variable  margin as defined  in the  credit  agreement.  As of
December 27, 1997,  $1.97 billion and $2.44 billion were outstanding on the Term
Loan and Revolving  Credit  Facility,  respectively,  and we had $692 million in
unused revolving credit capacity,  net of Letters of Credit of $123 million. The
credit  facilities  are subject to various  affirmative  and negative  covenants
including financial covenants as well as limitations on additional  indebtedness
including  guarantees  of  indebtedness,   cash  dividends,  aggregate  non-U.S.
investments, among other things, as defined in the credit agreement.

     This substantial  indebtedness  subjects us to significant interest expense
and  principal  repayment  obligations  which are limited,  in the near term, to
prepayment  events as  defined  in the credit  agreement.  Our highly  leveraged
capital  structure could also adversely affect our ability to obtain  additional
financing  in the future or to  undertake  refinancings  on terms and subject to
conditions that are acceptable to us.



     At year-end 1997, we were in compliance with the above noted covenants, and
we will continue to closely  monitor on an ongoing  basis the various  operating
issues that could,  in  aggregate,  affect our ability to comply with  financial
covenant requirements.  Such issues include the ongoing economic issues faced by
much of Asia as well as the intensely competitive nature of the QSR industry.

     A key  component of our  financing  philosophy  is to build  balance  sheet
liquidity and to diversify sources of funding.  Consistent with that philosophy,
which  was  discussed  with our  lenders  during  syndication  of the Term  Loan
Facility  and  Revolving  Credit  Facility,  we have taken steps to  refinance a
portion of our existing bank credit facility.  In that regard,  in 1997 we filed
with the Securities and Exchange  Commission a shelf  registration  statement on
Form S-3 with respect to an offering of $2 billion of senior  unsecured debt. We
may offer and sell from time to time debt  securities in one or more series,  in
amounts,  at prices and on terms to be  determined  by market  conditions at the
time of sale,  as discussed  in more detail in the  registration  statement.  We
currently  intend to use the net proceeds from an expected  issuance and sale of
debt securities  offered under this shelf registration to reduce term debt under
the  above-referenced  bank credit agreement and for general corporate purposes.
During  1998,  we intend to reduce our reliance on bank debt by up to $1 billion
through a combination  of proceeds from the debt  securities  offered under this
shelf  registration,  proceeds from refranchising  activities and a reduction in
unused credit facilities.

     We use  various  derivative  instruments  with the  objective  of  reducing
volatility  in  our  borrowing  costs.  We  have  utilized  interest  rate  swap
agreements  to  effectively  convert a portion of our variable rate (LIBOR) bank
debt to fixed rate.  Subsequent to year-end  1997, we have entered into treasury
lock agreements to partially  hedge the anticipated  issuance of our senior debt
securities  discussed  above.  We  have  also  entered  into  an  interest  rate
arrangement  to limit the range of interest  rates on a portion of our  variable
rate bank debt. Other derivative instruments may be considered from time to time
as well to manage our debt  portfolio  and to hedge  foreign  currency  exchange
exposures.

     We believe that cash flows from our ongoing  refranchising  initiatives and
our operating  activities will be sufficient to support our capital spending and
to service our debt.

     Consolidated Financial Condition
     (Including Core and Non-core Businesses)

     Assets  decreased $1.4 billion or 22% to $5.1 billion at year-end 1997. The
decline was  principally  due to the fourth quarter  charge,  refranchising  and
store closures and the disposal of the Non-core Businesses,  partially offset by
an increase in cash.

     Liabilities  increased  $4.4  billion  to $6.7  billion  at  year-end  1997
primarily   reflecting  the  $4.55  billion  borrowing  under  our  bank  credit
agreement, partially offset by a lower net deferred tax liability. The lower net
deferred tax liability  results  primarily  from the higher  deferred tax assets
principally related to the fourth quarter charge.

     Our  operating   working  capital   deficit,   which  excludes   short-term
investments,  short-term  borrowings and non-core  assets held for disposal,  is
typical of restaurant  operations  where the majority of sales are for cash. The
modest $27 million  increase in our operating  working  capital  deficit to $805
million at year-end 1997 primarily  reflected an increase in current liabilities
related to the fourth quarter charge.



     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     Derivative Instruments

     Our policy prohibits the use of derivative instruments for trading purposes
and we have  procedures  in place to monitor and control  their use. Our current
use of derivative  instruments  is primarily  limited to interest rate swaps and
commodity futures contracts.

     Interest  rate swaps are  entered  into with the  objective  of  converting
variable to fixed rate debt thereby  reducing  volatility in borrowing costs. In
1997, we entered into interest  rate swaps to  effectively  convert a portion of
our variable rate bank debt to fixed rate.  Payment dates and the floating rates
on the swaps match those of the underlying bank debt. Our credit risk related to
interest  rate swaps is dependent  upon both the movement in interest  rates and
the possibility of non-payment by swap  counterparties.  We mitigate credit risk
by  only   entering   into  the  swap   agreements   with  high   credit-quality
counterparties and netting swap payments within each contract.

     Commodity futures  contracts traded on national  exchanges are entered into
with the  objective  of reducing  food costs.  While this  hedging  activity has
historically  been limited,  hedging activity could increase in the future if we
believe it would result in lower total costs. Open contracts, deferred gains and
losses  and  realized  gains  and  losses  were not  significant  for all  years
presented.

     Market Risk

     Our primary market risk exposure with regard to financial instruments is to
changes in interest  rates,  principally  in the United States.  In addition,  a
portion of our debt is  denominated  in foreign  currencies  which exposes us to
market risk associated with exchange rate movements.  Historically,  we have not
used derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to foreign currency
rate  fluctuations  since the market risk associated  with our foreign  currency
denominated debt was not considered significant.

     At December 27, 1997, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term
interest  rates  would  result in a reduction  of $33 million in annual  pre-tax
earnings.  The  estimated  reduction is based upon the  unhedged  portion of our
variable rate debt and assumes no change in the volume or composition of debt at
December 27, 1997. In addition,  the fair value of our interest rate  derivative
contracts would increase approximately $25 million. Fair value was determined by
discounting the projected interest rate swap cash flows.

     Cautionary Statements

     From time to time, in both written reports and oral statements,  we present
"forward-looking  statements" within the meaning of Federal and state securities
laws,  including  those  identified  by such words as "may,"  "will,"  "expect,"
"believe,"  "plan"  and  other  similar  terminology.   These   "forward-looking
statements"  reflect our current  expectations and are based upon data available
at the time of the statements.  Actual results involve risks and  uncertainties,
including both those specific to the Company and those specific to the industry,
and could differ materially from expectations.

     Company risks and uncertainties  include but are not limited to the lack of
experience of our management  group in operating the Company as an  independent,
publicly owned business;  potentially  substantial tax contingencies  related to
the  Spin-off,  which,  if they  occur,  require us to  indemnify  PepsiCo;  our
substantial debt leverage and the attendant potential restriction on our ability
to  borrow  in the  future,  as well as the  substantial  interest  expense  and
principal  repayment   obligations;   potential  unfavorable  variances  between
estimated  and actual  liabilities  both as  contained  in the  PepsiCo-prepared
balance sheet for the restaurant  businesses as of the Spin-off Date and related
to the sale of the Non-core Businesses; third party failures to


achieve timely, effective Year 2000 remediation;  and the potential inability to
identify  qualified  franchisees  to purchase  Company  restaurants at prices we
consider appropriate under our strategy to reduce the percentage of system units
we operate.

     Industry risks and  uncertainties  include,  but are not limited to, global
and local  business and  economic  and  political  conditions;  legislation  and
governmental  regulation;  competition;  success of  operating  initiatives  and
advertising and promotional efforts; volatility of commodity costs and increases
in minimum wage and other  operating  costs;  availability  and cost of land and
construction;  adoption of new or changes in accounting  policies and practices;
consumer  preferences,  spending patterns and demographic  trends;  political or
economic instability in local markets; and currency exchange rates.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                              Item 8 (a) (1) - (2)
                                                             Page Reference
                                                             ----------------
Item  8 (a) (1) Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal 
  years ended December 27, 1997, December 28,
  1996 and December 30, 1995                                       37

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal 
  years ended December 27, 1997, December 28,
  1996 and December 30, 1995                                       38

Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 27, 1997 and 
  December 28, 1996                                                39

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' (Deficit) 
  Equity for the fiscal years ended December 27,
  1997, December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995                    40

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                         41

Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements               61

Report of Independent Auditors, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP              62

Item 8 (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedules

     No schedules are required  because  either the required  information is not
present or not  present  in amounts  sufficient  to  require  submission  of the
schedule,  or because the  information  required is included in the above listed
financial statements or the notes thereto.


Consolidated Statement of Operations
(in millions)
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 27, 1997, December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995

















See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions)
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 27, 1997, December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Balance Sheet
(in millions)
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' (Deficit) Equity
(in millions)
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended December 27, 1997, December 28, 1996 and December 30, 1995














See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(tabular amounts in millions, except share data)

Note 1 - Description of Business

     TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries (collectively referred to
as "TRICON" or the  "Company") is the world's  largest quick service  restaurant
company based on the number of system units,  with more than 29,000  restaurants
in  103  countries  and  territories.  References  to  TRICON  throughout  these
Consolidated  Financial  Statements are made using the first person notations of
"we" or "our." The worldwide  business of our core concepts,  KFC, Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell, include the operations, development,  franchising, and licensing of a
system of both traditional and  non-traditional  quick service  restaurant units
featuring  dine-in,  carryout,  and in some  instances  drive-thru  or  delivery
service.  Each concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation
of food with high  quality  ingredients  as well as unique  recipes  and special
seasonings to provide  appealing,  tasty,  and  attractive  food at  competitive
prices. We also previously operated other non-core concepts disposed of in 1997,
which included  California  Pizza Kitchen  ("CPK"),  Chevys  Mexican  Restaurant
("Chevys"),  D'Angelo Sandwich Shop ("D'Angelo"),  East Side Mario's ("ESM") and
Hot `n Now ("HNN")  (collectively,  the "Non-core  Businesses").  As of year-end
1997, 38% of total  worldwide units were operated by us or  international  joint
ventures  in which we  participate  and 62% by our  franchisees  and  licensees.
Approximately  31% of our system  units are located  outside the United  States.
Three years ago,  we  determined  that the system  should be  rebalanced  toward
franchising  and that  underperforming  units should be closed and, to that end,
over 2,300 units have been refranchised and 1,300 units have been closed through
December 27, 1997.  We expect to continue to develop new Company and  franchised
units both  domestically  and  internationally  and to continue  to  refranchise
existing Company restaurants.

     On  October  6, 1997 (the  "Spin-off  Date"),  we became a  publicly  owned
company via a tax-free  distribution of our Common Stock (the  "Distribution" or
"Spin-off") to the shareholders of our former parent, PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo").
A description of the Spin-off and certain  transactions with PepsiCo is included
in Note 3.

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Preparation  of  the  accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in
conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from our estimates.

     Principles of  Consolidation  and Basis of  Preparation.  The  accompanying
Consolidated  Financial  Statements present our financial  position,  results of
operations  and  cash  flows as if we had been an  independent,  publicly  owned
company for all periods presented. Certain allocations of previously unallocated
PepsiCo  interest  and  general  and   administrative   expenses,   as  well  as
computations  of separate  tax  provisions,  have been made to  facilitate  such
presentation. See Note 3. The Consolidated Financial Statements prior to October
6, 1997 represent the former combined worldwide operations of KFC, Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell and the Non-core Businesses disposed of in 1997. Intercompany accounts
and transactions have been eliminated.  Investments in unconsolidated affiliates
in which we exercise significant  influence but do not control are accounted for
by the  equity  method,  and  our  share  of  the  net  income  or  loss  of our
unconsolidated  affiliates and foreign  exchange  losses is included in general,
administrative and other expenses.

     Fiscal Year.  Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday in December and, as
a result,  a  fifty-third  week is added every five or six years.  Fiscal  years
1997, 1996 and 1995 comprise 52 weeks.  The first,  second and third quarters of
each year include 12 weeks each, while the fourth quarter includes 16 weeks.



     Direct  Marketing  Costs.  Direct marketing costs are reported in occupancy
and other  operating  expenses in the  Consolidated  Statement of Operations and
include costs of advertising and other marketing  activities.  Direct  marketing
costs are charged to expense  ratably in  relation to revenues  over the year in
which incurred.  Advertising  expenses were $544 million,  $571 million and $570
million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses, which
are expensed as incurred, were $21 million, $20 million and $17 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Stock-Based Employee  Compensation.  As permitted by Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123,  "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation" ("SFAS
123"), we measure stock-based employee compensation cost for financial statement
purposes  in  accordance  with  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion  No.  25,
"Accounting  for Stock  Issued to  Employees,"  and its related  interpretations
("APB  Opinion  No.  25")  and  include  pro  forma   information  in  Note  13.
Accordingly,  compensation  cost for the stock option grants to our employees is
measured  as the excess of the quoted  market  price of our common  stock at the
grant date over the amount the employee must pay for the stock. Our policy is to
generally grant stock options at the fair market value of the underlying  common
stock at the date of grant.

     Loss per Common Share.  Historical loss per share has been omitted since we
were not an independent,  publicly owned company with a capital structure of our
own for any of the  fiscal  years  presented  in the  accompanying  Consolidated
Statement of Operations.

     Net loss per share for the fourth quarter of 1997,  included in Note 18, is
computed  by  dividing  the net loss by the  weighted  average  number of shares
outstanding.  In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 128,  "Earnings Per Share" ("SFAS 128").
SFAS 128  replaced the  calculation  of primary and fully  diluted  earnings per
share with basic and diluted  earnings per share.  Unlike  primary  earnings per
share,  basic  earnings  per share  excludes  any  dilutive  effects of options.
Additionally,  the dilutive effects of options are not included when losses from
continuing operations exist.

     Derivative  Instruments.  From time to time, we utilize interest rate swaps
to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in variable  interest rates.  The interest
differential to be paid or received on an interest rate swap is recognized as an
adjustment  to  interest  expense  as  the  differential  occurs.  The  interest
differential   not  yet  settled  in  cash  is  reflected  in  the  accompanying
Consolidated  Balance  Sheet as a receivable  or payable  under the  appropriate
current asset or liability caption.  If an interest rate swap position was to be
terminated,  the gain or loss  realized upon  termination  would be deferred and
amortized to interest  expense over the remaining  term of the  underlying  debt
instrument it was intended to modify or would be recognized  immediately  if the
underlying debt instrument was settled prior to maturity.

     Gains and losses on futures  contracts that are designated and effective as
hedges of future  commodity  purchases  are deferred and included in the cost of
the  related  raw  materials  when  purchased.  Changes  in the value of futures
contracts that we use to hedge commodity  purchases are highly correlated to the
changes in the value of the purchased  commodity.  If the degree of  correlation
between the futures  contracts and the purchase  contracts were to diminish such
that the two were no longer considered highly correlated,  subsequent changes in
the value of the futures contracts would be recognized in income.

     Cash and Cash  Equivalents.  Cash equivalents  represent funds  temporarily
invested  (with  original  maturities  not  exceeding  three  months) as part of
managing day-to-day operating cash receipts and disbursements.

     Inventories.  Inventories  are valued at the lower of cost (computed on the
first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.



     Property,  Plant and Equipment.  Property, plant and equipment ("PP&E") are
stated at cost less accumulated  depreciation and amortization,  except for PP&E
that have been impaired,  for which the carrying  amount is reduced to estimated
fair  market  value  which  becomes  the  new  cost  basis.   Depreciation   and
amortization  is calculated on a straight-line  basis over the estimated  useful
lives of the assets as follows: 5 to 25 years for buildings and improvements and
3 to 20 years for machinery and equipment. Depreciation and amortization expense
was $460  million,  $521  million  and $555  million  in  1997,  1996 and  1995,
respectively.

     Intangible Assets.  Intangible assets include both identifiable intangibles
and  goodwill  arising  from the  allocation  of purchase  prices of  businesses
acquired.  Amounts assigned to identifiable intangibles are based on independent
appraisals or internal  estimates.  Goodwill  represents  the residual  purchase
price after  allocation to all identifiable  net assets.  Intangible  assets are
stated at historical  allocated cost less accumulated  amortization,  except for
intangibles that have been impaired, for which the carrying amount is reduced to
estimated fair market value which becomes the new cost basis.  Intangible assets
are  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis as follows:  20 years for  reacquired
franchise  rights,  3  to  34  years  for  trademarks  and  other   identifiable
intangibles and 20 years for goodwill. Amortization expense was $70 million, $95
million and $109 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     Impairment  of Long-Lived  Assets to be Held and Used in the  Business.  We
review our long-lived  assets related to each  restaurant to be held and used in
the business  semi-annually  for  impairment,  or whenever  events or changes in
circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  amount of a  restaurant  may not be
recoverable.  We evaluate  restaurants  using a "two-year  history of  operating
losses" as our primary indicator of potential impairment. An impaired restaurant
is written down to its estimated fair market value based on the best information
available.  We generally  measure  estimated  fair market  value by  discounting
estimated future cash flows.  Considerable  management  judgment is necessary to
estimate  discounted future cash flows.  Accordingly,  actual results could vary
significantly from such estimates.

      Impairment   of    Investments    in    Unconsolidated    Affiliates   and
Enterprise-Level   Goodwill.  Our  methodology  for  determining  and  measuring
impairment of our investments in unconsolidated  affiliates and enterprise-level
goodwill  was  changed in 1996 to conform  with the  methodology  we use for our
restaurants   except  (a)  the   recognition   test  for  an  investment  in  an
unconsolidated  affiliate  compares the carrying  amount of the  investment to a
forecast of our share of the unconsolidated  affiliate's undiscounted cash flows
including  interest  and taxes,  compared  to  undiscounted  cash  flows  before
interest and taxes used for  restaurants  and (b)  enterprise-level  goodwill is
evaluated at a country level instead of by individual restaurant.  The change in
methodology  had  no  impact  in  1996.  Also,  impairment  charges  related  to
investments in unconsolidated  affiliates are recorded when other  circumstances
indicate that a decrease in value of the  investment has occurred which is other
than temporary.

     Pre-opening  Costs.  Costs  associated  with opening a new  restaurant  are
expensed as incurred.

     Refranchising Gains (Losses). Refranchising gains (losses) include gains or
losses on sales of Company  restaurants to new and existing  franchisees and the
related initial franchise fees. Direct administrative costs of refranchising are
included in the gain or loss calculation. Gains on restaurant refranchisings are
recognized when the sale transaction closes, the franchisee has a minimum amount
of the purchase price in at-risk equity and we are satisfied that the franchisee
can meet its financial obligations.  Otherwise, refranchising gains are deferred
until those  criteria  have been met.  Losses on restaurant  refranchisings  are
recognized when a decision is made to refranchise a store within the next twelve
months and the estimated fair value less costs to sell is less than the carrying
amount of the store.



     Store Closure Costs.  Store closure costs are recognized when a decision is
made to close a restaurant  within the next twelve  months.  Store closure costs
include  the  cost  of  writing-down   (impairing)  the  carrying  amount  of  a
restaurant's  assets to estimated fair market value less costs of disposal,  and
the net  present  value of any  remaining  operating  lease  payments  after the
expected closure date, net of estimated sub-lease income.

     Franchise and License Fees.  Franchise or license  agreements  are executed
for each point of distribution and provide the terms of the arrangement with the
franchisee/licensee.  The franchise and certain license  agreements  require the
franchisee/licensee  to pay an initial,  non-refundable fee. The agreements also
require continuing fees based upon a percentage of sales.  Subject to franchisor
approval and payment of a renewal fee, a franchise  agreement  may  generally be
renewed upon expiration.

     Initial fees are recognized as revenue when we have substantially performed
all initial services required by the franchising/licensing  agreement,  which is
generally upon opening of a store. Continuing fees are recognized as earned with
an appropriate provision for estimated  uncollectible amounts.  Renewal fees are
recognized in earnings when a renewal agreement becomes effective.

     Direct costs incurred to secure and perform the required services under the
franchise and license agreements, which are not material, are charged to expense
as incurred.

     Reclassifications. Certain items have been reclassified in the accompanying
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for prior periods in order to be comparable
with the  classification  adopted for the fiscal year ended  December  27, 1997.
Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported net income.

Note 3 - Spin-Off from and Transactions with Former Affiliates

     On the Spin-off Date, we became an independent,  publicly owned  restaurant
company  encompassing  the combined  worldwide  operations of KFC, Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell (the "Core  Business(es)")  as well as the Non-core  Businesses  which
were disposed of prior to the Spin-off.

     Spin-off and  relationship  after the Spin-off.  At the Spin-off  Date, our
common  shares were  distributed  to the record date  holders of PepsiCo  common
shares at a ratio of one share for each ten outstanding  PepsiCo  shares.  After
the Spin-off,  PepsiCo had no ownership in us.  Immediately  after the Spin-off,
however,  certain of our shares were held by the PepsiCo pension trust on behalf
of  PepsiCo  employees.  We have  entered  into  separation  and  other  related
agreements (the "Separation Agreement"),  outlined below, governing the Spin-off
transaction  and our  subsequent  relationship  with  PepsiCo.  Such  agreements
provide  certain  indemnities to the parties,  and provide for the allocation of
tax and other assets,  liabilities and obligations arising from periods prior to
the Spin-off. In addition, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell have each entered into a
multi-year  agreement  with  Pepsi-Cola  Company,  a wholly owned  subsidiary of
PepsiCo,  regarding  the  purchase of beverage  products.  We have also signed a
multi-year  agreement  with  PFS,  a  former  distribution  affiliate,  for  the
distribution  of certain  products and supplies to U.S.  Company units.  Neither
contract is for quantities expected to exceed normal usage.

     The Separation  Agreement  provided for, among other things, our assumption
of all  liabilities  relating to the  restaurant  businesses,  inclusive  of the
Non-core  Businesses,  and the  indemnification  of PepsiCo with respect to such
liabilities.  The  Separation  Agreement  provided  that  we pay,  prior  to the
Spin-off, $4.5 billion to PepsiCo as repayment of certain amounts due to PepsiCo
and as a  dividend.  The  net  investment  by and  advances  from  PepsiCo  were
preliminarily  determined to be approximately $3.4 billion at the Spin-off Date.
The  amount  we  repaid  to  PepsiCo  in   connection   with  the  Spin-off  was
approximately  $2.1  billion  and the  dividend we paid was  approximately  $2.4
billion.  PepsiCo  contributed to our capital its remaining  unpaid  advances of
approximately  $1.3  billion,  as  provided  by the  Separation  Agreement.  The
Agreement also specifies that PepsiCo shall make a final determination regarding
the net assets of the  restaurant  businesses  transferred to us at the Spin-off
Date.


This  determination  has been  preliminarily  completed,  but is  subject to our
agreement.  The  accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  reflect  our
estimates,  based on  available  information,  of the net assets  that should be
transferred.  The final approved  determination could vary from these estimates.
Any changes are not expected to materially affect future net income.

     In  addition,  a fee will be paid to  PepsiCo  for all  letters  of credit,
guarantees and  contingent  liabilities  relating to our businesses  under which
PepsiCo  remains  liable  until such time as they are  released,  terminated  or
replaced  by a  qualified  letter of  credit  covering  the full  amount of such
contingencies   under  such  letters  of  credit,   guarantees   and  contingent
liabilities.  Payments for such fees to PepsiCo during 1997 totaled less than $1
million.  We have  indemnified  PepsiCo  for any costs or losses  incurred  with
respect to such letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities.

     In  connection  with the  Spin-off,  PepsiCo  received  a  ruling  from the
Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") to the effect, among other things, that the
Spin-off would qualify as a tax-free  reorganization  under Sections 355 and 368
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Such a ruling, while generally
binding  upon the  IRS,  is  subject  to  certain  factual  representations  and
assumptions  provided by PepsiCo. The Company has agreed to certain restrictions
on its future  actions to provide  further  assurances  that the  Spin-off  will
qualify as tax-free.  Restrictions include,  among other things,  limitations on
the liquidation, merger or consolidation with another company, certain issuances
and redemptions of our Common Stock, the granting of stock options and the sale,
refranchising,  distribution or other disposition of assets. If we fail to abide
by such  restrictions  or obtain  waivers  from  PepsiCo  and, as a result,  the
Spin-off fails to qualify as a tax-free reorganization,  we will be obligated to
indemnify PepsiCo for any resulting tax liability, which could be substantial.

     Under  the  separation  agreements,  PepsiCo  maintains  full  control  and
absolute  discretion with regard to any combined or consolidated tax filings for
periods  through the  Spin-off  Date.  PepsiCo also  maintains  full control and
absolute discretion regarding common tax audit issues of such entities. Although
PepsiCo  has  contractually  agreed to, in good faith,  use its best  efforts to
settle all joint interests in any common audit issue on a consistent  basis with
prior practice, there can be no assurance that determinations so made by PepsiCo
would be the same as we would reach, acting on our own behalf.

     The  separation  agreements  specify  methods  for  allocation  of  assets,
liabilities  and  responsibilities  with  respect to certain  existing  employee
compensation  and  benefit  plans  and  programs.  Such  allocations  have  been
preliminarily  completed  for current and retired  employees  of the  restaurant
businesses.  In addition,  all vested PepsiCo options held by our employees were
not converted to TRICON options.  We have agreed to indemnify  PepsiCo as to any
employer payroll tax it incurs related to the exercise of such options after the
Spin-off.  Certain  provisions  of the  agreements  also govern the  transfer of
employees  between the parties during the  transition  period ending in 1998. We
have also agreed on  arrangements  between the parties  with  respect to certain
internal  software,  third-party  agreements,  telecommunications  services  and
computing services.

     Allocations  and  Determination  of Common  Costs in  Historical  Financial
Statements.  Prior to the Spin-off,  our  operations  were financed  through our
operating  cash flows,  refranchising  proceeds and  investments by and advances
from PepsiCo.  For this reason,  our  historical  financial  statements  include
interest  expense on our external debt plus an  allocation  of interest  expense
which had not previously  been separately  allocated by PepsiCo.  These interest
allocations  were based on PepsiCo's  weighted  average interest rate applied to
the average annual balance of investments by and advances from PepsiCo.

     Additionally,  our historical financial statements include an allocation of
PepsiCo's  previously  unallocated  general and administrative  expenses.  These
allocations were based on our revenue as a percent of PepsiCo's total revenue.





The amounts,  by year,  of the  historical  allocations  described  above are as
follows:

                                               through
                                            Spin-off Date     1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Interest allocated                              $   188    $   275     $  316

PepsiCo weighted-average interest rate             6.1%       6.2%       6.6%

General and administrative expense allocated    $    37    $    53     $   52

     We  believe  that the bases of  allocation  of  interest  and  general  and
administrative expenses were reasonable based on the facts available at the date
of their allocation. However, based on current information, such amounts are not
indicative  of  amounts  which  we  would  have  incurred  if  we  had  been  an
independent,  publicly owned entity for all periods  presented.  As noted in the
accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet,  our capital  structure  changed as a
result of the  Distribution  to PepsiCo  and bears  little  relationship  to the
average net  outstanding  investments  by and advances  from PepsiCo as the $4.5
billion  in  borrowings  to fund the  dividend  and  repayments  exceed  the net
aggregate  balance owed to PepsiCo at the Spin-off  Date. We will be required to
add personnel and incur other costs to perform services  previously  provided by
PepsiCo.  The full cost  reflective  of our capital  structure and our personnel
complement  will be included in our  Consolidated  Statement  of  Operations  as
incurred. See Note 16.

     For periods prior to the Spin-off,  income tax expense was  calculated,  to
the extent possible,  as if we had filed separate income tax returns. As PepsiCo
managed its tax position on a consolidated  basis,  which takes into account the
results of all of its  businesses,  our  effective  tax rate in the future could
vary significantly from our historical effective tax rates. Our future effective
tax rate will be largely  dependant on our  structure  and tax  strategies  as a
separate entity.

Note 4 - Items Affecting Comparability of Net Loss

     Certain large charges  (credits) are  identified  below due to either their
inherent  variability  or  unusual  nature to enhance  comparability  of periods
presented.  Facility  actions net loss (gain)  reflects  both our  initiative to
reduce  our  percentage  ownership  of total  system  units by  selling  Company
restaurants  to new  and  existing  franchisees  and  our  committing  to  close
underperforming stores. Impairment charges for restaurants we intend to continue
to use in the  business are also  included in facility  actions net loss (gain).
Unusual charges are primarily  related to the 1997 fourth quarter charge and the
1996 decision to dispose of our Non-core Businesses.


(a)  Includes  $410  million  ($300  million  after-tax)  related to 1997 fourth
     quarter charges. 
(b)  Includes  $120  million  ($125  million  after-tax)  related to 1997 fourth
     quarter  charges and an  additional  $54 million  ($34  million  after-tax)
     related to the 1997 disposal of the Non-core Businesses.


1997 Fourth Quarter Charges            U.S.      International       Worldwide
- ---------------------------         ----------   --------------    -------------

Store closure costs                 $     141    $         72      $       213
Refranchising losses                       77              59              136
Impairment charges for stores to 
  be used in the business                  12              49               61
                                    ----------   --------------    -------------
  Total facility actions net loss         230              180             410
                                    ----------   --------------    -------------
Impairment of investments in
  unconsolidated affiliates                                79               79
Severance and other                        18              23               41
                                    ----------   --------------    -------------
  Total unusual charges                    18             102              120
                                    ----------   --------------    -------------
Total fourth quarter charges        $     248    $        282      $       530
                                    ==========   ==============    =============

     The  fourth  quarter  charge  of  $530  million  ($425  million  after-tax)
represents  actions  taken to refocus  our  business.  The charge  included  (1)
underperforming store closures, primarily at Pizza Hut and internationally;  (2)
restaurants we intend to refranchise whose carrying amounts were reduced to fair
market value, less costs to sell; (3) impairment of certain restaurants intended
to be used in the business;  (4) impairment of certain joint  ventures;  and (5)
related personnel reductions.


(a)  Includes initial franchise fees in the U.S. of $39 million, $22 million and
     $8 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, and in International of $2
     million in 1997.  See Note 5. 
(b)  Includes a tax-free  gain of $100  million in 1997 from  refranchising  our
     restaurants in New Zealand through an initial public offering.



     The  impairment  charges  in 1997 and 1996  resulted  from our  semi-annual
impairment  evaluations of each restaurant to be used in the business.  We early
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of  Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed Of"
("SFAS 121"),  as of the beginning of the fourth  quarter of 1995.  The initial,
non-cash charge of $457 million ($324 million after-tax),  $120 million of which
related to our Non-core  Businesses,  resulted from our evaluating and measuring
impairment  of  restaurants  to be  used  in  the  business  at  the  individual
restaurant  level.  Previously,  we  evaluated  and  measured  impairment  if  a
restaurant  concept was  incurring  operating  losses and was  expected to incur
operating losses in the future.

     Unusual Charges

     Exclusive of the fourth quarter charge, unusual charges include $54 million
in 1997 and $246 million in 1996  resulting from our 1996 decision to dispose of
our remaining Non-core Businesses.  The 1996 charge represented the reduction of
the carrying amounts of the Non-core  Businesses to estimated fair market value,
less costs to sell. The estimated fair market value was initially  determined by
using estimated  selling prices based upon the opinion of an investment  banking
firm retained to assist in the selling  activity.  The 1997 charge  adjusted the
carrying  amount of the Non-core  Businesses to their actual selling prices less
costs to sell. In accordance with the terms of certain of these transactions and
the  PepsiCo  Separation  Agreement,  we retained  and are holding for  disposal
certain properties and operating lease  liabilities.  No value has been assigned
to these properties and all the lease liabilities,  net of the expected sublease
recoveries,  have been fully accrued.  The Non-core Businesses  contributed $268
million,  $394  million and $297  million to  revenues  in 1997,  1996 and 1995,
respectively.  Excluding the unusual  disposal  charges in 1997 and 1996 and the
$120  million  initial  impact  of  adopting  SFAS  121 in  1995,  the  Non-core
Businesses  realized  income of $10 million ($8 million  after-tax) in 1997, and
incurred  losses of $15 million  ($12  million  after-tax)  and $45 million ($37
million after-tax) in 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Note 5 - Franchise and License Fees

     Franchise  and  certain  license   arrangements  for  our  traditional  and
non-traditional points of distribution,  respectively, provide for initial fees.
The agreements  also require  continuing  fees based upon a percentage of sales.
Initial franchise fees from refranchising activities arise from an initiative we
adopted in late 1994 to reduce our percentage ownership of total system units by
selling Company units to new and existing  franchisees.  As disclosed in Note 2,
initial franchise fees from the refranchising activities are included as part of
refranchising gains.

                                             1997            1996         1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Initial fees, including renewal fees     $       86     $      43      $    28
Initial franchise fees from 
  refranchising activities                      (41)          (22)          (8)
                                         ------------   -----------    ---------
                                                 45            21           20
Continuing fees                                 524           473          417
                                         ------------   -----------    ---------
                                         $      569     $     494      $   437
                                         ============   ===========    =========


Note 6 - Property, Plant and Equipment, net

                                                      1997            1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Land                                               $     834         $    933
Buildings and improvements                             3,163            3,394
Capital leases, primarily buildings                      152              206
Machinery and equipment                                2,040            2,319
                                                   -----------       -----------
                                                       6,189            6,852
Accumulated depreciation and amortization             (2,928)          (2,802)
                                                   -----------       -----------
                                                   $   3,261         $   4,050
                                                   ===========       ===========


Note 7 - Intangible Assets, net

                                                      1997            1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reacquired franchise rights                        $     544         $    764
Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles            132              165
Goodwill                                                 136              171
                                                   -----------       -----------
                                                   $     812         $  1,100
                                                   ===========       ===========


     Accumulated  amortization,  included in the amounts above, was $508 million
and $550 million at year-end 1997 and 1996, respectively.

Note 8 - Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities

                                                    1997               1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accounts payable                                   $     453         $    526
Accrued compensation and benefits                        294              261
Other accrued taxes                                      103              121
Other current liabilities                                410              292
                                                   -----------        ----------
                                                   $   1,260         $  1,200
                                                   ===========       ===========




Note 9 - Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt

                                                     1997             1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term Borrowings
Current maturities of long-term debt             $        19      $        26
Other                                                    105               33
                                                 -------------    -------------
                                                 $       124      $        59
                                                 =============    =============
Long-term Debt
Senior, unsecured Term Loan Facility, 
  due October 2002                               $     1,968      $        -
Senior, unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, 
  expires October 2002                                 2,435               -
Capital lease obligations (see Note 10)                  140              222
Other, due through 2010 (7.8% and 8.2%)                   27               35
                                                 -------------    -------------
                                                       4,570              257
Less current maturities of long-term debt                (19)             (26)
                                                 -------------    -------------
                                                 $     4,551       $      231
                                                 =============    =============

     On October 2, 1997, we entered into a $5.25  billion bank credit  agreement
comprised  of a $2 billion  senior,  unsecured  Term Loan  Facility  and a $3.25
billion senior,  unsecured  Revolving Credit Facility which mature on October 2,
2002.

     The facilities are guaranteed by our principal U.S. subsidiaries.  Proceeds
of $4.5 billion of the initial $4.55 billion  borrowed under the facilities were
used to make the Distribution to PepsiCo. The $50 million of additional proceeds
has been used to provide cash collateral securing certain obligations previously
secured by PepsiCo, to pay fees and expenses related to the Distribution and the
bank credit facilities, and for general corporate purposes.  Interest on amounts
borrowed  is payable  at least  quarterly  at rates  which are  variable,  based
principally  on the London  Interbank  Offered  Rate  ("LIBOR")  plus a variable
margin  factor as defined in the credit  agreement.  At December 27,  1997,  the
weighted average interest rate was 6.6% which includes the effects of associated
interest  rate swaps.  See Note 11 for a discussion  of our use of interest rate
swaps, our management of inherent credit risk and fair value information related
to debt and interest rate swaps.

     At year-end  1997,  we had unused  revolving  credit  agreement  borrowings
available  aggregating  $692  million.  We pay a facility  fee on the  revolving
credit facility.  The margin factor and facility fee rate is determined based on
our  leverage  ratio or  third-party  senior  debt  ratings  as  defined  in the
agreement. Facility fees accrued at December 27, 1997 were $1.3 million.

     The credit facilities are subject to various covenants  including financial
covenants relating to maintenance of specific leverage and fixed charge coverage
ratios. In addition,  the facilities contain  affirmative and negative covenants
including,  among other things,  limitations on certain additional  indebtedness
including  guarantees  of  indebtedness,   cash  dividends,  aggregate  non-U.S.
investment  and certain  other  transactions,  as defined in the  agreement.  At
December 27, 1997, we are in compliance with all covenants  governing our credit
facilities. The credit facilities contain mandatory prepayment terms for certain
capital  market  transactions  and  sales  of  restaurants  as  defined  in  the
agreement. Once the Term Loan has been repaid in full, mandatory prepayments may
be required of the revolving  credit  agreement  which would reduce the facility
availability.  Absent this circumstance, under the terms of the Revolving Credit
Facility, we may borrow up to $3.25 billion until maturity. The Revolving Credit
Facility is also reduced for letters of credit.  Amounts borrowed under the Term
Loan Facility that are prepaid may not be reborrowed.





     The annual  maturities of long-term  debt through 2002,  excluding  capital
lease obligations, are 1998 - $5 million; 1999 - $12 million; 2000 - $4 million;
2001 - $3 million and 2002 - $4.4 billion.

 Note 10 - Leases

     We  have  non-cancelable  commitments  under  both  capital  and  long-term
operating leases, primarily for Company restaurants. Capital and operating lease
commitments expire at various dates through 2067 and, in many cases, provide for
rent  escalations  and renewal  options.  Most leases require payment of related
executory costs, which include property taxes, maintenance and insurance.

Future minimum commitments and sublease receivables under non-cancelable  leases
are set forth below:

                       Commitments                      Sublease Receivables
                ----------------------------      ------------------------------
                                                      Direct
                 Capital        Operating           Financing         Operating
                -----------   --------------       -------------     -----------

1998            $      26     $      253           $        3        $       12
1999                   24            219                    2                11
2000                   23            190                    2                 9
2001                   21            170                    2                 8
2002                   20            152                    2                 7
Later Years           153            801                   15                38
                -----------   --------------       -------------     -----------
                $     267     $    1,785           $       26        $       85
                ===========   ==============       =============     ===========


     At year-end  1997,  the present  value of minimum  payments  under  capital
leases was $140  million,  after  deducting  $127 million  representing  imputed
interest.

The details of rental expense and income are set forth below:

                               1997              1996             1995
                            -----------       -----------       ----------
Rental expense
  Minimum                   $     317         $     312         $    309
  Contingent                       30                32               27
                            -----------       -----------       ----------
                            $     347         $     344         $    336
                            ===========       ===========       ==========

Minimum rental income       $      19         $      16         $      8
                            ===========       ===========       ==========

Contingent  rentals  are based on sales in excess  of levels  stipulated  in the
lease agreements.

Note 11 - Financial Instruments

Derivative Instruments

     Our  policy  prohibits  the  use  of  derivative  instruments  for  trading
purposes,  and we have  procedures in place to monitor and control their use. As
of December 27, 1997, our use of derivative  instruments was limited to interest
rate swaps  entered  into with  financial  institutions  and  commodity  futures
contracts traded on national exchanges.




     Interest  rate swaps are entered  into with the  objective  of reducing our
exposure to interest rate risk. During 1997, we entered into interest rate swaps
to  effectively  convert a portion of our variable rate bank debt to fixed rate.
Reset  dates  and the  floating  rate  index  on the  swaps  match  those of the
underlying  bank debt.  Accordingly,  any market risk or opportunity  associated
with swaps is offset by the opposite  market impact on the related debt.  Credit
risk from the swap  agreements  is  dependent  both on the  movement in interest
rates and the  possibility of non-payment  by swap  counterparties.  We mitigate
credit  risk by only  entering  into swap  agreements  with high  credit-quality
counterparties  and by netting swap payments  within each contract.  At December
27, 1997, we had entered into  interest  rate swaps with notional  amounts of $1
billion.  Under the  contracts,  we agree with other  parties  to  exchange,  at
specified intervals, the difference between variable-rate and fixed-rate amounts
calculated on a notional principal amount. At December 27, 1997, the average pay
rate was 5.97%.  The payables under the related swaps  aggregated $.2 million at
December 27, 1997. The swaps mature at various dates through 2001.

     Open commodity  future  contracts and deferred gains and losses at year-end
1997 and 1996,  as well as gains and losses  recognized as part of cost of sales
in 1997, 1996 and 1995 were not significant.

Fair Value

     Except for guarantees issued by us and interest rate swaps outstanding, the
carrying amounts of our financial  instruments  approximate fair value. The fair
value of our  guarantees  issued was $18 million in 1997 and $13 million in 1996
compared to carrying  amounts of $0. The fair value of our  interest  rate swaps
was $1.5 million compared to a carrying amount of $.2 million.

Note 12 - Pension Plans and Other Benefit Programs

     We  sponsor   noncontributory   defined   benefit  pension  plans  covering
substantially all full-time U.S. salaried employees and certain hourly employees
and noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain international
employees.  Prior to the Spin-off, the participants in the plans were covered by
plans with  similar  benefits,  sponsored by PepsiCo.  Under an  agreement  with
PepsiCo,   we  have  assumed  or  retained   pension   liabilities   related  to
substantially  all of our  participants.  Assets of the PepsiCo  plans have been
allocated in accordance with regulatory  rules between the PepsiCo plans and our
plans.  Benefits  generally  are based on years of service and  compensation  or
stated  amounts  for each year of  service.  All plans  but one are  funded  and
contributions to U.S. plans are made in amounts not less than minimum  statutory
funding  requirements  nor more than the maximum amount that can be deducted for
U.S. income tax purposes.  The U.S. plans' assets consist  principally of equity
securities,  government  and corporate debt  securities  and other  fixed-income
obligations.

     The  components of net pension  expense for U.S. plans are set forth below.
Net periodic pension expense for international plans was immaterial.

                                                     1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Service cost of benefits earned                   $   18       $ 15     $    12
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation         17         15          12
Return on plan assets:
  Actual gain                                        (60)       (26)        (44)
  Deferred gain                                       41          9          29
Amortization of net transition gain                   (4)        (4)         (4)
Net other amortization                                 1          1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension expense                               $   13       $ 10     $     5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


     Reconciliations  of the  funded  status  of the U.S.  plans to the  pension
liability  recognized  in the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet are set forth below.
Amounts related to international plans were immaterial.


The assumptions used to compute the information above are set forth below:


                                       1997          1996            1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expected long-term rate of 
  return on plan assets                  10.0%            10.0%            10.0%

Discount rate - projected 
  benefit obligation                      7.1%             7.7%             7.7%

Future compensation growth rate     5.2 - 6.6%      5.2  - 6.6%       5.2 - 6.6%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     We also sponsor certain deferred compensation benefit programs for eligible
employees and non-employee directors that allow participants to defer receipt of
portions of their annual salary and incentive compensation. Amounts deferred are
credited with earnings based on certain phantom  investment  options selected by
the participants,  as defined by the benefit program. These earnings amounts are
expensed as incurred.  Our obligations  under these programs as of year-end 1997
and 1996 were $37 million and $29  million,  respectively.  In late 1997,  a new
investment option allowed  participants to defer certain incentive  compensation
earned in 1997 into the purchase of phantom  shares of TRICON  Common Stock at a
25%  discount  from  fair  market  value  at  the  date  of  deferral  in  1998.
Participants  bear the risk of  forfeiture  if they  voluntarily  separate  from
employment  during  the two year  vesting  period.  The  intrinsic  value of the
discount  will be expensed  over the vesting  period  stipulated  by the benefit
program.  Amounts  expensed under these programs for all periods  presented were
not significant.

Note 13 - Employee Stock-Based Compensation
(tabular options in thousands)

     At  year-end  1997,  we had two  stock  option  plans in  effect,  the 1997
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  ("LTIP")  and the TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.
SharePower Plan ("SharePower"). Options to purchase up to 22.5 million shares of
stock may be  granted  under the LTIP at a price  equal to or  greater  than the
market  value of the stock on the date of grant.  New  options  granted can have
varying vesting  provisions and exercise periods.  Options granted subsequent to
the Spin-off  vest in periods  ranging from  immediate to 2006 and expire ten to



fourteen  years after  grant.  Potential  awards to employees  and  non-employee
directors  under the LTIP include stock options,  performance  units,  incentive
stock options,  stock appreciation  rights and restricted stock. Only LTIP stock
options and restricted stock have been issued since the Spin-off.  Additionally,
it is not  anticipated  that any  further  grants  will be made  pursuant to the
SharePower plan although options previously granted could be outstanding through
2006.  We account for these plans under APB Opinion No. 25, as permitted by SFAS
123.

     At the Spin-off Date, certain of the options to purchase PepsiCo stock that
were held by our employees  were  converted to TRICON stock options under either
the LTIP or the  SharePower  plan.  The options  were  converted  at amounts and
exercise prices that maintained the amount of unrealized stock appreciation that
existed  immediately  prior to the  Spin-off.  The  vesting  dates and  exercise
periods of the  options  were not  affected  by the  conversion.  Based on their
original PepsiCo grant date,  TRICON  converted  options vest in periods ranging
from one to ten years and expire ten to fifteen years after grant.

     Had  compensation  cost for all  TRICON  option  grants  subsequent  to the
Spin-off to employees and non-employee directors been determined consistent with
SFAS 123, our net loss for 1997 would have  increased  from $111 million to $112
million.  The pro forma net loss may not be representative of future disclosures
since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense over the
vesting  period,  which was only a partial year in 1997, and additional  options
may be granted in varying  quantities in future  years.  SFAS 123 pro forma loss
per share data is not meaningful as we were not an  independent,  publicly owned
company prior to the Spin-off.

     The fair value of each option  grant made  subsequent  to the  Spin-off was
estimated as of the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model
with the following weighted average assumptions used for grants in fiscal 1997:

                  Risk-free interest rate                           5.79%
                  Expected life                                     6.6 years
                  Expected volatility                              27.5%
                  Expected dividend yield                             0%

     A  summary  of  the  status  of  all  options   granted  to  employees  and
non-employee  directors at December 27, 1997,  and changes  during the year then
ended is presented in the table below:

                                                       December 27, 1997
                                             -----------------------------------

                                                                    Wtd. Avg.
                                                 Options            Ex. Price
                                             ---------------      --------------

  Outstanding at beginning of year                   -            $       -
  Conversion of PepsiCo options                  13,951                 21.48
  Granted at price equal to market                  872                 32.95
  Granted at price greater than market            1,334                 31.63
  Exercised                                        (112)                24.80
  Forfeited                                        (800)                20.84
                                             ---------------      --------------
  Outstanding at end of year                     15,245           $    23.03
                                             ===============      ==============

  Exercisable at end of year                      1,251           $    23.84
                                             ===============      ==============

  Weighted average of fair value of 
    options granted                            $    13.37
                                             ===============




The following table summarizes  information about all stock options  outstanding
at December 27, 1997:


     In November 1997, we granted two awards of restricted  performance units of
TRICON's Common Stock to our Vice Chairman/President. The awards were made under
the LTIP and may be paid in Common Stock of TRICON or cash at the  discretion of
the Board of  Directors.  Payment  of the  awards,  totaling  $6.3  million,  is
contingent  upon  continued  employment  through  January  25,  2001  and  2006,
respectively,  and the attainment by TRICON of certain pre-established  earnings
thresholds,  as  defined.  The awards are being  expensed  over the  performance
periods  stipulated  above;  the amount  included  in  earnings  in 1997 was not
significant.

Note 14 - Income Taxes

The details of the income tax provision are set forth below:

                                   1997           1996            1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:          Federal      $     106       $     154       $     179
                  Foreign             77              93              59
                  State               31              28              24
                               -------------   ------------    ------------
                                     214             275             262
                               -------------   ------------    ------------
Deferred:         Federal            (66)           (127)           (168)
                  Foreign            (59)             (5)            (55)
                  State              (13)            (18)            (10)
                               -------------   ------------    ------------
                                    (138)           (150)           (233)
                               -------------   ------------    ------------
                               $      76       $     125       $      29
                               =============   ============    ============


U.S. and foreign (loss) income before income taxes are set forth below:

                       1997              1996                 1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S.               $      13          $     (21)           $      72
Foreign                  (48)                93                 (175)
                   -------------      ------------         ------------
                   $     (35)         $      72            $    (103)
                   =============      ============         ============


A  reconciliation  of income taxes  calculated at the U.S. Federal tax statutory
rate to our income tax provision is set forth below:



The details of the 1997 and 1996 deferred tax liabilities (assets) are set forth
below:

                                                   1997               1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangible assets and property, plant 
  and equipment                                $       253        $      250
Other                                                    5                15
                                               --------------     -------------
Gross deferred tax liabilities                 $       258        $      265
                                               ==============     =============

Net operating loss and tax credit 
  carryforwards                                $       (89)       $     (117)
Employee benefits                                      (48)              (56)
Casualty claims                                        (57)              (69)
Fourth quarter charge                                 (105)
Various liabilities and other                         (141)             (126)
                                               --------------     -------------
Gross deferred tax assets                             (440)             (368)
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance                111               138
                                               --------------     -------------
Net deferred tax assets                               (329)             (230)
                                               --------------     -------------
Net deferred tax (asset) liability             $       (71)       $       35
                                               ==============     =============

Included in:
Prepaid expenses, deferred income taxes 
  and other current assets                     $       (92)       $     (165)
Other assets                                           (12)
Deferred income taxes                                   33               200
                                               --------------     -------------
                                               $       (71)       $       35
                                               ==============     =============

     The  valuation  allowance  related to deferred tax assets  decreased by $27
million in 1997 primarily due to the disposal of the Non-core Businesses.

     The determination of the unrecognized  deferred tax liability for temporary
differences related to investments in foreign subsidiaries and foreign corporate
joint ventures that are  essentially  permanent in duration is not  practicable.



     Net operating loss carryforwards totaling $307 million at year-end 1997 are
available  to reduce  future  tax of TRICON  and  certain  subsidiaries  and are
related to a number of foreign and state jurisdictions.  Of these carryforwards,
$20 million  expire in 1998,  $221 million  expire at various times between 1999
and 2012 and $66 million may be carried forward indefinitely.

Note 15 - Business Segments

     We are  engaged  principally  in  developing,  operating,  franchising  and
licensing  the  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut  and  Taco  Bell  concepts.  We also
previously  operated  other  non-core  U.S.  concepts,  including  CPK,  Chevys,
D'Angelo, ESM and HNN, all of which were sold in 1997 prior to the Spin-off. See
Note 4.

     KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell operate  throughout the U.S. and in 78, 87 and
15  countries  and  territories  outside  the  U.S.,   respectively.   Principal
international  markets include Australia,  Canada,  China, Japan, Korea, Mexico,
Poland,  Puerto  Rico,  and the U.K. At year-end  1997,  we had  investments  in
several  unconsolidated  affiliates outside the U.S. which operate KFC and Pizza
Hut  restaurants,  the most  significant  of which are corporate  joint ventures
located in Japan and the U.K.




GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                    Revenues
                         -------------------------------------------------------
                                1997               1996                1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States             $     7,363         $    7,924         $     8,163
International                   2,318              2,308               2,087
                          -----------------   ----------------   ---------------
                          $     9,681         $   10,232         $    10,250
                          =================   ================   ===============

                                             Operating Profit
                         -------------------------------------------------------
                              1997(a)             1996(a)             1995(a)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States             $       397         $      304         $       328
International                     (30)               144                 (26)
Foreign exchange                  (16)                (5)                 (1)
Unallocated corporate 
  expenses                       (110)(b)            (71) (b)            (49)(b)
                          -----------------   ----------------   ---------------
                          $       241         $      372         $        252
                          =================   ================   ===============
                         
                                             Identifiable Assets
                          ------------------------------------------------------
                                1997               1996                1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States             $     3,637         $    4,566         $     4,883
International                   1,461              1,954               2,025
                          -----------------   ----------------   ---------------
                          $     5,098         $    6,520         $     6,908
                          =================   ================   ===============
                          
                                           Depreciation and Amortizaion
                          ------------------------------------------------------
                                1997               1996               1995
- ------------------------- ----------------- - ---------------- - ---------------
United States             $       393         $      472         $       519
International                     143                149                 152
                          -----------------   ----------------   ---------------
                          $       536         $      621         $       671
                          =================   ================   ===============
                          
                                              Capital Spending
                          ------------------------------------------------------
                                1997               1996                1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States             $       385         $      466         $       530
International                     158                161                 184
                          -----------------   ----------------   ---------------
                          $       543         $      627         $       714
                          =================   ================   ===============


(a)  Includes the fourth quarter charge in 1997 of $530 million (United States -
     $248 million,  International - $282 million), other unusual charges related
     to disposal of the Non-core  Businesses in 1997 and 1996 of $54 million and
     $246 million,  respectively, in the United States and the initial impact of
     adopting  SFAS 121 in 1995 of $457 million  (United  States - $320 million,
     International - $137 million).  See Note 4. 
(b)  Includes amounts allocated by PepsiCo prior to the Spin-off of $37 million,
     $53 million and $52 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     The financial data reported above is materially  consistent with restaurant
segment information  previously reported by PepsiCo.  Adjustments have been made
to these amounts  primarily to remove the impact of the restaurant  distribution
business  previously  included  by PepsiCo  in its  restaurant  segment,  and to
include  the  investment  in and our  equity  income  (loss)  of  unconsolidated
affiliates within the international  segment.  This change was made to align our
reporting with the way we view our international business.


Note 16 - Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited)

     As discussed in Note 3, we became an independent, publicly owned company on
October 6, 1997 as a result of the Spin-off from PepsiCo. In connection with the
Spin-off, we paid $4.5 billion to PepsiCo as repayment of certain amounts due to
PepsiCo and as a dividend.  Such payment was funded by advances of $4.55 billion
under a five-year $5.25 billion bank credit  agreement drawn on October 6, 1997.
See Note 9. The following unaudited pro forma information  presents a summary of
consolidated  results of operations as if the Spin-off and related  transactions
had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1997:

                                  As Reported        Pro Forma        Pro Forma
                                     1997           Adjustments         1997
                               ----------------   ---------------- -------------

Total revenues                 $     9,681        $     (268)      $    9,413
Total costs and expenses             9,440              (303)           9,137
Operating profit                       241                35              276
Interest expense, net                  276                41              317
Loss before income taxes               (35)               (6)             (41)
Net loss                              (111)               (6)            (117)
Loss per common share                 (.73)                              (.77)

     These  unaudited  pro forma  results have been  prepared for  informational
purposes only and include the following adjustments to historical results:

(1)  Elimination of the effect of our Non-core Businesses.
(2)  Additional  estimated  general,  administrative  and other  expenses of $20
     million,  which we would have incurred as an  independent,  publicly  owned
     company,  based on our analysis,  partially offset by non-recurring  TRICON
     start-up costs of approximately $14 million.
(3)  Elimination of the PepsiCo interest expense  allocation of $188 million and
     recording of interest expense of $232 million based on the $4.55 billion of
     external debt.
(4)  Estimation of the income tax impact for the pro forma  adjustments (1), (2)
     and (3).

     The shares used to compute pro forma loss per common  share were based upon
152 million shares,  assuming the shares issued at Spin-off had been outstanding
from the beginning of fiscal 1997.  The dilutive  effect of any options has been
excluded due to the loss from operations, as required by SFAS 128.

     Pro forma balance sheet  information  has not been provided as the Spin-off
and  related   transactions   have  been  reflected  in  the  accompanying  1997
Consolidated Balance Sheet.

     These  unaudited  pro forma  results do not purport to be indicative of the
results of operations  which actually  would have resulted had the  transactions
occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1997 or of our future results of operations.

Note 17 - Commitments and Contingencies

     We are subject to various  claims and  contingencies  related to  lawsuits,
taxes,  environmental  and other  matters  arising  out of the normal  course of
business.  We believe that the ultimate liability,  if any, in excess of amounts
already  recognized  arising from such claims or  contingencies is not likely to
have a material  adverse effect on our annual  results of operations,  financial
condition or cash flows.



     We were directly or indirectly  contingently  liable in the amounts of $302
million and $150 million at year-end  1997 and 1996,  respectively,  for certain
lease   assignments  and  guarantees.   In  connection  with  these   contingent
liabilities,  after  the  Spin-off  Date,  we were  required  to  maintain  cash
collateral balances at certain institutions of approximately $30 million,  which
is included in Other Assets in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. At
year-end 1997, $200 million represented  contingent  liabilities to lessors as a
result of our assigning our interest in and obligations under real estate leases
as a condition to the  refranchising  of Company  restaurants.  The $200 million
represented  the present value of the minimum  payments of the assigned  leases,
excluding any renewal option periods, discounted at our pre-tax cost of debt. On
a nominal basis, the contingent liability resulting from the assigned leases was
$294 million.  The balance of the  contingent  liabilities  primarily  reflected
guarantees  to  support   financial   arrangements  of  certain   unconsolidated
affiliates and other restaurant franchisees.

     We are currently  and, for a  significant  portion of the prior three years
ended  December 27, 1997,  have been  primarily  self-insured  for most workers'
compensation,  general liability and automotive liability losses, subject to per
occurrence and aggregate annual liability limitations. During 1997, prior to the
Spin-off,  we participated with PepsiCo in a guaranteed cost program for certain
coverages.  We are also  primarily  self-insured  for  health  care  claims  for
eligible participating employees subject to certain deductibles and limitations.
We determine our liability for claims  reported and for claims  incurred but not
reported on an actuarial basis.

Note 18 - Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

(a)  Earnings  per share data has not been  provided  for  periods  prior to the
     fourth  quarter  of 1997  as we were  not an  independent,  publicly  owned
     Company prior to the Spin-off.


See Note 4 for details of facility actions net gain (loss) and unusual charges.


Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements


To Our Shareholders:

We are responsible for the preparation,  integrity and fair  presentation of the
Consolidated Financial Statements,  related notes and other information included
in this annual report. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting  principles and include certain amounts based upon
our  estimates  and  assumptions,   as  required.  Other  financial  information
presented in the annual report is derived from the financial statements.

We maintain a system of internal control over financial  reporting,  designed to
provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of the financial  statements,
as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition.  The system
is supported  by formal  policies  and  procedures,  including an active Code of
Conduct program intended to ensure employees adhere to the highest  standards of
personal and professional  integrity.  Our internal audit function  monitors and
reports on the adequacy of and compliance with the internal control system,  and
appropriate actions are taken to address  significant  control  deficiencies and
other opportunities for improving the system as they are identified.

The financial  statements  have been audited and reported on by our  independent
auditors,  KPMG Peat Marwick  LLP,  who were given free access to all  financial
records  and related  data,  including  minutes of the  meetings of the Board of
Directors   and   Committees   of  the  Board.   We  believe   that   management
representations made to the independent auditors were valid and appropriate.

The Audit  Committee  of the Board of  Directors,  which is  composed  solely of
outside directors, provides oversight to our financial reporting process and our
controls to safeguard  assets  through  periodic  meetings with our  independent
auditors,  internal auditors and management.  Both our independent  auditors and
internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee.

Although no cost-effective  internal control system will preclude all errors and
irregularities,  we  believe  our  controls  as of  December  27,  1997  provide
reasonable assurance that our assets are reasonably safeguarded.







Robert C. Lowes
Chief Financial Officer













Report of Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:

We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet of TRICON Global
Restaurants,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  ("TRICON")  as of  December  27, 1997 and
December 28, 1996, and the related consolidated  statements of operations,  cash
flows and shareholders' (deficit) equity for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 27, 1997. These consolidated  financial statements are the
responsibility  of  TRICON's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  financial  position  of  TRICON as of
December 27, 1997 and December 28, 1996,  and the results of its  operations and
its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 27,
1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements,  TRICON in 1995
adopted the provisions of the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board's Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121,  "Accounting  for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."





KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
February 12, 1998










Item 9.  Changes  In  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure.

     None.

                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Information  regarding  directors is  incorporated  by  reference  from the
Company's definitive proxy statement which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after December 27, 1997.

     Information regarding executive officers of the Company is included in Part
I.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

     Information  regarding executive  compensation is incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will be filed with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission  no later than 120 days after  December 27,
1997.  Information  appearing in the sections entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Report on  Executive  Compensation"  and  "Performance  Graph"  contained in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement shall not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this report, notwithstanding any general statement contained herein
incorporating portions of such proxy statement by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     Information  regarding  security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is  incorporated  by reference  from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement  which will be filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission no
later than 120 days after December 27, 1997.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     Tricon and PepsiCo have entered into certain  agreements,  described below,
governing  their  relationship  subsequent to the Spin-off and providing for the
allocation of tax and certain other  liabilities  and  obligations  arising from
periods prior to and after the Spin-off.  The following  summarizes the material
terms of such  agreements,  but is  qualified  by  reference to the text of such
agreements.

     Separation Agreement

     PepsiCo  and  Tricon  have  entered  into  a  Separation   Agreement   (the
"Separation  Agreement"),  which  provides  for,  among  other  things,  certain
services,  records and personnel which PepsiCo and Tricon will make available to
each other after the Spin-off. To facilitate an orderly transition,  PepsiCo may
continue to provide,  for up to 12 months,  certain services to Tricon, with the
related costs and expenses being paid by Tricon.  The Separation  Agreement also
provides  for the  assumption  by Tricon of  liabilities  relating to  PepsiCo's
restaurant  businesses and the  indemnification  of PepsiCo with respect to such
liabilities.  Pursuant  to the terms of the  Separation  Agreement,  Tricon  was
required  to (and  did) pay to  PepsiCo  prior to the  Spin-off  the sum of $4.5
billion  as  repayment  of certain  amounts  due to  PepsiCo  from  Tricon and a
dividend.  The  Separation  Agreement  also  specifies that PepsiCo shall make a
final   determination   regarding  net  assets  of  the  restaurant   businesses
transferred to the Company at the Spin-off  date.  This  determination  has been
preliminarily completed, but is subject to agreement by the Company.



     Tax Separation Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon have entered into a Tax  Separation  Agreement (the "Tax
Separation   Agreement"),   on  behalf  of  themselves   and  their   respective
consolidated  groups,  that reflects each party's  rights and  obligations  with
respect  to  payments  and  refunds of taxes  that are  attributable  to periods
beginning  prior  to  and  including  the  Spin-off  and  taxes  resulting  from
transactions  effected  in  connection  with the  Spin-off.  The Tax  Separation
Agreement  also  expresses  each party's  intention  with respect to certain tax
attributes of Tricon after the Spin-off.  The Tax Separation  Agreement provides
for payments  between the two companies for certain tax  adjustments  made after
the Spin-off that cover pre-Spin-off tax liabilities. Other provisions cover the
handling of audits, settlements,  stock options,  elections,  accounting methods
and return filing in cases where both  companies have an interest in the results
of these activities.

     Pursuant to the Tax Separation Agreement, Tricon has agreed to refrain from
engaging in certain  transactions  for two years following the Spin-off  without
the prior written consent of PepsiCo.  Transactions  subject to this restriction
include,  among other things,  the  liquidation,  merger or  consolidation  with
another company,  certain  issuances and redemptions of Tricon Common Stock, the
granting  of stock  options,  the  sale,  refranchising,  distribution  or other
disposition  of  assets  in  a  manner  that  would  adversely  affect  the  tax
consequences of the Spin-off or any transaction  effected in connection with the
Spin-off, and the discontinuation of certain businesses. If the Company fails to
abide by this restriction  and, as a result,  the Spin-off fails to qualify as a
tax-free reorganization,  the Company will be obligated to indemnify PepsiCo for
any resulting tax liability, which could be substantial.

     Employee Programs Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon have entered into an Employee Programs Agreement,  which
allocates assets,  liabilities and responsibilities between them with respect to
certain  employee  compensation and benefit plans and programs and certain other
related matters.

     Telecommunications, Software and Computing Services Agreement

     PepsiCo and Tricon have  entered  into a  Telecommunications,  Software and
Computing Services Agreement setting forth the arrangements  between the parties
with respect to internal software,  third-party  agreements,  telecommunications
services and computing services.

     Beverage Agreements

     KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Tricon International have each entered into a
multi-year  agreement with Pepsi-Cola  Company  regarding the sale of Pepsi-Cola
beverage products at Company units worldwide.

     Certain Letters of Credit, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities

     Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Tricon agreed to use its best efforts
to release,  terminate or replace, prior to the Spin-off, all letters of credit,
guarantees  and  contingent   liabilities   relating  to  PepsiCo's   restaurant
businesses  under which  PepsiCo is liable.  Nevertheless,  after the  Spin-off,
PepsiCo  remains  liable on certain of such  letters of credit,  guarantees  and
contingent  liabilities  which  were  not  able to be  released,  terminated  or
replaced prior to the Spin-off.  Pursuant to the Separation Agreement,  from and
after the  Spin-off,  Tricon will pay a fee to PepsiCo  with respect to any such
letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities until such time as they
are  released,  terminated  or replaced  by a qualified  letter of credit with a
maximum drawing amount equal to the full amount of all remaining obligations and
foreseeable  claims  under such  letters of credit,  guarantees  and  contingent
liabilities.  At all times Tricon is required to indemnify  PepsiCo with respect
to such letters of credit, guarantees and contingent liabilities.



     Information   about  the   agreements   described   above  is  included  in
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis and the related  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 18 through 36; and Part II,
Item 8 pages 36 through 60, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     Information  regarding certain  relationships  and related  transactions is
also  incorporated  by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement
which will be filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission no later than
120 days after December 27, 1997.

                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)  (1) Financial Statements:  Consolidated  financial statements filed as part
         of this report are listed under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

     (2)  Financial  Statement  Schedules:  No schedules  are  required  because
          either the  required  information  is not  present  or not  present in
          amounts sufficient to require  submission of the schedule,  or because
          the  information  required is included in the financial  statements or
          the related notes thereto filed as a part of this report.

     (3)  Exhibits:  The exhibits listed in the  accompanying  Index to Exhibits
          are filed as part of this report.  The Index to Exhibits  specifically
          identifies each management  contract or compensatory  plan required to
          be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.

(b)  One report on Form 8-K was filed  during the  quarter  ended  December  27,
     1997.  This report  attached a copy of a press  release  dated  December 9,
     1997,  announcing  certain  strategic  actions  to be taken by the  Company
     during the fourth quarter.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 25, 1998

                              TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.


                              By:  /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
                                   ---------------------------------------------




     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following  persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                                Title                        Date
- ---------                        ----------------------          --------------


/s/ Andrall E. Pearson          Chairman of the Board            March 25, 1998
- ----------------------------    and Chief Executive 
Andrall E. Pearson              Officer (principal
                                executive officer)
                                


/s/ Robert C. Lowes             Chief Financial                  March 25, 1998
- ----------------------------    Officer (principal
Robert C. Lowes                 financial officer)
                                


/s/ Robert L. Carleton          Senior Vice President            March 25, 1998
- ----------------------------    and Controller
Robert L. Carleton              (principal accounting
                                 officer)
                               


/s/ D. Ronald Daniel            Director                         March 25, 1998
- ----------------------------
D. Ronald Daniel


/s/ James Dimon                  Director                        March 25, 1998
- ----------------------------
James Dimon




Signature                              Title                      Date
- ---------                           ----------                ----------------


/s/ Massimo Ferragamo                Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Massimo Ferragamo


/s/ Robert Holland, Jr.              Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Robert Holland, Jr.


/s/ Sidney Kohl                      Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Sidney Kohl


/s/ Kenneth G. Langone               Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Kenneth G. Langone


/s/ David C. Novak                   Vice Chairman of the      March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------     Board and President
David C. Novak                  


/s/ Jackie Trujillo                  Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Jackie Trujillo


/s/ Robert J. Ulrich                 Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Robert J. Ulrich


/s/ Jeanette S. Wagner               Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
Jeanette S. Wagner


/s/ John L. Weinberg                 Director                  March 25, 1998
- --------------------------------
John L. Weinberg









                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                                  Exhibit Index
                                    (Item 14)



Exhibit
Number                              Description of Exhibits

3.1*      Restated Articles of Incorporation of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

3.2*      Bylaws of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

4.**      Form of Indenture.

10.1      Separation  Agreement between PepsiCo,  Inc. and TRICON Global
          Restaurants, Inc. effective as of August 26, 1997, and the First 
          Amendment thereto dated as of October 6, 1997.

10.2      Tax  Separation   Agreement   between  PepsiCo,   Inc.  and  TRICON  
          Global Restaurants, Inc. effective as of August 26, 1997.

10.3      Employee  Programs  Agreement  between  PepsiCo,  Inc.  and  TRICON
          Global Restaurants, Inc. effective as of August 26, 1997.

10.4      Telecommunications,  Software  and  Computing  Services  Agreement  
          between PepsiCo,  Inc. and TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc. effective
          as of August 26, 1997.

10.5      Sales and Distribution  Agreement between PFS, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell 
          and KFC effective as of May 6, 1997.

10.6***   Credit  Agreement  dated as of  October  2,  1997  among  TRICON  
          Global Restaurants,  Inc., the lenders party thereto, The Chase 
          Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent, and Chase Manhattan Bank as 
          Issuing Bank.

10.7+     TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc. Director Deferred  Compensation  
          Plan, as effective October 7, 1997.

10.8+     TRICON  Global   Restaurants,   Inc.  1997  Long Term  Incentive  
          Plan,  as effective October 7, 1997.

10.9+     TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  1997  Executive  Incentive  
          Compensation Plan, as effective October 7, 1997.

10.10+    TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc. 1998 Executive  Incentive  
          Compensation Plan, as effective October 7, 1997.

10.11+    TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  Executive  Income  Deferral  
          Program, as effective October 7, 1997.

10.12+    TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  Long Term  Savings Program, as  
          effective October 7, 1997.



10.13+    TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan,
          as effective October 7, 1997.  (Draft)

10.14+    TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. Pension  Equalization Plan, as 
          effective October 7, 1997.

10.15+    Employment Agreement between TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and 
          Andrall E.  Pearson  dated as of June 25,  1997,  and  subsequently  
          amended  as of October 20, 1997.

10.16+    Terms of Employment  Agreement between TRICON Global Restaurants, 
          Inc. and Robert L. Carleton.

10.17     Form of Directors' Indemnification Agreement

12.1      Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges

21.1      Active Subsidiaries of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

23.1      Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

27.1      Financial Data Schedule



*    Incorporated  herein by reference from exhibits filed with the Registrant's
     Registration  Statement  on Form 10 (File  No.  1-13163)  filed  under  the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

**   Incorporated   herein  by  reference   from  Exhibit  4.1  filed  with  the
     Registrant's  Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-42969) filed
     with the Commission on December 22, 1997, and Amendment No. 1 thereto filed
     with the Commission on February 5, 1998.

***  Incorporated   herein  by   reference   from  Exhibit  10  filed  with  the
     Registrant's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
     6, 1997.

+    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan.

   

                                                                 


                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.1
                              SEPARATION AGREEMENT

     SEPARATION AGREEMENT, dated as of August 26, 1997 (as amended, supplemented
or otherwise modified, this "Agreement"),  by and between PepsiCo, Inc., a North
Carolina corporation ("PepsiCo"),  and TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc., a North
Carolina  corporation  ("TRICON")  and, as of the date  hereof,  a  wholly-owned
subsidiary of PepsiCo.

                              W I T N E S S E T H :

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo has engaged in the restaurant business through various of
its  subsidiaries  and affiliates  (PepsiCo and its  subsidiaries and affiliates
(other  than the  members  of the  TRICON  Group  (as such  term is  hereinafter
defined)) are collectively referred to herein as the "PepsiCo Group");

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo has decided to  consolidate  the assets and operations of
its  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco  Bell  businesses  (collectively,  the
"Restaurant  Businesses")  into TRICON and TRICON's  subsidiaries and affiliates
(TRICON and its subsidiaries and affiliates are collectively  referred to herein
as the  "TRICON  Group"),  and to  distribute  the  Common  Stock of TRICON on a
ten-for-one basis to the holders of PepsiCo Capital Stock (the  "Distribution");
and

     WHEREAS,  on or before October 6, 1997 (the "Distribution  Date"),  PepsiCo
will  transfer  to the  Agent  (as such term is  hereinafter  defined),  for the
benefit  of the  holders  of record  of  PepsiCo  Capital  Stock at the close of
business on September 19, 1997 (the "Record  Date"),  without any  consideration
being  paid by such  holders,  the shares of TRICON  Common  Stock then owned by
PepsiCo;

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein,
the  Parties  (as such term is defined in  Section  16 hereof)  hereby  agree as
follows:

     Section 1. The Distribution.  On or prior to the Distribution Date, PepsiCo
will transfer to BankBoston,  N.A., as distribution agent (the "Agent"), for the
benefit of holders of record of PepsiCo  Capital  Stock at the close of business
on the Record  Date,  the shares of TRICON  Common  Stock then owned by PepsiCo,
together with an irrevocable voting rights proxy in favor of the Agent. Prior to
the  Distribution  Date,  the Parties shall take such action with respect to the
TRICON Common Stock as is required to complete the  Distribution on the basis of
one share of TRICON  Common Stock for every ten shares of PepsiCo  Capital Stock
outstanding at the close of business on the Record Date.  PepsiCo shall instruct
the Agent to  distribute  such TRICON shares to the holders of record of PepsiCo
Capital Stock at the close of business on the Record Date.  All of the shares of
TRICON so issued shall be fully paid and  nonassessable.  The Distribution shall
be effective as of 11:59:59 p.m. on the Distribution Date.

     Section 2.  Governance  Documents.  TRICON shall take all action  necessary
such that, on the Distribution  Date, the Restated Articles of Incorporation and
Bylaws of TRICON shall be  substantially  in the forms filed with the Securities
and Exchange  Commission as exhibits to the Form 10 relating to the Distribution
(as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the "Form 10").

     Section 3. Books, Records,  Services and Access to Information.  (a) Except
as otherwise  provided in the attachments  hereto,  for a period of up to twelve
months from and after the Distribution Date (or such shorter period as set forth
on Schedule A hereto),  each Party  shall make  available  to the other,  during
normal business hours and in a manner which will not unreasonably interfere with
such Party's business, the services set forth on Schedule A hereto (collectively
"Transitional Services") to the extent that the same are reasonably


required  to  assist  in  effecting   an  orderly   transition   following   the
Distribution.  Except as  otherwise  provided  in the  attachments  hereto,  the
initial terms upon which  Transitional  Services  shall be provided to TRICON or
PepsiCo, as the case may be, are set forth on Schedule A hereto.

          (b) From and after the Distribution  Date, PepsiCo shall afford TRICON
     and  its  authorized   employees  and  representatives   reasonable  access
     (including access to persons or firms possessing  relevant  information and
     records) and reasonable duplicating rights during normal business hours to,
     or,  at  PepsiCo's  option,  copies  of,  all  records,  books,  contracts,
     instruments,  data  and  other  information  (collectively,  "Information")
     within the PepsiCo Group's possession  relating to any member of the TRICON
     Group, insofar as such access or copies are reasonably required by TRICON.

          (c) TRICON shall afford to PepsiCo and its  authorized  employees  and
     representatives  reasonable  access  (including  access to persons or firms
     possessing  relevant  information  and records) and reasonable  duplicating
     rights during normal business hours to, or, at TRICON's option,  copies of,
     all Information within the TRICON Group's possession relating to any member
     of the  PepsiCo  Group,  insofar as such  access or copies  are  reasonably
     required by PepsiCo.

          (d) Within 45 days after the  Distribution  Date,  each of PepsiCo and
     TRICON  shall  provide  the other  with such  indices  or  descriptions  of
     Information  as it may  maintain  relating  to  the  other  or the  other's
     subsidiaries or affiliates.  Information may be required under this Section
     3, without limitation,  for audit, accounting,  claims,  litigation and tax
     purposes,  as well as for purposes of fulfilling  disclosure  and reporting
     obligations.  In lieu of retaining any specific  Information,  either Party
     may, in writing,  offer to deliver such  Information to the other Party. If
     such offer is not accepted within 90 days, the Information so offered shall
     be retained or destroyed in  accordance  with  PepsiCo's  Record  Retention
     Policy. If such offer is accepted,  the Party accepting  delivery shall pay
     the  reasonable  out-of-pocket  costs of the  delivery.  Each  Party  shall
     maintain the  Information  in accordance  with the manner it treats similar
     material relating to its ongoing business.

          (e) At all times from and after the Distribution Date, each Party will
     use its  reasonable  best  efforts to make  available  to the  other,  upon
     written request, its officers, directors, employees and agents as witnesses
     to the extent that the same may  reasonably be required in connection  with
     any legal,  administrative  or other  proceedings  in which the  requesting
     Party may from time to time be involved.

          (f) Except as  otherwise  specifically  provided  for herein,  a Party
     providing  Information,  Transitional  Services or  witnesses  to the other
     hereunder  shall  be  entitled  to  receive  from the  recipient,  upon the
     presentation of appropriate  invoices  therefor,  payments for such amounts
     relating to supplies, disbursements, and such other costs and out-of-pocket
     expenses  as are  provided  for on  Schedule  A  hereto,  or  which  may be
     reasonably incurred in providing such Information, Transitional Services or
     witnesses.  Invoices  shall be due and payable  within  thirty (30) days of
     receipt.  Interest  shall accrue on any unpaid  amount at the rate of eight
     percent (8%) per annum.

          (g) PepsiCo shall arrange for the transportation of existing corporate
     records  in  its   possession   relating   exclusively  to  the  Restaurant
     Businesses,  including  original  corporate minute books, stock ledgers and
     certificates, and corporate seals of each corporation included in the group
     of which TRICON is the parent corporation, and all active agreements, deeds
     to  real  property,  active  litigation  files  and  filings  with  foreign
     governments,  if any, to  TRICON's  address set forth in Section 23 hereof.
     PepsiCo  shall  provide  TRICON  with  lists  of  trademarks,  patents  and
     copyrights of TRICON and its subsidiaries.

     Section 4. Confidentiality. Each member of the PepsiCo Group and the TRICON
Group  shall  hold,  and cause  each of their  respective  officers,  employees,
agents,  consultants and advisors to hold, in strict confidence,  all non-public
Information  concerning the other Party  furnished it by such other Party or its
representatives  pursuant to this Agreement,  unless  compelled to disclose such
Information by judicial or


administrative  process or, in the opinion of counsel,  by other requirements of
law (in which case such Party shall promptly  notify the other Party so that the
other Party may seek a protective or other appropriate  remedy);  and each Party
shall not release or disclose such  Information to any other person,  except its
auditors,  attorneys,  financial  advisors,  bankers and other  consultants  and
advisors  who shall be bound by the  provisions  of this  Section  4. Each Party
shall be deemed to have  satisfied  its  obligations  hereunder  with respect to
confidential  Information  supplied by the other Party if it exercises  the same
care as it does  with  respect  to  preserving  the  confidentiality  of its own
similar information.

     Section 5. Indemnification.  (a) Effective on the Distribution Date, TRICON
agrees to indemnify  and hold harmless each member of the PepsiCo Group and each
of their respective officers,  directors,  employees and agents from and against
any and all losses,  liabilities,  claims,  suits,  damages,  costs and expenses
(including,  without  limitation,  reasonable  attorneys'  fees  and any and all
expenses  reasonably  incurred in investigating,  preparing or defending against
any  pending  or  seriously  threatened   litigation  or  claim)  (collectively,
"Losses")  arising  out of or  related  in any  manner  to any item set forth on
Schedule B hereto.  Similarly,  effective on the  Distribution  Date,  except as
otherwise  provided in the attachments  hereto,  PepsiCo agrees to indemnify and
hold  harmless  each  member of the  TRICON  Group and each of their  respective
officers,  directors,  employees  and agents from and against any and all Losses
arising  out of or  related  in any  manner to any item set forth on  Schedule C
hereto.

          (b) If any action is  brought or any claim is made  against a Party or
     person in respect of which  indemnity may be sought  pursuant to subsection
     5(a) above (the "Indemnitee"),  the Indemnitee shall, within ten days after
     the receipt of  information  indicating  that an action or claim is likely,
     notify in  writing  the  Party  from whom  indemnification  is sought  (the
     "Indemnitor")  of the institution of the action or the making of the claim,
     and  the  Indemnitor  shall  have  the  right,  and at the  request  of the
     Indemnitee,  shall have the obligation, to assume the defense of the action
     or claim,  including the employment of counsel.  If the Indemnitor  assumes
     the  defense of the action or claim,  the  Indemnitor  shall be entitled to
     settle the action or claim on behalf of the  Indemnitee  without  the prior
     written consent of the Indemnitee  unless such settlement  would materially
     affect the ongoing business or employment of the Indemnitee.

          (c) The Indemnitee shall have the right to employ its own counsel, but
     the fees and expenses of that counsel  shall be the  responsibility  of the
     Indemnitee  unless  (i) the  employment  of that  counsel  shall  have been
     authorized in writing by the  Indemnitor in connection  with the defense of
     the action or claim; (ii) the Indemnitor shall not have employed counsel to
     have  charge  of the  defense  of such  action  or  claim;  or  (iii)  such
     Indemnitee  shall have  reasonably  concluded  that  there may be  defenses
     available to it which are different  from or additional to those  available
     to the Indemnitor (in which case the Indemnitor shall not have the right to
     direct  any  different  defense  of the  action  or claim on  behalf of the
     Indemnitee).  The Indemnitee shall, in any event, be kept fully informed of
     the  defense  of any such  action or claim.  Except as  expressly  provided
     above,  in the event that the Indemnitor  shall not previously have assumed
     the  defense  of an action or claim,  at such time as the  Indemnitor  does
     assume  the  defense  of the  action or  claim,  the  Indemnitor  shall not
     thereafter  be  liable  to any  Indemnitee  for  legal  or  other  expenses
     subsequently  incurred by the  Indemnitee  in  investigating,  preparing or
     defending against such action or claim.

          (d) Anything in this Section 5 to the  contrary  notwithstanding,  the
     Indemnitor  shall not be liable for any  settlement  of any claim or action
     effected without its written consent; provided,  however, that if after due
     notice the Indemnitor  refuses to defend a claim or action,  the Indemnitee
     shall have the right to defend and/or settle such claim or action,  and the
     indemnitee  shall  not  be  precluded  from  making  a  claim  against  the
     Indemnitor  for  reasonable  expenses and  liabilities  resulting from such
     defense and/or settlement in accordance with this Section 5.



          (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing  provisions of this Section 5, there
     may be particular  actions or claims which  reasonably could result in both
     Parties being liable to the other under the  indemnification  provisions of
     this  Agreement.  In  such  events,  the  Parties  shall  endeavor,  acting
     reasonably  and in good  faith,  to agree upon a manner of  conducting  the
     defense and settlement of the action or claim with a view to minimizing the
     legal expenses and associated costs that might otherwise be incurred by the
     Parties,  such as, by way of  illustration  only,  agreeing to use the same
     legal counsel

          (f) The  indemnification  provisions of this Section 5 shall not inure
     to the benefit of any third party By way of  illustration  only, an insurer
     who would  otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of
     the  responsibility  with  respect  thereto,  or,  solely  by Virtue of the
     indemnification provisions hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect
     thereto,  it being  expressly  understood and agreed that no insurer or any
     other third party shall be entitled to a "windfall"  (i.e.,  a benefit they
     would not be  entitled  to  receive in the  absence of the  indemnification
     provisions) by virtue of these indemnification provisions.

     Section 6. Taxes.  PepsiCo and TRICON have  entered  into a Tax  Separation
Agreement,  substantially  in the  form  attached  hereto  as  Attachment  1 (as
amended,  supplemented or otherwise  modified,  the "Tax Agreement"),  regarding
their  respective  rights and  obligations  with  respect to taxes of the TRICON
Group  for  all  periods  through  the  Distribution   Date  and  certain  other
tax-related  matters.  In the event of a conflict  between  the terms of the Tax
Agreement and the terms of this Agreement,  the terms of the Tax Agreement shall
govern.

     Section 7.  Employee  Benefits.  PepsiCo  and TRICON have  entered  into an
Employee  Programs  Agreement,  substantially  in the form  attached  hereto  as
Attachment 2 (as amended,  supplemented  or otherwise  modified,  the  "Employee
Programs Agreement"),  which allocates assets,  liabilities and responsibilities
between them with respect to certain employee compensation and benefit plans and
programs and certain other related  matters.  In the event of a conflict between
the Employee  Programs  Agreement and the terms of this Agreement,  the terms of
the Employee Programs Agreement shall govern.

     Section 8. Telecommunications, Software and Computing Services. PepsiCo and
TRICON will enter into a  Telecommunications,  Software and  Computing  Services
Agreement,  substantially  in the  form  attached  hereto  as  Attachment  3 (as
amended,  supplemented or otherwise modified,  the "T,S&C  Agreement"),  setting
forth the  arrangements  between the Parties with respect to internal  software,
third party agreements,  telecommunications  services and computing services. In
the  event of a  conflict  between  the  T,S&C  Agreement  and the terms of this
Agreement, the terms of the T,S&C Agreement shall govern.

     Section 9. Transfer of Entities,  Operations,  Assets and Liabilities.  (a)
Except  as set  forth on  Schedule  D hereto,  prior to the  Distribution  Date?
PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  use  reasonable  efforts  to  cause  the  entities,
operations, assets and corresponding liabilities of the Restaurant Businesses to
be included as part of the TRICON Group.  Both Parties agree to take such action
as may be necessary or appropriate, prior to the Distribution Date, to cause all
such restaurant-related  assets and liabilities (including,  without limitation,
all agreements relating thereto), except as provided on Schedule D hereto, to be
properly  conveyed  or  assigned  to TRICON  or the  appropriate  subsidiary  or
affiliate of TRICON.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement (including,
without limitation,  the Schedules and Attachments  hereto),  PepsiCo shall bear
the reasonable costs of such conveyances.

          (b) Except as expressly  provided herein,  TRICON agrees to assume and
     pay all  contracts,  obligations  and  liabilities  of each  member  of the
     PepsiCo Group associated in any way with the Restaurant  Businesses  and/or
     the Casual Dining Businesses (as such term is hereinafter defined), whether
     accrued,  absolute,  contingent or otherwise,  and whether due or to become
     due, including,  without  limitation,  all obligations of any member of the
     PepsiCo  Group acting as a guarantor of  obligations  associated in any way
     with any of the Restaurant  Businesses and/or the Casual Dining Businesses,
     and all obligations under leases and



     other executory  contracts and liabilities,  whether arising as a result of
     the transactions contemplated hereby, existing on the date hereof, or based
     on facts or actions arising on or prior to the Distribution  Date,  whether
     or not such obligations  shall have been disclosed  herein,  and whether or
     not  reflected on the opening  balance  sheet of the TRICON Group  prepared
     pursuant to Section 13 hereof (the "Opening  Balance Sheet "). For purposes
     of  this  Agreement,   the  term  "Casual  Dining  Businesses"  shall  mean
     California  Pizza  Kitchen,  Chevy's  Mexican  Restaurants,  Chimayo Grill,
     D'Angelo Sandwich Shops, East Side Mario's and Hot 'n Now.

          (c) In the event that the transfer of all such assets and  liabilities
     is not accomplished by the Distribution Date, the Parties agree that TRICON
     shall  have de facto  control  and  equitable  ownership  of the  entities,
     operations and assets, and de facto  responsibility for the obligations and
     liabilities,  intended to be  transferred  to the TRICON  Group;  provided,
     however, that if any uncompleted steps financially affect either PepsiCo or
     TRICON, the Parties agree to use their respective best efforts to equitably
     resolve any such financial impact

          (d) This Section 9 shall not inure to the benefit of any third party.

     Section 10. Letters of Credit,  Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities.  (a)
TRICON  shall  use its best  efforts  to cause the  beneficiaries  of all of the
PepsiCo Group's letters of credit,  guarantees and other contingent  liabilities
relating to any of the  Restaurant  Businesses or the Casual  Dining  Businesses
(including,   without  limitation,   commercial  letters  of  credit,  financing
guarantees, performance guarantees, lease guarantees, comfort letters, insurance
and workers' compensation liabilities, and the letters of credit, guarantees and
other contingent liabilities identified on Schedule E hereto) (collectively, the
"Restaurant Contingent  Liabilities") which will not have expired on or prior to
the Distribution  Date, to release and terminate all such Restaurant  Contingent
Liabilities  on or  prior to the  Distribution  Date  and,  where  necessary  or
appropriate,  to accept substitute  letters of credit,  guarantees or contingent
liabilities  issued  for  the  account  of  TRICON  or to post  sufficient  cash
collateral  on behalf of TRICON.  TRICON  hereby  agrees to provide to  PepsiCo,
prior to the  Distribution  Date,  a  schedule  (the "PHI  Contingent  Liability
Schedule")  listing all of Pizza Hut, Inc. 's letters of credit,  guarantees and
other contingent liabilities relating to any of the Restaurant Businesses or the
Casual Dining  Businesses  which have not been released,  terminated or replaced
with a Qualified Letter of Credit (as such term is hereinafter defined). The PHI
Contingent Liability Schedule shall supplement, and be incorporated by reference
into, Schedule E hereto. From and after the Distribution Date, TRICON will pay a
fee  based  upon the  maximum  exposure  related  to any  Restaurant  Contingent
Liabilities  which  were  not  released,  terminated  or  replaced  prior to the
Distribution  Date.  Such fee will be structured  as follows:  (i) for the first
year  following  the  Distribution  Date,  the fee will be  consistent  with the
pricing of TRICON's  senior  credit  facility as in effect from time to time and
will be expressed as a percentage of the value of the underlying  exposure,  and
(ii)  thereafter,  the  fee  will be  equal  to the  current  market  value,  as
determined  by The Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  for  replacing  all such  Restaurant
Contingent  Liabilities that have not yet been released,  terminated or replaced
by a Qualified  Letter of Credit.  Such fee shall be payable  monthly in advance
until such time as each such Restaurant  Contingent Liability has been released,
terminated  or  replaced by a Qualified  Letter of Credit.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  TRICON shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless each member of
the  PepsiCo  Group from and against all  losses,  liabilities  and  obligations
incurred  with  respect  to  such  Restaurant  Contingent  Liabilities.  Without
limiting the foregoing,  TRICON shall, upon demand, reimburse PepsiCo within ten
days for any  amounts  actually  paid by any  member of the  PepsiCo  Group with
respect to any such Restaurant Contingent Liabilities.

          (b) For  purposes of this  Agreement,  the term  "Qualified  Letter of
     Credit" shall mean an irrevocable,  transferable letter of credit issued to
     PepsiCo or its  relevant  subsidiary  or  affiliate  by a bank that is an A
     Credit (as such term is  hereinafter  defined),  substantially  in the form
     attached as Schedule F hereto,  with a term  extending to the last possible
     expiration date of the Restaurant  Contingent  Liabilities  covered thereby
     and with a maximum  drawing  amount that shall equal the full amount of all
     remaining   obligations  and   foreseeable   claims  under  the  Restaurant
     Contingent  Liabilities  covered  thereby  (assuming  the  exercise  of all
     extension


     options with respect to the  underlying  obligations).  In the event of any
     change in the law regarding  letters of credit  generally  that affects the
     language in a Qualified  Letter of Credit,  TRICON shall, at the request of
     PepsiCo,  provide a new  Qualified  Letter of Credit  containing  modifying
     language  as approved by PepsiCo.  The  language  contained  in the form of
     letter  of  credit  attached  as  Schedule  F hereto  shall be deemed to be
     approved by, PepsiCo.  For purposes of this Agreement,  the term "A Credit"
     shall  mean a  corporation  or banking  association  whose  long-term  debt
     obligations  are  rated A+ or A1 or  better  by  Standard  &  Poor's  or by
     Moody's, respectively, or their successors in interest that are "nationally
     recognized statistical rating organizations."

          (c) TRICON  agrees that no member of the TRICON  Group  shall  modify,
     amend or extend (including,  without  limitation,  pursuant to any existing
     option to extend) any of the leases for  property of the TRICON Group which
     have been guaranteed by a member of the PepsiCo Group  (including,  without
     limitation, the leases identified on Schedule G hereto) (collectively,  the
     "Leases")  so as to increase  or in any way enlarge the  duration of any of
     the  obligations or liabilities of any member of the PepsiCo Group pursuant
     to those  guarantees  without first obtaining the prior written approval of
     PepsiCo,  which approval may be withheld by PepsiCo in its sole discretion.
     TRICON hereby agrees to provide to PepsiCo, prior to the Distribution Date,
     a schedule  (the "PHI Lease  Schedule")  listing each lease for property of
     the TRICON Group which has been guaranteed by Pizza Hut, Inc. The PHI Lease
     Schedule shall supplement,  and be incorporated by reference into, Schedule
     G hereto.  TRICON  further  agrees that no member of the TRICON Group shall
     default  under or breach  any of the  Leases so as to cause or give rise to
     any claims, actions, suits or proceedings against any member of the PepsiCo
     Group  arising out of such  guarantees,  and hereby agrees to indemnify and
     hold  harmless  each member of the PepsiCo  Group from and against all such
     liabilities, costs and expenses (including, without limitation,  reasonable
     attorneys'   fees  and  any  and  all  expenses   reasonably   incurred  in
     investigating,  preparing  or  defending  against any pending or  seriously
     threatened  litigation or claim)  associated  therewith in accordance  with
     Section 5 hereof.  TRICON shall immediately notify PepsiCo,  in writing, of
     any  allegation or claim  asserted by any person or entity which might give
     rise to any  liability  or  obligation  of any member of the PepsiCo  Group
     under any such guarantee.

     Section 11.  Insurance.  (a) All  policies  of  liability,  fire,  workers'
compensation  and other  forms of  insurance  maintained  by the  PepsiCo  Group
insuring the products,  properties, assets and/or operations of the TRICON Group
shall continue in full force and effect up to and through the Distribution Date,
and except as set forth on  Schedule  H hereto,  shall be  terminated  effective
11:59:59 p.m. on the  Distribution  Date.  Any refunds of prepaid  premiums with
respect to such  terminated  insurance shall be for PepsiCo's  account.  PepsiCo
shall be responsible  for obtaining such initial  insurance  coverage for TRICON
from and after the  Distribution  Date in such amounts as are agreed upon by the
Parties. TRICON shall be liable for payment of all premiums with respect to such
initial insurance  coverage and all subsequent  coverage which TRICON thereafter
elects to obtain.  For purposes of this  Section,  insurance  coverage  does not
include any insurance for plans  described in the Employee  Programs  Agreement,
but does include ERISA fidelity bonds and/or fiduciary insurance.

          (b) With  respect to any  insurance  programs  relating  to the TRICON
     Group (including,  without limitation, any casualty insurance programs such
     as  public  and  products  liability  insurance,  insured  or  self-insured
     workers' compensation insurance and automobile liability insurance), TRICON
     shall be liable for payment of all claims  arising out of incidents,  known
     or unknown,  reported or unreported,  which occur prior to, on or after the
     Distribution  Date. Any reserves under these insurance programs relating to
     the TRICON Group for periods ending prior to, on or after the  Distribution
     Date shall be for the account of TRICON. Such reserves shall be included as
     liabilities  of TRICON,  and any charge or credit to the reserves  shall be
     for TRICON's account.

     Section 12 Banking  and Other  Arrangements.  The  responsibility  for bank
accounts used  exclusively by the TRICON Group shall be transferred from PepsiCo
to  TRICON  on or prior to the  Distribution  Date.  Normal  procedures  will be
followed for receipts and  disbursements  funding prior to the Distribution Date
as set forth on Schedule I hereto.


     Section 13.  Procedures for Closing and Delivery of Books and Balance Sheet
and Payment of Certain Amounts to PepsiCo.  Financial statements of TRICON as of
the  Distribution  Date,  which shall be summaries  of the  combined  accounting
ledgers of the TRICON  Group as of the close of the tenth  accounting  period of
the 1997 fiscal year, and which shall include an Opening Balance Sheet, shall be
prepared by PepsiCo within 45 days after the Distribution  Date and reviewed and
agreed to by TRICON within 15 days after such financial statements are prepared.
Each Party shall bear its own expenses in connection  with the  preparation  and
review  of  such  financial  statements.  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  agree  that  the
principles for determining the Opening Balance Sheet are as follows:

          (a) Total  Assets  shall be  determined  through the normal  reporting
     process using U.S. generally  accepted  accounting  principles  ("GAAP") as
     applied  on a basis  substantially  consistent  with the basis  used in the
     preparation of the financial  statements of TRICON presented in the Form 10
     and standard  PepsiCo  definitions  and accounting  practice,  consistently
     applied.

          (b) Non-Interest  Bearing  Liabilities shall be determined through the
     normal  reporting  process  using GAAP as applied on a basis  substantially
     consistent  with  the  basis  used  in the  preparation  of  the  financial
     statements  of  TRICON  presented  in  the  Form  10 and  standard  PepsiCo
     definitions  and accounting  practice,  consistently  applied.  Accrued tax
     liabilities  shall be treated in accordance  with the provisions of the Tax
     Agreement.

          (c) Net Assets is the sum of total  assets less  non-interest  bearing
     liabilities.  Net  Assets  shall  be  determined  in  accordance  with  the
     following capitalization procedure:

               (i) Short and  Long-Term  Debt shall be  determined  through  the
          normal   reporting   process   using   GAAP  as  applied  on  a  basis
          substantially consistent with the basis used in the preparation of the
          financial  statements of TRICON  presented in the Form 10 and standard
          PepsiCo definitions and accounting practice, consistently applied. The
          Opening  Balance  Sheet will  reflect  at least  $4.5  billion of debt
          obligations  to be incurred by TRICON on or prior to the  Distribution
          Date; and $4.5 billion of the proceeds of such debt  obligations  will
          be  transferred  to  PepsiCo on or prior to the  Distribution  Date as
          repayment of certain  amounts due to PepsiCo from the TRICON Group and
          a dividend.

               (ii)  Stockholders'  Equity of TRICON  will equal the  difference
          between  the total Net  Assets  less the Short and  Long-Term  Debt on
          TRICON's Opening Balance Sheet as of the Distribution Date.

               Any  amounts  due  PepsiCo  by  the  TRICON   Group   related  to
          intercompany  accounts (other than those accounts which are defined as
          intercompany trade receivables and payables in accordance with PepsiCo
          financial  policies) or other promissory notes in excess of the amount
          set forth in (i)  immediately  above,  which will cover  repayment  of
          certain  amounts  due to  PepsiCo  from  the  TRICON  Group,  will  be
          capitalized by PepsiCo.

     Section 14. Operation Until Closing. TRICON agrees, on behalf of itself and
each  member  of the  TRICON  Group,  that  through  the  Distribution  Date the
Restaurant  Businesses  shall be operated in the  ordinary  course of  business,
consistent with past practice.

     Section  15.   De-Identification.   As  soon  as   practicable   after  the
Distribution  Date, and in no event later than 120 days after such Date,  TRICON
shall eliminate all exterior and interior  signage and other  identification  in
its  possession or control,  and cease using any  letterhead,  which  identifies
TRICON or any other entity  within the TRICON Group as a subsidiary or affiliate
of PepsiCo.


     Section 16. Parties.  As used in this  Agreement,  the term "Parties" shall
include  the  PepsiCo  Group and its  successors,  and the TRICON  Group and its
successors.  Each of PepsiCo  and TRICON  agrees that it shall cause each of its
subsidiaries and affiliates to comply fully with the terms of this Agreement.

     Section  17.  Expenses.  Except  as set  forth on  Schedule  J hereto or as
otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement  (including,  without  limitation,  the
Schedules  and  Attachments   hereto),  all  expenses  in  connection  with  the
Distribution  shall be borne by PepsiCo and all expenses in connection  with the
ongoing  operations  and/or  businesses  of the TRICON  Group  shall be borne by
TRICON.

     Section 18. Tax  Gross-Up.  If any amount paid by any member of the PepsiCo
Group  or the  TRICON  Group,  as the case may be,  pursuant  to this  Agreement
results in any  increased  Tax  liability  or  reduction of any Tax Asset of the
TRICON Group or the PepsiCo  Group,  respectively,  then  PepsiCo or TRICON,  as
appropriate,  shall  indemnify  the other  Party and hold it  harmless  from and
against any interest or penalty  attributable to such increased Tax liability or
the reduction of such Tax Asset and shall pay to the other Party, in addition to
amounts  otherwise owed, the After-Tax  Amount.  Capitalized  terms used in this
Section 18 but not otherwise  defined in this Agreement  shall have the meanings
assigned to such terms in the Tax Agreement.

     Section 19. Survival. All of the provisions of this Agreement shall survive
the Distribution Date.

     Section  20.  Other  Provisions.  This  Agreement  shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, may not be
assigned by either  Party  without the written  consent of the other,  and shall
bind and  inure to the  benefit  of the  Parties  hereto  and  their  respective
successors  and  permitted  assignees.   This  Agreement  may  not  be  amended,
supplemented  or otherwise  modified except by an agreement in writing signed by
PepsiCo and TRICON.  This  Agreement  may be executed in  counterparts,  each of
which  shall  be  deemed  to be an  original  and all of  which  together  shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

     Section  21.   Arbitration.   (a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  the
attachments  hereto, any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this
Agreement,  or the breach hereof,  shall be settled by arbitration in accordance
with  the  then  prevailing   Commercial   Arbitration  Rules  of  the  American
Arbitration Association (the "AAA") as such rules may be modified herein.

          (b) An award rendered in connection  with an  arbitration  pursuant to
     this Section shall be final and binding and judgment upon such an award may
     be entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.

          (c) The forum for arbitration  under this Section shall be agreed upon
     by the Parties, or, failing such agreement, shall be New York, New York.

          (d)  Arbitration  shall be conducted by a single  arbitrator  selected
     jointly  by  PepsiCo  and  TRICON.  If  within 30 days  after a demand  for
     arbitration  is made,  PepsiCo  and  TRICON are unable to agree on a single
     arbitrator, three arbitrators shall be appointed. Within 30 days after such
     inability to agree, PepsiCo and TRICON shall each select one arbitrator and
     those two  arbitrators  shall then select a third  arbitrator  unaffiliated
     with  either  Party.   In  connection  with  the  selection  of  the  third
     arbitrator,  consideration  shall be given to  familiarity  with  corporate
     divestiture  transactions  and  experience  in dispute  resolution  between
     parties,  as a judge or otherwise.  If the arbitrators  selected by PepsiCo
     and TRICON cannot agree on the third arbitrator  within such 30 day period,
     they shall promptly  thereafter  discuss the  qualifications  of such third
     arbitrator  with  the AAA  prior to  selection  of such  arbitrator,  which
     selection shall be in accordance with the Commercial  Arbitration  Rules of
     the AAA.

          (e) If an  arbitrator  cannot  continue to serve,  a  successor  to an
     arbitrator selected by PepsiCo or TRICON, as the case may be, also shall be
     selected by the same Party, and a successor to the neutral arbitrator


     shall be selected as specified in subsection  (d) of this  Section.  A full
     rehearing will be held only if the neutral arbitrator is unable to continue
     to serve or if the  remaining  arbitrators  unanimously  agree  that such a
     rehearing is appropriate.

          (f) The arbitrator or arbitrators  shall be guided,  but not bound, by
     the  Federal  Rules of  Evidence  and by the  procedural  rules,  including
     discovery  provisions,  of  the  Federal  Rules  of  Civil  Procedure.  Any
     discovery  shall  be  limited  to  information  directly  relevant  to  the
     controversy or claim in arbitration.

     Section 22. Limitation on Subsequent  Activities.  PepsiCo agrees,  without
any separately  bargained for  consideration,  but rather as an integral part of
the  transfer  of  the  Restaurant  Businesses  to  the  TRICON  Group  and  the
Distribution provided for in this Agreement, that it shall not directly, through
a subsidiary or affiliate, or otherwise,  through October l, 2000, open anywhere
in the  United  States or Canada a  restaurant  substantially  identical  to the
restaurant  concepts  operated by the TRICON Group at the opening of business on
the day following the Distribution Date. PepsiCo acknowledges that the remedy at
law for any breach of the  foregoing  covenant  would be  inadequate  and in the
event of any such breach TRICON shall be entitled to injunctive relief.

     Section 23. Notices. Any notice, demand, claim or other communication under
this  Agreement  shall be in writing  and shall be deemed to have been given (i)
upon  the  delivery  thereof  if  delivered   personally   (including,   without
limitation,  by courier),  (ii) three days after being sent by  certified  mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (iii) upon receipt of confirmation
of a  telecopy  transmission,  in each  case  to the  Parties  at the  following
addresses  (or at such  other  address  as a Party may  specify by notice to the
other):

If to PepsiCo:

                         PepsiCo, Inc.
                         700 Anderson Hill Road
                         Purchase, NY 10577-1444
                         Telecopy No.: (914) 253-3123
                         Attention: General Counsel

If to TRICON:

                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                         1441 Gardiner Lane
                         Louisville, KY 40213
                         Telecopy No.: (502) 456-8300
                         Attention: General Counsel



     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Agreement to
be duly executed as of the date and year first above written.

                                        PepsiCo, Inc.


                                        By    /s/  Karl M. von der Heyden
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Karl M. von der Heyden
                                             Chief Financial Officer


                                        TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.


                                        By    /s/  Andrall E. Pearson
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Andrall E. Pearson
                                             Chairman of the Board






                       INDEX TO SCHEDULES AND ATTACHMENTS




SCHEDULES

Schedule A  -  Transitional Services
Schedule B  -  TRICON Indemnification Obligations
Schedule C  -  PepsiCo Indemnification Obligations
Schedule D  -  Restaurant Entities,  Operations,  Assets and Liabilities not
               being Transferred to the TRICON Group
Schedule E  -  Letters of Credit, Guarantees and Other Contingent Liabilities
               Issued by the PepsiCo Group
Schedule F  -  Form of Qualified Letter of Credit
Schedule G  -  Restaurant  Leases which have been  Guaranteed by the PepsiCo 
               Group
Schedule H  -  Restaurant Insurance which will not be Terminated as of the
               Distribution Date
Schedule I  -  Restaurant Funding Structure Prior to the Distribution Date
Schedule J  -  Expenses


ATTACHMENTS

Attachment 1  -  Tax Separation Agreement
Attachment 2  -  Employee Programs Agreement
Attachment 3  -  Telecommunications, Software and Computing Services Agreement









                                                                      SCHEDULE B


                       TRICON INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS


     Items with  respect to which  TRICON will  indemnify  the PepsiCo  Group in
accordance with Section 5 of this Separation Agreement:

     (1) All  Losses  arising  out of or  related  in any  manner  to any of the
Restaurant  Businesses,  as such businesses have been conducted in the past, are
currently  conducted  or may in the  future be  conducted,  whether  or not such
Losses  are  asserted  prior to the  Distribution  Date and  whether or not such
Losses are based upon PepsiCo or any of its  subsidiaries or affiliates  being a
direct party to a transaction or agreement.

     (2) All Losses arising out of or related in any manner to any of the Casual
Dining Businesses  and/or any other restaurant  business in which PepsiCo or any
of its  subsidiaries  or affiliates has been involved,  as such  businesses were
conducted by any member of the PepsiCo Group or the TRICON Group, whether or not
such Losses are asserted prior to the Distribution  Date and whether or not such
Losses are based upon PepsiCo or any of its  subsidiaries or affiliates  being a
direct party to a transaction or agreement.

     (3) All Losses  arising  out of or related in any manner to any  letters of
credit,  guarantees  or  contingent  liabilities  relating  to  (i)  any  of the
Restaurant Businesses,  the Casual Dining Businesses and/or any other restaurant
business in which  PepsiCo or any of its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates  has been
involved,  or (ii) any obligations of any member of the TRICON Group (including,
without  limitation,   commercial  letters  of  credit,   financing  guarantees,
performance  guarantees,  lease guarantees,  comfort letters,  and insurance and
workers'  compensation  liabilities),  whether or not such  Losses are  asserted
prior to the Distribution Date.

     (4) All Losses  arising out of or related in any manner to (i) the Borrower
Receivable  Purchase and Sale  Agreement,  dated as of December 13, 1995,  among
Taco Bell Corp., as Seller,  Corporate Asset Funding Company, Inc., as Investor,
and  Citicorp  North  America,  Inc.,  as  Investor  Agent,  or (ii) the  Parent
Undertaking Agreement, dated as of December 13, 1995, related thereto.

     (5)  All  Losses  arising  out of or  related  in  any  manner  to (i)  the
Commitment  Letter,  dated  August 26,  1997 (the  "Commitment  Letter"),  among
TRICON,  PepsiCo,  The Chase Manhattan Bank, Chase  Securities  Inc.,  Citibank,
N.A., Citicorp Securities, Inc., Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, J.P.
Morgan Securities,  Inc.,  NationsBank,  N.A., and NationsBanc  Capital Markets,
Inc.,  (ii) the Summary of Terms and  Conditions  referred to therein (the "Term
Sheet"), and/or (iii) any of the credit facilities referred to in the Commitment
Letter and/or the Term Sheet.



                                                                      SCHEDULE C


                       PEPSICO INDEMNIFICATION OBLIGATIONS


     Items with  respect to which  PepsiCo  will  indemnify  the TRICON Group in
accordance with Section 5 of this Separation Agreement:

     (1) All  Losses  arising  out of or  related in any manner to either of the
Pepsi-Cola or Frito-Lay  businesses,  as such  businesses have been conducted in
the past, are currently conducted or may in the future be conducted,  whether or
not such Losses are asserted prior to the Distribution Date.

     (2) All Losses  arising  out of or related in any manner to any  contingent
liabilities relating to (i) either of the Pepsi-Cola or Frito-Lay businesses, or
(ii) any  obligations  of any member of the PepsiCo  Group,  whether or not such
Losses are asserted prior to the Distribution Date.



                                                                      SCHEDULE D



             RESTAURANT ENTITIES, OPERATIONS, ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
                    NOT BEING TRANSFERRED TO THE TRICON GROUP



Entities
- --------

Pizza Hut, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Bell Taco Funding Syndicate,  an Australian  partnership (financing vehicle) PFS
de  Mexico  S.A.  de C.V.,  a  corporation  organized  under  the laws of Mexico
Kentucky Fried Chicken Nederland, B.V., a corporation organized under the laws
  of the Netherlands
PepsiCo do Brasil Ltda.
United Food Companies Restaurants S. A.
Mapumar
Entities not solely in the restaurant business


Operations
- ----------

None


Assets
- ------

None


Liabilities
- -----------

None






                                                                              
1Pizza Hut, Inc. obligations will be included on a supplement to this schedule.




































   
                                   Schedule 1
                                       to
                      Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
                                    No. XXXXX



  L/C, Guarantee or
Contingent Obligation
      Number             Beneficiary         Amount              Expiry Date
- ---------------------    -----------         ------              -----------











                                     Annex 1
                                       to
                      Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
                                    No. XXXXX


                               Form of Sight Draft

[Insert date]


US$
   -----------------------

Pay to the order of the  undersigned  the amount of $ drawn on  [Insert  name of
bank] as issuer  of  Irrevocable  Standby  Letter of  Credit  No.  XXXXX,  dated
- ----------- XXXXX, to Account No. , [Insert name of bank]. ------



PepsiCo, Inc.


By:
     --------------------------------------
      Title:







                                     Annex 2
                                       to
                      Irrevocable Standby Letter of Credit
                                    No. XXXXX



Drawing Certificate


[Insert name of bank]
[Insert address of bank]

Attention:
          ------------------------------

Gentlemen:

     The undersigned  individual,  a duly authorized  officer of PepsiCo,  Inc.,
hereby  certifies as follows  with respect to that certain  Letter of Credit No.
XXXXX  ("L/C") dated XXXXXX issued by [Insert name and address of bank] in favor
of PepsiCo, Inc.:

          The amount of this  drawing  represents  funds due  PepsiCo,  Inc.  as
     reimbursement  for the drawing(s) under the following  letter(s) of credit,
     guarantee(s) or other contingent liabilit(ies) set forth on Schedule "1" to
     Letter of Credit No.  XXXXX and  PepsiCo,  Inc.  is entitled to receive the
     amount of the sight draft accompanying this certificate:

L/C, Guarantee or
   Contingent
Obligation Number          Beneficiary       Amount            Expiry Date
- -----------------        --------------      ------            ------------





                          [Insert relevant information]

          In witness  whereof,  the  beneficiary has executed and delivered this
     Certificate as of the ---- day of --------- ,--- .

                                                  PepsiCo, Inc.


                                                  By:
                                                       -------------------------
                                                  Title:


                                                                      SCHEDULE G

                        RESTAURANT LEASES WHICH HAVE BEEN
                         GUARANTEED BY THE PEPSICO GROUP
                        --------------------------------- 



                  Guarantee           Maturity   Effective
Lessee              Number     Seq      Date       Date          Lessor
- ------            ---------   ----    --------    ------    --------------------
KFC of California   211        1     10/28/11   10/28/91    Solomon Real Estate

     20 Hempstead  Ave.,  Hempstead,  NY, Nassau County 
     210 E. Main St,  Montauk Hwy, Bayshore,  NY, Suffolk County 
     479 N. Main St., Freeport,  NY, Nassau County 
     1164 Jericho  Tnpk,  Commack  (Smithtown,  NY),  Suffolk  County  
     508  E.  Main  St., Patchogue, NY, Suffok County 
     5002 Hempstead Tnpk, Farmingdale, NY, Nassau County
     155 W. Suffolk Ave.,  Central  Islip,  NY, Suffolk County 
     1453 Forest Park Ave., Staten Island, NY, Richmond, NY 
     56 Glen Cove Rd., Greenvale,  NY, Nassau County
     221 Jericho Tnpk, Huntington, NY, Suffolk County 
     705 Old Country Road, Westbury, NY, Nassau County 
     910 Broadway,  Amityville,  NY,  Suffolk County 
     1617 Deer Park Ave., Deer Park, NY, Suffolk County 
     1550 Straight Path,  Wyandanch,  NY, Suffolk County

Nudelmacher GmbH    1260       3    10/21/97   10/21/96 Volksbank Ludwigsburg eG

     Friedrich-Ebert-Str. 120, 45473 Mulheim, Germany

Pizza Hut of Cincinnati  87    1   6/30/04     1/25/90           NEK Partners

     8341 Beechmont Ave., Anderson Township, Hamilton County, Ohio

Pizza Hut of Cincinnati  203   1   3/25/05     2/1/92     Anthony J. Nickert and
                                                             Joan A. Nickert

Pizza Hut of Cincinnati   90   1   3/31/09   1/25/90 Patrician Center Associates

     K Mart, Edgewood, KY

Pizza Hut of Cincinnati   86   1   3/31/14   1/25/90          NEK Partners

     Eight Mile Rd., Anderson Township, Hamilton County, Ohio

Taco Bell Corp.         401    1   2/15/99   3/15/79      First National Realty

     Hilltop Plaza, Bolingbrook, IL



                                                                      SCHEDULE H

                     RESTAURANT INSURANCE WHICH WILL NOT BE
                      TERMINATED AS OF THE DISTIBUTION DATE
                    ----------------------------------------


Insured      Policy Type    Insurance Company      Policy Number     Policy Term
- -------      -----------    -----------------      -------------     -----------

Taco Bell    Contaminated   National Union Fire    649-6350       2/1/97-2/28/98
             Products       Insurance

Taco Bell    Surety Bond    Travelers/Aetna        86S100605626      Continuous

KFC          Surety Bond    Federal Insurance      All Surety Bonds  Continuous

Pizza Hut    Surety Bond    Firemans Fund          All Surety Bonds  Continuous




                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                          RESTAURANT FUNDING STRUCTURE
                         PRIOR TO THE DISTRIBUTION DATE
                         ------------------------------


Current Funding Structure:
- -------------------------
                                                      Disbursements Funded by
                                                      Wire from PepsiCo Master
            Cash Collected via Cash Concentration   Concentration Account into a
                   and  Drawdown Wires               PepsiCo Master Disbursement
Miscellaneous Depository             PepsiCo               Funding Account
    Accounts                  Master Concentration
                                 Account-Chase
                                                          PepsiCo Master
  Taco Bell         Pizza Hut          KFC          Disbursement Funding Account
Concentration    Concentration    Concentration
  Account-      Account - Chase   Account - Chase      Automatic Funding
  Wachovia


                                                                      Taco Bell
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                      Pizza Hut
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                        KFC
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts





Funding Structure Just Prior to Distribution Date (on or about 9/22/97):
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                     PepsiCo
                              Master Concentration
                                 Account - Chase


               Money Moves Automatically via Zero Balance Accounts

                                                                        
                                                    Disbursements Funded by Wire
                                                         from TRICON Master
   Cash Collected via Cash Concentration and       Concentration Account into a
              Drawdown Wires                      TRICON Master Disbursement
                                                          Funding Account      

Miscellaneous Depository         TRICON
       Accounts            Master Concentration
                            Account - Chase


                                                               TRICON Master
  Taco Bell        Pizza Hut           KFC                 Disbursement Funding
Concentration    Concentration     Concentration                Account
  Account -     Account - Chase    Account - Chase
  Wachovia
                                                           Automatic Funding



                                                                     Taco Bell
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                     Pizza Hut
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                        KFC
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                     Accounts





Anticipated Funding Structure Post Distribution Date:
- -----------------------------------------------------




                                                   Disbursements Funded by Wire
                                                        from TRICON Master
    Cash Collected via ACH Debits and Drawdown     Concentration Account into a
                         Wires                       TRICON Master Disbursement
Miscellaneous Depository             TRICON              Funding Account
        Accounts             Master Concentration
                               Account - Chase

                                                              TRICON Master
   Taco Bell         Pizza Hut                KFC          Disbursement Funding
 Concentration     Concentration        Concentration           Account
    Account -        Account - Chase        Account - Chase
   Wachovia
                                                           Automatic Funding

                                                                      Taco Bell
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                      Pizza Hut
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts


                                                                        KFC
                                                                    Disbursement
                                                                      Accounts





                                                                      SCHEDULE J


                                    EXPENSES
                                    --------



     TRICON  shall  bear  the  following   expenses  in   connection   with  the
Distribution:

1.   The fees and expenses in connection with the TRICON bank credit facilities.

2.   Special management incentive  arrangements (the  Stay/Performance  bonuses)
     for the  management  of KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  PRI  which  are
     incremental to the regular division bonuses.

3.   Rating agency fees and expenses.




                               FIRST AMENDMENT TO
                              SEPARATION AGREEMENT

     FIRST  AMENDMENT,  dated as of October 6, 1997 (this  "Amendment"),  to the
Separation Agreement,  dated as of August 26, 1997 (as amended,  supplemented or
otherwise  modified from time to time, the "Separation  Agreement";  capitalized
terms used but not otherwise  defined in this Amendment  shall have the meanings
assigned to such terms in the  Separation  Agreement),  by and between  PepsiCo,
Inc., a North Carolina corporation  ("PepsiCo"),  and TRICON Global Restaurants,
Inc., a North Carolina corporation ("TRICON").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

     WHEREAS,  pursuant to the Separation Agreement,  PepsiCo has agreed to make
available  to TRICON  certain  Transitional  Services  set forth on  Schedule  A
thereto in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Separation Agreement;
and

     WHEREAS,  TRICON has  requested  that PepsiCo  provide  certain  additional
services to TRICON in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Separation
Agreement;

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein,
the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

     Section 1. Amendment to Schedule A. Schedule A to the Separation  Agreement
is hereby amended by deleting such Schedule in its entirety and  substituting in
lieu thereof Schedule A to this Amendment.

     Section  2.  Limited  Effect.  Except  as  expressly  amended  herein,  the
Separation  Agreement shall continue to be, and shall remain,  in full force and
effect in accordance with its terms.

     Section 3.  Counterparts.  This Amendment may be executed in  counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which  together shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

     Section 4. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.




     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Amendment to
be duly executed as of the date and year first above written.

                                        PepsiCo, Inc.

                                        By   /s/ Karl M. von der Heyden
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Karl M. von der Heyden
                                             Vice Chairman and
                                             Chief Financial Officer

                                        TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

                                        By   /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Andrall E. Pearson
                                             Chairman of the Board










                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2

                            TAX SEPARATION AGREEMENT

     This  Agreement is entered into as of the 26th day of August,  1997 between
PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"), a North Carolina corporation, on behalf of itself and
the  members  of  the  PepsiCo  Group,  and  TRICON  Global  Restaurants,   Inc.
("TRICON"), a North Carolina corporation, on behalf of itself and the members of
the TRICON Group.

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS, pursuant to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, certain members
of the TRICON Group, as defined below,  presently file certain tax returns on an
affiliated,  consolidated,  combined, unitary, fiscal unity or other group basis
(including as permitted by Section 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the  "Code"))  with certain  members of the PepsiCo  Group,  as defined
below (each such group, a "Consolidated Group");

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo and TRICON  intend to enter into a  Separation  Agreement
dated as of August 26,  1997 (the  "Separation  Agreement"),  providing  for the
distribution by PepsiCo to its shareholders of all of the common stock of TRICON
that is held by PepsiCo (the "Distribution") and certain other matters;

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo  and TRICON  desire to set forth their  agreement  on the
rights and  obligations of PepsiCo,  TRICON and the members of the PepsiCo Group
and the TRICON Group, respectively,  with respect to the handling and allocation
of federal, state, local and foreign Taxes incurred in Taxable periods beginning
prior to the Distribution  Date, Taxes resulting from  transactions  effected in
connection with the  Distribution  including but not limited to the distribution
of certain  borrowing  proceeds by TRICON to PepsiCo (the  "Restructuring")  and
various other Tax matters;

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the mutual covenants and agreements
hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:

1.   Definitions

     (a) As used in this Agreement:

     "Affiliate"  of any  Person  shall  mean (i) any  individual,  corporation,
partnership or other entity  directly or indirectly  owning more than 50 percent
(by vote or value)  of,  owned  more than 50  percent  (by vote or value) by, or
under  more than 50  percent  (by vote or value)  common  ownership  with,  such
Person,  and (ii) any entity that is entitled to the benefit of any Tax Asset of
such Person  under  applicable  law, any entity with any Tax Asset to which such
Person is entitled to the benefit of under  applicable  law, or any entity which
is entitled or required to transfer or assign  income,  revenues,  receipts,  or
gains to such Person under applicable law.

     "After-Tax Amount" shall mean an additional amount necessary to reflect the
hypothetical  Tax  consequences of the receipt or accrual of any payment,  using
the maximum  statutory rate (or rates,  in the case of an item that affects more
than one Tax) applicable to the recipient of such payment for the relevant year,
reflecting for example, the effect of the deductions available for interest paid
or accrued and for Taxes such as state and local income Taxes.


     "Consolidated  Group"  shall have the  meaning  ascribed to it in the first
"whereas" clause in this Agreement; provided, however, that "Consolidated Group"
shall also  include (i) PepsiCo or any  Affiliate of PepsiCo that filed (or will
file) any  Pre-Distribution  Period  Returns that reflect the income,  assets or
operations of a Restaurant  Business and (ii) any Affiliate of TRICON that filed
(or will file) any  Pre-Distribution  Period  Returns  that  reflect the income,
assets or operations of a Non-Restaurant Business.

     "Distribution"  shall mean the distribution by PepsiCo of all of the common
stock of TRICON that is held by PepsiCo to  PepsiCo's  shareholders  pursuant to
the Separation Agreement.

     "Distribution  Date" shall mean the date on which the Distribution shall be
effected.

     "Federal Tax" shall mean any Tax imposed  under  Subtitle A of the Code and
any related penalty imposed under Subtitle F of the Code.

     "Final  Determination"  shall mean (i) with respect to Federal Taxes, (A) a
"determination"  as defined in Section  1313(a) of the Code,  or (B) the date of
acceptance  by or on behalf of the IRS of Form  870-AD  (or any  successor  form
thereto),  as a final resolution of Tax liability for any Taxable period, except
that a Form 870-AD (or  successor  form  thereto) that reserves the right of the
taxpayer  to file a claim for refund or the right of the IRS to assert a further
deficiency shall not constitute a Final  Determination  with respect to the item
or items so reserved;  (ii) with respect to Taxes other than Federal Taxes,  any
final determination of liability in respect of a Tax that, under applicable law,
is not subject to further appeal,  review or modification through proceedings or
otherwise; (iii) with respect to any Tax, any final disposition by reason of the
expiration of the applicable statute of limitations; or (iv) with respect to any
Tax, the payment of Tax by PepsiCo,  TRICON,  or any member of the PepsiCo Group
or the TRICON  Group,  whichever  is  responsible  for payment of such Tax under
applicable  law,  with  respect to any item  disallowed  or adjusted by a Taxing
Authority,  provided that the  provisions of Section 8 hereof have been complied
with, or, if such section is inapplicable,  that the party responsible under the
terms of this  Agreement  for such Tax is notified by the party  paying such Tax
that it has determined  that no action should be taken to recoup such disallowed
item, and the other party agrees with such determination.

     "IRS" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.

     "LIBOR"  shall be determined on the basis of the offered rates for deposits
in U.S.  Dollars for a period of 30 days which appear on the Reuters Screen LIBO
Page as of 11:00 a.m.,  London time. If at least two rates appear on the Reuters
Screen LIBO Page, the rate will be the arithmetic mean of such rates.

     "Non-Restaurant  Business"  shall mean any business other than a Restaurant
Business.

     "PepsiCo Group" shall mean, with respect to any Taxable period, PepsiCo and
its Affiliates  (including their  predecessors and successors) at any time prior
to the Distribution other than those Affiliates comprising the TRICON Group.

     "PepsiCo Tax Liability" shall mean, with respect to any Consolidated  Group
and any Taxable  period,  the PepsiCo Group's share of the Tax liability of such
Consolidated  Group,  computed as if the relevant  members of the PepsiCo  Group
were not and never  were part of such  Consolidated  Group,  but  rather  were a
separate  affiliated  group  of  corporations  filing  a  similar  group  Return
(provided,  however,  that  transactions  with any  member of the  TRICON  Group
included in such  Consolidated  Group shall not be taken into account  until the
first  Taxable  period in which such  transaction  is  required to be taken into
account for Tax purposes under applicable  law). Such computation  shall be made
(A) without regard to 


the  income,   deductions   (including  net  operating  loss  and  capital  loss
deductions) and credits in any year of any member of the TRICON Group, except to
the  extent  that a payment  was made to any  member of the  TRICON  Group  with
respect  thereto,  (B) by taking  account of any Tax Asset of the PepsiCo Group,
(C) with  regard  to net  operating  loss and  capital  loss  carryforwards  and
carrybacks  and minimum Tax credits from earlier  years of the PepsiCo Group and
without reduction for any such losses, carryforwards, carrybacks or credits used
by any  member of the TRICON  Group,  (D) by  applying  the  maximum  applicable
statutory Tax rate in effect under  applicable law during the relevant year, and
(E)  reflecting  the  positions,  elections and  accounting  methods used by the
Consolidated Group in preparing the relevant Return for the Consolidated  Group.
Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement, any gain recognized
upon the  disposition  of PepsiCo Food Systems shall be treated as a PepsiCo Tax
Liability.

     "PepsiCo  Vice  President,  Tax" shall  include any  successor  position or
title.

     "Person" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 7701(a)(1) of the
Code.

     "Post-Distribution  Period"  shall  mean any  taxable  period  (or  portion
thereof) beginning after the close of business on the Distribution Date.

     "Pre-Distribution  Period"  shall mean any Taxable  period end on or before
the close of  business  on the  Distribution  Date;  provided  that if a Taxable
period ending after the Distribution  Date contains any days which fall prior to
or on the  Distribution  Date,  any  portion  of such  Taxable  period up to and
including the Distribution  Date shall also be included in the  Pre-Distribution
Period.

     "Prime" shall mean the rate announced from time to time as "prime" by Chase
Manhattan Bank as its prime rate with respect to the applicable currency.

     "Restaurant  Business" shall mean any business activity associated with the
operation, development,  franchising and licensing of restaurants (including the
casual  dining  restaurants  and PepsiCo Food  Systems),  as  determined  by the
PepsiCo Vice President, Tax in accordance with past practice.

     "Restructuring"  shall  have  the  meaning  ascribed  to  it in  the  third
"whereas"  clause in this Agreement;  provided,  however,  that  "Restructuring"
shall exclude any normal business  operations  (including  refranchising and the
disposition of any aircraft).

     "Return"  shall mean any Tax return,  statement,  report,  form,  election,
claim or  surrender  (including  estimated  Tax returns and  reports,  extension
requests and forms,  and information  returns and reports)  required to be filed
with any Taxing Authority.

     "Tax" (and the correlative meaning,  "Taxes," "Taxing" and "Taxable") shall
mean (A) any tax imposed under Subtitle A of the Code, or any net income,  gross
income, gross receipts,  alternative or add-on minimum, sales, use, business and
occupation,  value-added,  trade,  goods and  services,  ad valorem,  franchise,
profits, license, business royalty, withholding,  payroll, employment,  capital,
excise, transfer,  recording,  severance, stamp, occupation,  premium, property,
asset,  real  estate  acquisition,  environmental,  custom  duty,  or other tax,
governmental  fee or other  like  assessment  or charge of any kind  whatsoever,
together with any interest and any penalty, addition to tax or additional amount
imposed by a Taxing  Authority;  (B) any  liability  of a member of the  PepsiCo
Group or the TRICON Group, as the case may be, for the payment of any amounts of
the type  described  in clause (A) for any Taxable  period  resulting  from such
member  being a part of a  Consolidated  Group  pursuant to the  application  of
Treasury  Regulation Section 1.1502-6 or any similar provision  applicable under
state,  


local or foreign law; or (C) any  liability of a member of the PepsiCo  Group or
the TRICON  Group for the  payment of any amounts  described  in clause (A) as a
result of any express or implied obligation to indemnify any other party.

     "Tax Asset" shall mean any net operating loss, net capital loss, investment
Tax  credit,  Foreign Tax credit,  target  jobs Tax credit,  low income  housing
credit, research and experimentation credit,  charitable deduction, or any other
loss,  credit or Tax  attribute,  including  additions  to basis of property and
attributes which reduce or offset value-added Tax liability,  which could reduce
any Tax  (domestic  or  foreign),  including,  without  limitation,  deductions,
credits,  or  alternative  minimum net operating loss  carryforwards  related to
alternative minimum Taxes.

     "Tax Packages" shall mean one or more packages of information  that are (i)
reasonably  necessary for the purpose of preparing  Returns of any  Consolidated
Group  with  respect to a  Pre-Distribution  Period  and (ii)  completed  in all
material  respects in accordance with the standards that PepsiCo has established
for its subsidiaries with respect to the relevant Pre-Distribution Period.

     "Tax Proceeding" shall mean any Tax audit,  dispute or proceeding  (whether
administrative or judicial).

     "Taxing  Authority"  shall mean any  governmental  authority  (domestic  or
foreign),  including,  without limitation,  any state,  municipality,  political
subdivision or governmental agency, responsible for the imposition of any Tax.

     "TRICON Group" shall mean TRICON and its Affiliates  immediately  after the
Distribution Date, including any predecessors thereto;  provided,  however, that
for purposes of determining whether an entity is a member of the TRICON Group, a
transfer of beneficial  ownership of an entity shall be treated as a transfer of
title,  regardless of whether title has actually passed;  provided further, that
to the extent that  PepsiCo or an Affiliate of PepsiCo or an Affiliate of TRICON
conducted  both  a  Restaurant  Business  and  a  Non-Restaurant  Business,  the
Restaurant  Business  shall be  treated  for  purposes  of this  Agreement  as a
separate corporation that is a member of the TRICON Group and the Non-Restaurant
Business  shall  be  treated  for  purposes  of  this  Agreement  as a  separate
corporation  that is a member of the PepsiCo Group;  provided  further,  that if
with respect to any  Pre-Distribution  Period (or portion thereof) any Affiliate
of PepsiCo was  involved  solely in the conduct of a Restaurant  Business,  such
member   shall  be  treated   as  a  member  of  the   TRICON   Group  for  such
Pre-Distribution Period (or portion thereof); and provided further, that if with
respect to any  Pre-Distribution  Period (or portion  thereof) any  Affiliate of
TRICON was not  involved in the conduct of a  Restaurant  Business,  such member
shall not be treated as a member of the TRICON  Group for such  Pre-Distribution
Period (or portion thereof).

     "TRICON Tax Liability" shall mean, with respect to any  Consolidated  Group
and any Taxable  period,  the TRICON  Group's share of the Tax liability of such
Consolidated Group, computed as if the relevant members of the TRICON Group were
not and never were part of such  Consolidated  Group, but rather were a separate
affiliated  group of  corporations  filing a  similar  group  Return  (provided,
however, that transactions with any member of the PepsiCo Group included in such
Consolidated  Group  shall not be taken  into  account  until the first  Taxable
period in which such  transaction  is required to be taken into  account for Tax
purposes  under  applicable  law).  Such  computation  shall be made (A) without
regard to the income,  deductions (including net operating loss and capital loss
deductions)  and credits in any year of any member of the PepsiCo Group,  except
to the extent that a payment  was made to any member of the  PepsiCo  Group with
respect  thereto,  (B) by taking  account of any Tax Asset of the TRICON  Group,
including net operating loss and capital loss  carryforwards  and carrybacks and
minimum Tax credits from earlier  years of the TRICON Group except to the extent
that such  losses,  carryforwards,  carrybacks  or credits have been used by any
member of the PepsiCo Group for purposes of computing the PepsiCo 


Tax  Liability,  (C) by applying the maximum  applicable  statutory  Tax rate in
effect under  applicable  law during the relevant  year,  and (D) reflecting the
positions,  elections and accounting  methods used by the Consolidated  Group in
preparing the relevant Return for the Consolidated  Group.  Notwithstanding  the
foregoing, in the jurisdictions of the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, Mexico
and New Zealand, the TRICON Tax Liability shall be determined in accordance with
PepsiCo's  past policy for the sharing of Tax  liabilities  and losses and other
Tax  benefits.  For  purposes  of the  preceding  sentence,  in the event of any
adjustment that increases the Tax liability of the relevant  Consolidated  Group
in any of those jurisdictions,  such increase shall be allocated proportionately
among the legal entities impacted by such adjustment.

     (b) Any term used in this Agreement  which is not defined in this Agreement
shall, to the extent the context  requires,  have the meaning  assigned to it in
the Code or the applicable  Treasury  regulations  thereunder (as interpreted in
administrative   pronouncements   and  judicial   decisions)  or  in  comparable
provisions of applicable law.

2.   Administrative and Compliance Matters.

     (a) Sole Tax sharing Agreement. Any and all existing Tax sharing agreements
or arrangements,  written or unwritten,  between any member of the PepsiCo Group
and any member of the TRICON Group shall be or shall have been  terminated as of
the  date of this  Agreement.  As of the  date of this  Agreement,  neither  the
members of the TRICON Group nor the members of the PepsiCo  Group shall have any
further rights or liabilities  thereunder,  and this Agreement shall be the sole
Tax sharing agreement between the members of the TRICON Group and the members of
the PepsiCo Group. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any such termination is not
binding on any Taxing Authority, the TRICON Group shall hold the affected member
of the PepsiCo Group  harmless  against any adverse effect which would have been
avoided if such termination had been given effect by such Taxing Authority.

     (b) Designation of Agent.  TRICON and each member of the TRICON Group,  and
PepsiCo and each member of the PepsiCo  Group,  as the case may be, in each case
with respect to any Consolidated Group of which such Person is a member,  hereby
irrevocably authorize PepsiCo or TRICON, as the case may be, and consistent with
past practice and applicable  law, to designate a member of the PepsiCo Group or
the TRICON Group, as appropriate,  or a successor of such member,  as its agent,
coordinator,  and  administrator,  for the purpose of taking any and all actions
(including  the  execution  of waivers of  applicable  statutes  of  limitation)
necessary or incidental to the filing of any Return,  any amended Return, or any
claim for  refund  (even  where an item or Tax Asset  giving  rise to an amended
Return or refund claim arises in a Post-Distribution  Period),  credit or offset
of Tax or any other  proceedings,  and for the purpose of making payments to, or
collecting refunds from, any Taxing Authority, in each case relating only to any
Pre-Distribution  Period.  Such  designated  member of the PepsiCo  Group or the
TRICON  Group,  as the case may be, as agent,  covenants  to TRICON or  PepsiCo,
respectively,  that it shall be responsible to see that all such  administrative
matters relating thereto shall be handled promptly and appropriately.

     (c) Pre-Distribution  Period Returns. With respect to a Consolidated Group,
the member of the PepsiCo  Group or the TRICON  Group,  as  applicable,  that is
required by applicable law to file the Returns for all Pre-Distribution  Periods
will prepare such Returns with the assistance of the TRICON Group or the PepsiCo
Group, respectively. With respect to each Consolidated Group, either a member of
the  PepsiCo  Group or a member of the TRICON  Group,  as  consistent  with past
practice and applicable law, will file the  Pre-Distribution  Period Returns for
such Consolidated Group. PepsiCo and the members of the PepsiCo Group shall have
the right with respect to any  Consolidated  Group  Returns to determine (x) the
manner in which such  returns,  documents  or  statements  shall be prepared and
filed,  including,  without limitation,  the manner in which any item of income,
gain, loss, deduction or credit 


shall be reported; provided, however, that such returns, documents or statements
shall be prepared in accordance with past practice (unless such past practice is
no longer  permissible  under the Code or other applicable law), (y) whether any
extensions  should  be  requested,  and (z)  subject  to the  third  and  fourth
sentences of the  definition of TRICON Tax Liability,  the elections,  including
claims and surrenders for U.K. group relief and any similar  foreign  offsetting
procedures,  that will be made by any member of the PepsiCo  Group or the TRICON
Group.  In addition,  with respect to all  Pre-Distribution  Periods,  except as
provided in Section  8(b),  PepsiCo  and the members of the PepsiCo  Group shall
have the right to (i) contest, compromise or settle any adjustment or deficiency
proposed,  asserted  or  assessed  as a result of any audit of any  consolidated
return filed by the PepsiCo  Group or the TRICON  Group,  (ii) file,  prosecute,
compromise or settle any claim for refund,  (iii) determine  whether any refunds
to which the PepsiCo Group may be entitled shall be received by way of refund or
credited  against  the tax  liability  of the PepsiCo  Group and (iv)  determine
whether a deposit  will be made with a Taxing  Authority  to stop the running of
interest.  With  respect  to the 1997 Tax year,  TRICON  and the  members of the
TRICON Group shall prepare and deliver to PepsiCo all Tax Packages no later than
the due date prescribed for the members of the PepsiCo Group.

3.   Tax Sharing.

     (a) General.  For each  Taxable  period of each  Consolidated  Group during
which income, profits, gains, net worth, receipts, sales, loss or credit against
Tax of at least one member of each of the TRICON Group and the PepsiCo Group are
includible  in a Return of such  Consolidated  Group,  the  TRICON  Group or the
PepsiCo Group, as appropriate,  shall pay, as provided in this Section 3, to the
PepsiCo Group or the TRICON Group,  respectively,  an amount equal to the TRICON
Tax Liability or the PepsiCo Tax  Liability,  as  appropriate,  for such Taxable
period,  if any.  Any Return  filed by an entity  described in clause (i) of the
definition of Consolidated Group shall be treated as required to be filed by the
PepsiCo  Group and any payment  made prior to the  Distribution  with respect to
such  Return  shall be treated as having  been made by the  PepsiCo  Group.  Any
Return  filed  by an  entity  described  in  clause  (ii) of the  definition  of
Consolidated  Group shall be treated as required to be filed by the TRICON Group
and any payment made prior to the Distribution with respect to such Return shall
be treated as having been made by the TRICON Group.

     (b) Estimated Payments. Not later than 3 days after a member of the PepsiCo
Group or a member of the TRICON  Group,  as the case may be,  makes an estimated
Tax payment with respect to a Taxable period of a Consolidated Group, whether or
not such payment is made prior to the Distribution,  the PepsiCo Group shall (i)
in good faith  determine  the amount of the TRICON Tax  Liability or the PepsiCo
Tax  Liability,  as  appropriate,  pursuant to this Agreement and (ii) deliver a
written statement to TRICON  reflecting the  determination  described above. Not
later than three days after  receipt of such  statement,  the TRICON Group shall
pay to the PepsiCo Group or the PepsiCo Group shall pay to the TRICON Group,  as
appropriate, the amount so determined in accordance with Section 9 hereof.

     (c) Payment of Taxes at Year-End.

          (i) Not later  than 5  business  days  before a member of the  PepsiCo
     Group or a member of the TRICON  Group,  as the case may be, is required to
     file a Return  (after taking  extensions  into account) with respect to any
     Consolidated  Group for which payments are to be made under this Agreement,
     whether or not such Return is filed prior to the Distribution,  the PepsiCo
     Group shall deliver to the TRICON Group a written  statement  setting forth
     the  difference  between  (x) the TRICON Tax  Liability  or the PepsiCo Tax
     Liability, as appropriate, for such Return, and (y) the aggregate amount of
     payments  with  respect to the  TRICON Tax  Liability  or the  PepsiCo  Tax
     Liability,  as appropriate,  for such year made pursuant to Section 3(b) or
     otherwise,  including  estimated Tax payments  made by way of  intercompany
     account  transfers.  Not later than the date such  Return is required to be
     filed, the TRICON 


Group  shall pay to the  PepsiCo  Group or the  PepsiCo  Group  shall pay to the
TRICON Group,  as appropriate,  in accordance  with Section 9 hereof,  an amount
equal to such difference,  if any;  provided,  however,  that to the extent such
payment is to be made to the  TRICON  Group and is  attributable  to a claim for
refund of Taxes  previously paid to a Taxing  Authority,  the PepsiCo Group will
not be required to make such payment to the TRICON Group.

          (ii) With  respect to each Return  described in Section 3(a) above and
     previously  filed by a  Consolidated  Group,  and for which the  TRICON Tax
     Liability  or the PepsiCo Tax  Liability,  as the case may be, has not been
     satisfied  in full or for which the TRICON  Group has not paid the  PepsiCo
     Group  in full for a  benefit  derived  from the use of a Tax  Asset of the
     PepsiCo  Group,  the TRICON  Group  shall pay to the  PepsiCo  Group or the
     PepsiCo Group shall pay to the TRICON Group, as appropriate, within 30 days
     of demand  therefor,  the amount in respect of such Return as determined by
     the PepsiCo Vice President, Tax.

          (d) Certain Other Matters.

               (i) With  respect to each  Consolidated  Group,  the TRICON Group
          shall pay to the  PepsiCo  Group the actual  benefit  received by such
          Consolidated  Group from the use of any Tax Asset of the PepsiCo Group
          or any Tax Asset  attributable  to the  Restaurant  Business  which is
          reattributed  to  PepsiCo  pursuant  to  Treasury   Regulation  ss.1.1
          502-20(g) or any  comparable  provision of  applicable  law, or in the
          event that California  Pizza Kitchen ("CPK") is a member of the TRICON
          Group,  the use of any  Pre-Distribution  Period Tax Asset of CPK (the
          "CPK Tax Asset"), including, without limitation, any Tax Asset that is
          reattributed  to  TRICON  pursuant  to  Treasury   Regulation  Section
          1.1502-20(g),  whether  arising  in  a  Pre-Distribution  Period  or a
          Post-Distribution Period. TRICON agrees that if CPK is a member of the
          TRICON  Group,  any  disposition  of CPK will be  effected  as a stock
          transfer  and an  election  shall  be  made  to  reattribute  the  net
          operating  losses  attributable  to CPK to TRICON pursuant to Treasury
          Regulation  Section  1.1502-20(g).  Such benefit  shall be  considered
          equal to the excess of the amount of Tax that would have been  payable
          to a Taxing  Authority  (or of the Tax  refund  that  would  have been
          receivable)  by such  Consolidated  Group in the  absence  of such Tax
          Asset over the amount of Tax  actually  payable to a Taxing  Authority
          (or of the Tax refund actually receivable) by such Consolidated Group.
          Payment of the amount of such benefit  shall be made within 30 days of
          the receipt by any member of the TRICON Group of any refund, credit or
          other offset  attributable  thereto from the relevant Taxing Authority
          and the future  Returns of the  PepsiCo  Group  shall be  adjusted  to
          reflect  such  use.  Notwithstanding  the  definition  of  TRICON  Tax
          Liability  or  any  other  provision  in  this  Agreement,   any  loss
          recognized  upon any  disposition of the casual dining  restaurants or
          any  disposition  of assets thereof shall be treated as a Tax Asset of
          the PepsiCo Group.

               (ii) If,  subsequent  to the  payment by the TRICON  Group to the
          PepsiCo  Group of any amount  referred  to in Section  3(d)(i)  above,
          there  shall  be  (A)  a  Final   Determination  which  results  in  a
          disallowance  or a  reduction  of  the  Tax  Asset  so  used  or (B) a
          reduction  in the amount of the benefit  realized by the TRICON  Group
          from such Tax Asset as a result of a Final Determination or the use by
          the TRICON Group of a Tax Asset of a member of the TRICON  Group,  the
          PepsiCo  Group shall repay to the TRICON  Group the amount which would
          not have been payable to the PepsiCo Group pursuant to Section 3(d)(i)
          had the amount of the benefit been  determined in light of such event.
          In  addition,  the PepsiCo  Group shall hold each member of the TRICON
          Group  harmless  for any penalty or interest  payable by any member of
          the  TRICON  Group as a result of any such  event  referred  to in the
          preceding sentence, unless such event is attributable to any action of
          any member of the TRICON Group. Any amounts payable under this Section
          3(d)(ii)  shall be paid by the  PepsiCo  Group  within  30 days  after
          receipt of written notice from the TRICON Group.


               (e) Treatment of Adjustment.

                    (i)  Except  as  provided  in  clause  (iii)  below  if  any
               adjustment  is made in,  or if a Taxing  Authority  assesses  any
               deficiency  with  respect  to, a Return of a  Consolidated  Group
               filed by a member of the TRICON Group which would have  increased
               the PepsiCo Tax Liability under Section  3(c)(i),  then within 30
               days after a Final  Determination of the adjustment,  the PepsiCo
               Group shall pay to the TRICON  Group the  difference  between all
               payments  actually  made under  Section  3(c)(i) and all payments
               that would  have been made  under  Section  3(c)(i)  taking  such
               adjustment into account.

                    (ii) If any adjustment is made in, or if a Taxing  Authority
               assesses  any   deficiency   with  respect  to,  a  Return  of  a
               Consolidated  Group filed by a member of the PepsiCo  Group which
               would  have  increased  the TRICON Tax  Liability  under  Section
               3(c)(i),  then  within 30 days  after any  member of the  PepsiCo
               Group  makes a payment to a Taxing  Authority  or makes a deposit
               with a Taxing  Authority  to stop the  running of  interest  with
               respect to such  adjustment,  the TRICON  Group  shall pay to the
               PepsiCo Group the difference  between all payments  actually made
               under Section  3(c)(i) and all payments that would have been made
               under Section 3(c)(i) taking such adjustment into account.

                    (iii) If any adjustment made in, or any deficiency  assessed
               with  respect to a Return of a  Consolidated  Group  results in a
               reduction  in the amount of the  benefit  realized by the PepsiCo
               Group from a Tax Asset of the TRICON  Group  (whether  or not the
               TRICON  Group was paid in  respect of such  benefit),  the TRICON
               Group shall,  within 30 days after receipt of written notice from
               the PepsiCo  Group,  pay to the PepsiCo  Group the amount of such
               reduction.  In addition,  the TRICON Group shall hold each member
               of the PepsiCo Group harmless for any penalty or interest payable
               by any  member  of the  TRICON  Group  as a  result  of any  such
               reduction.

                    (iv) Any refunds or credits of Tax  (including a return of a
               deposit  described in Section  3(e)(ii))  received by a member of
               the TRICON Group relating to a Pre-Distribution  Period, shall be
               paid by such  member of the  TRICON  Group to the  PepsiCo  Group
               within 30 days of receipt; provided that no such payment shall be
               required to the extent such refund or credit is  attributable  to
               (x) a Tax  Asset of the  PepsiCo  Group  for  which  payment  has
               previously  been made by the TRICON  Group,  or (y) an adjustment
               for which  payment in respect  thereof has  previously  been made
               pursuant to Section 3(e)(i) or 3(e)(ii).

4.   Certain Representations and Covenants.

     (a) (i) TRICON Representations.  TRICON and each member of the TRICON Group
represent  that as of the date hereof,  and covenants  that on the  Distribution
Date,  there is no plan or  intention  (A) to  liquidate  TRICON  or to merge or
consolidate TRICON, or any member of the TRICON Group conducting an active trade
or  business   relied  upon  in  connection  with  the   Restructuring   or  the
Distribution, with any other person subsequent to the Distribution, (B) to sell,
refranchise or otherwise  dispose of any asset, or close any restaurant unit, of
TRICON or any member of the TRICON Group  subsequent to the  Distribution,  in a
manner that would result in any  increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax
Asset  of the  PepsiCo  Group or any  member  thereof,  (C) to take  any  action
inconsistent  with the information and  representations  furnished to the IRS or
any other Taxing  Authority in connection  with the request for a private letter
ruling (or any comparable  pronouncement  by a Taxing Authority under applicable
law) with  respect  to the  Distribution  or the  Restructuring,  regardless  of
whether such  information  and  representations  were  included in the ruling or
pronouncement issued by the IRS or other Taxing Authority, (D) to enter into any
negotiations, agreements, or arrangements with respect to transactions or events
(including  stock  issuances,  pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise,
option grants, the adoption of, or authorization of shares under, a stock option
plan,   capital   contributions,   or   acquisitions,   but  not  including  the
Distribution) which, if treated as consummated before the proposed 


distribution,  would result in PepsiCo not having "control" of TRICON within the
meaning  of  sections  355(a)(1)(A)  and  368(c)  of the Code at the time of the
Distribution,  (E) to make any change in equity  structure  that would result in
PepsiCo  not  having  such  "control"  (except  for  the  Distribution),  (F) to
repurchase  stock of TRICON in a manner contrary to the  requirements of Revenue
Procedure  96-30  or  in a  manner  contrary  to  the  representations  made  in
connection  with the request  for a private  letter  ruling with  respect to the
Distribution,  (G) to  take  any  action  that  contravenes  any  existing  gain
recognition  agreement or other  agreement with a Taxing  Authority to which any
member of the TRICON Group or the PepsiCo  Group is a party or (H) to enter into
any  negotiations,  agreements,  or arrangements with respect to transactions or
events  (including  stock  issuances,  pursuant  to the  exercise  of options or
otherwise,  option grants,  the adoption of, or authorization of shares under, a
stock option plan, capital contributions, or acquisitions, but not including the
Distribution)  which may cause the  Distribution to be treated as part of a plan
pursuant to which one or more  Persons  acquire  directly or  indirectly  TRICON
stock  representing  a "50-percent  or greater  interest"  within the meaning of
Section 355(d)(4) of the Code.

          (ii) TRICON and PepsiCo  Representations.  Each of TRICON, PepsiCo and
     the  members  of the  TRICON  Group and the  PepsiCo  Group,  respectively,
     represents  that  as  of  the  date  hereof,  and  covenants  that  on  the
     Distribution  Date,  neither TRICON,  PepsiCo nor the members of the TRICON
     Group or  PepsiCo  Group,  respectively  (as  applicable),  is aware of any
     present plan or intention by the current  shareholders  of PepsiCo to sell,
     exchange,  transfer by gift, or otherwise dispose of any of their stock in,
     or securities  of,  PepsiCo or TRICON  subsequent to the  Distribution.  In
     making this representation, the parties hereto recognize that the shares of
     PepsiCo  are,  and the shares of TRICON  will be,  listed on certain  stock
     exchanges and regular public trading in such shares can be expected.

     (b) TRICON Covenants.  TRICON covenants to PepsiCo that,  without the prior
written  consent of the PepsiCo  Vice  President,  Tax,  (i) during the two-year
period  following the  Distribution  Date neither TRICON,  nor any member of the
TRICON Group  conducting  an active trade or business  relied upon in connection
with the Restructuring or the Distribution, will liquidate, merge or consolidate
with  any  other  person,   (ii)  during  the  two-year  period   following  the
Distribution  Date TRICON will not sell,  refranchise  exchange,  distribute  or
otherwise  dispose of its assets or those of any member of the TRICON Group,  or
close any of its restaurant units or those of any member of the TRICON Group, in
a manner that would result in any  increased  Tax  liability or reduction of any
Tax Asset of the  PepsiCo  Group or any  member  thereof,  (iii)  following  the
Distribution,  TRICON  will,  for a minimum  of two years,  continue  the active
conduct of the historic  business  conducted by TRICON  throughout the five year
period prior to the  Distribution,  (iv) TRICON will not, nor will it permit any
member of the TRICON Group to, take any action inconsistent with the information
and  representations  furnished  to the IRS or any  other  Taxing  Authority  in
connection  with the  request  for a private  letter  ruling (or any  comparable
pronouncement  by a Taxing  Authority under  applicable law) with respect to the
Distribution or the  Restructuring,  regardless of whether such  information and
representations  were included in the ruling or pronouncement  issued by the IRS
or other Taxing Authority,  (v) TRICON will not take any action that contravenes
any  existing  gain  recognition  agreement  or  other  agreement  with a Taxing
Authority  to which any member of the  TRICON  Group or the  PepsiCo  Group is a
party,  (vi) TRICON will not repurchase  stock of TRICON in a manner contrary to
the  requirements  of Revenue  Procedure  96-30 or in a manner  contrary  to the
representations  made in connection with the request for a private letter ruling
with respect to the Distribution, (vii) on or after the Distribution Date TRICON
will not,  nor will it permit any member of the TRICON  Group to, make or change
any accounting method,  amend any Return or take any Tax position on any Return,
take any other  action,  omit to take any action or enter  into any  transaction
that results in any increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax Asset of the
PepsiCo Group or any member thereof in respect of any  Pre-Distribution  Period,
and (viii) during the applicable period provided in Section  355(e)(2)(B) of the
Code with respect to the Distribution, it will not enter into any transaction or
make any change in its equity structure (including stock issuances,  pursuant to
the  exercise of options or  otherwise,  options  grants,  the  adoption  of, or
authorization of shares under, a stock option plan,  capital  contributions,  or
acquisitions,   but  not  including  the  Distribution)   which  may  cause  the
Distribution  to be  treated  as part of a plan  pursuant  to which  one or more
Persons acquire directly or indirectly  TRICON stock  representing a "50-percent
or greater interest" within the meaning of Section 355(d)(4) of the Code. TRICON
also  covenants  to  PepsiCo  that  during the  two-year  period  following  the
Distribution Date, TRICON will not enter into any transaction affecting, or that
could  affect,  the  ownership of the equity  interests  in TRICON,  or make any
change in its equity  structure  (including  stock  issuances,  pursuant  to the
exercise of options or otherwise,  the adoption of, or  authorization  of 


shares under, a stock option plan, capital contributions,  or acquisitions,  but
not  including  the  Distribution)  unless  TRICON  provides  the  PepsiCo  Vice
President,  Tax with written  notification of such transaction,  and the PepsiCo
Vice President,  Tax consents to such transaction;  provided,  however,  that if
such  consent is not given,  the PepsiCo Vice  President,  Tax agrees to seek an
unqualified  opinion  of  counsel  from  counsel  chosen  by  the  PepsiCo  Vice
President,  Tax, that such transaction or change in equity  structure,  together
with any prior  transactions  or changes in equity  structure  (including  stock
issuances,  pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise, option grants, the
adoption of, or  authorization  of shares  under,  a stock option plan,  capital
contributions,  or acquisitions, but not including the Distribution), if treated
as consummated  before the Distribution,  would not result in PepsiCo not having
"control" of TRICON  within the meaning of Sections  355(a)(1)(A)  and 368(c) of
the Code at the time of the  Distribution.  Upon the  receipt  of such  opinion,
TRICON shall be entitled to enter into such  transaction  or make such change in
its equity  structure.  If such an opinion is not obtained,  TRICON shall not be
entitled  to enter  into  such  transaction  or make such  change in its  equity
structure.  The PepsiCo  Vice  President,  Tax agrees that either (i) consent or
(ii) an  opinion  of  counsel  will be  delivered  to  TRICON  within 15 days of
TRICON's written  notification to PepsiCo of such transaction.  TRICON covenants
to PepsiCo that during the two-year  period  following  the  Distribution  Date,
TRICON  will not issue any stock  options  with  respect to shares that have not
been authorized.  In no event will TRICON enter into any transaction or make any
change in equity structure (including stock issuances,  pursuant to the exercise
of options or otherwise,  option grants,  the adoption of, or  authorization  of
shares under, a stock option plan, capital contributions,  or acquisitions,  but
not  including  the  Distribution)  during  the two year  period  following  the
Distribution  which, if treated as consummated  before the  Distribution,  would
result in PepsiCo not having  "control" of TRICON within the meaning of Sections
355(a)  (1)(A)  and  368(c)  of the  Code at the time of the  Distribution.  For
purposes of the preceding  sentence,  any option authorized under a stock option
plan will be treated as having been granted. TRICON shall provide to PepsiCo, on
the first  business  day of every  month,  commencing  on  November  3, 1997,  a
certificate  describing any transaction or change in equity structure  described
in the second sentence of this Section 4(b) and any option grants which occurred
during the preceding  month.  TRICON agrees that PepsiCo is to have no liability
for any tax  resulting  from any action  referred  to in this  Section  4(b) and
agrees to indemnify  and hold  harmless the PepsiCo  Group against any such tax.
TRICON  shall  also  bear all Costs  incurred  by  PepsiCo  in  connection  with
obtaining any opinion of counsel or in connection  with PepsiCo's  determination
of whether or not to grant any written consent required under this Section 4(b).

     (c)  Deductions  and Certain  Taxes  Related to Options.  The PepsiCo  Vice
President,  Tax shall  determine  whether the PepsiCo  Group or the TRICON Group
shall file Returns claiming (x) the Tax deductions  attributable to the exercise
of options to purchase  stock of PepsiCo  which are held by  employees or former
employees of the TRICON Group and (y) any other similar compensation related Tax
deductions.  If it is determined that the PepsiCo Group shall claim all such Tax
deductions,  (i) the PepsiCo Group shall be entitled to any such Tax deductions,
(ii) the Returns of the  PepsiCo  Group and the TRICON  Group shall  reflect the
entitlement  of the PepsiCo  Group to such  deductions,  (iii) to the extent any
such deductions are disallowed because a Taxing Authority determines that TRICON
should have claimed such  deductions,  the TRICON Group shall pay to the PepsiCo
Group an amount  equal to the Tax paid by the PepsiCo  Group as a result of such
disallowance,  (iv)  within 1 day of the  exercise  of any option  described  in
clause (x) of the  preceding  sentence,  or within 1 day of any other event that
would result in a compensation  related Tax  deduction,  as the case may be, the
TRICON Group will pay 


to the PepsiCo Group an amount equal to the liability of the PepsiCo Group under
the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, the Federal Unemployment Tax Act or any
state  employment  tax law in  connection  with the  exercise of such an option,
except to the extent such Tax is  withheld  from a payment to the  employee  and
remitted to a Taxing  Authority on the  employee's  behalf.  If it is determined
that the TRICON  Group shall claim all such Tax  deductions,  (i) the Returns of
the PepsiCo  Group and the TRICON Group shall reflect such  determination,  (ii)
not later  than 3 days  prior to the due date of any Tax  Return,  TRICON  shall
notify  the  PepsiCo  Vice  President,  Tax of the amount of Tax  deductions  it
intends to claim with respect to such options or other compensation  related Tax
deductions,  (iii) the TRICON  Group  shall pay to the  PepsiCo  Group an amount
equal to the product of the amount of the related  deductions and the sum of the
PepsiCo Group's  applicable  statutory  federal Tax rate and state and local Tax
rate net of any federal Tax  benefit  attributable  to state and local Taxes for
the relevant Tax period,  as determined by the PepsiCo Vice President,  Tax, and
such payment, with respect to each such deduction,  shall be made not later than
3 days prior to the due date of the estimated Tax payment immediately  following
when any member of the TRICON Group  becomes  entitled to any refund,  credit or
other offset attributable to such deduction,  (iv) TRICON and each member of the
TRICON Group will  indemnify  the PepsiCo Group against any Tax liability of the
PepsiCo  Group  under the  Federal  Insurance  Contributions  Act or the Federal
Unemployment  Tax Act incurred in connection with the exercise of such an option
or the  occurrence of any other event  resulting in a  compensation  related Tax
deduction, as the case may be, except for the extent such Tax is withheld from a
payment to the  employee and  remitted to a Taxing  Authority on the  employee's
behalf,  and (v) to the extent such  deduction  is  disallowed  because a Taxing
Authority  determines  that  PepsiCo  should have claimed  such  deduction,  the
PepsiCo  Group will file an amended  Return  claiming  such  deduction,  and the
PepsiCo Group shall pay to the TRICON Group the actual  benefit  received by the
PepsiCo  Group in  respect  of such  deduction  to the  extent  that  TRICON has
previously  made a payment  to PepsiCo  pursuant  to the  immediately  preceding
clause (iii)  attributable  to such  deduction.  For purposes of the immediately
preceding  clause (i),  the PepsiCo Vice  President,  Tax will have the right to
determine the amount of such Tax deductions attributable to the exercise of such
options or other compensation related Tax deductions that will be claimed by the
TRICON Group on any Tax Return;  provided,  however, that PepsiCo will indemnify
TRICON and the members of the TRICON  Group  against any Tax  liability  for any
disallowed  deductions to the extent the amount of deductions claimed on any Tax
return  exceeds  the  amount  of  deductions  in  the  notice  described  in the
immediately  preceding  clause (ii) provided that TRICON has  previously  made a
payment  to  PepsiCo   pursuant  to  the  immediately   preceding  clause  (iii)
attributable  to such  deductions.  For  purposes of the  immediately  preceding
clause (v), such benefit  shall be considered  equal to the excess of the amount
of Tax that would have been payable to a Taxing  Authority (or of the Tax refund
that would have been  receivable)  by the  PepsiCo  Group in the absence of such
deduction over the amount of Tax actually  payable to a Taxing  Authority (or of
the Tax refund actually  receivable) by the PepsiCo Group. Payment of the amount
of such benefit shall be made within 30 days of the receipt by any member of the
PepsiCo Group of any refund,  credit or other offset  attributable  thereto from
the relevant Taxing Authority.

5.   Indemnities.

     (a)  TRICON  Indemnity.  TRICON and each  member of the  TRICON  Group will
jointly and  severally  indemnify  PepsiCo and the members of the PepsiCo  Group
that were members of a  Consolidated  Group that included such TRICON  Affiliate
against and hold them harmless from:

          (i)  any Tax  liability  of the  TRICON  Group  and any Tax  liability
     attributable to the Restructuring except for any Tax liability described in
     Section 5(b)(ii);

          (ii) any liability or damage  resulting from a breach by TRICON or any
     member of the TRICON Group of any representation or covenant made by TRICON
     herein;


          (iii)  any  Tax  liability   resulting  from  the   Distribution   and
     attributable  to any action of TRICON or any  member of the  TRICON  Group,
     without regard to whether the PepsiCo Vice President,  Tax has consented to
     such action;

          (iv) any Tax  liability  resulting  from the  recapture,  pursuant  to
     Section   904(f)  of  the  Code,   of  an  overall   foreign   loss  for  a
     Pre-Distribution Period to the extent that the PepsiCo Vice President,  Tax
     determines  that such loss is  attributable to operations of the Restaurant
     Business in a Pre-Distribution Period; and

          (v) all liabilities,  costs, expenses (including,  without limitation,
     reasonable  expenses of  investigation  and attorneys'  fees and expenses),
     losses,  damages,  assessments,  settlements or judgments arising out of or
     incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax liability or
     damage  described in (i), (ii),  (iii), or (iv) including those incurred in
     the  contest  in good  faith in  appropriate  proceedings  relating  to the
     imposition, assessment or assertion of any such Tax, liability or damage.

     (b) PepsiCo  Indemnity.  PepsiCo and each member of the PepsiCo  Group will
jointly and severally  indemnify TRICON and the members of the TRICON Group that
were  members of a  Consolidated  Group that  included  such  PepsiCo  Affiliate
against and hold them harmless from:

          (i) any Tax  liability  of the  PepsiCo  Group  and any Tax  liability
     resulting from the Distribution,  other than any such liabilities described
     in Section 5(a);

          (ii) with respect to the Restructuring, any Tax liability attributable
     to the  distribution  of certain  borrowing  proceeds  by TRICON to PepsiCo
     described in Section 13 of the  Separation  Agreement and any current Taxes
     attributable  to the  Restructuring  and shown as due on any Return for the
     period up to and including the Distribution Date and filed within 12 months
     of the  Distribution  Date;  provided,  however,  that  PepsiCo  shall have
     complete discretion in determining the amount of such Tax liabilities to be
     shown on such Returns;

          (iii) any  liability or damage  resulting  from a breach by PepsiCo or
     any member of the PepsiCo Group of any  representation  or covenant made by
     PepsiCo herein; and

          (iv) all liabilities,  costs, expenses (including, without limitation,
     reasonable  expenses of  investigation  and attorneys'  fees and expenses),
     losses,  damages,  assessments,  settlements or judgments arising out of or
     incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any Tax liability or
     damage  described in (i) or (ii) including those incurred in the contest in
     good  faith  in  appropriate   proceedings   relating  to  the  imposition,
     assessment or assertion of any such Tax,  liability or damage.  If a member
     of the PepsiCo  Group ceases to be an Affiliate of PepsiCo as a result of a
     sale of its stock to a third  party  (whether  or not  treated as a sale or
     exchange of stock for Tax purposes), such member of the PepsiCo Group shall
     be released from its  obligations  under this  Agreement upon such sale and
     neither  PepsiCo  nor any  member  of the  PepsiCo  Group  shall  have  any
     obligation  to  indemnify  TRICON or any member of the TRICON  Group  under
     Section 5(b)(iii) for any liability or damage attributable to actions taken
     by such Affiliate after such sale.

     (c) Discharge of Indemnity.  TRICON,  PepsiCo and the members of the TRICON
Group and PepsiCo Group,  respectively,  shall discharge their obligations under
Sections  5(a) and 5(b)  hereof,  respectively,  by paying the  relevant  amount
within 30 days of demand  therefor.  The PepsiCo Group shall be entitled to make
such a demand at any time after a member of the PepsiCo Group makes a payment or
deposit in  respect  of a Tax for which any  member of the  TRICON  Group has an
obligation under Section 5(a). The TRICON Group shall be entitled to make such a
demand at any time after a Final 


Determination  of an obligation of any member of the PepsiCo Group under Section
5(b).  Any such demand  shall  include a statement  showing the amount due under
Section  5(a) or 5(b),  as the case may be.  Calculation  mechanics  relating to
items  described in Section  5(a)(i) and 5(b)(i) are set forth in Section  3(c).
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if either TRICON,  PepsiCo or any member of the
TRICON Group or PepsiCo  Group  disputes in good faith the fact or the amount of
its obligation under Section 5(a) or Section 5(b), then no payment of the amount
in dispute  shall be required  until any such good faith  dispute is resolved in
accordance with Section 16 hereof;  provided,  however, that any amount not paid
within 30 days of demand therefor shall bear interest as provided in Section 9.

     (d) Tax  Benefits.  If an  indemnification  obligation of any member of the
PepsiCo Group or any member of the TRICON Group,  as the case may be, under this
Section  5  with  respect  to a  Consolidated  Group  arises  in  respect  of an
adjustment  that makes  allowable to a member of the TRICON Group or a member of
the PepsiCo Group,  respectively,  any deduction,  amortization,  exclusion from
income or other  allowance  (a "Tax  Benefit")  which  would  not,  but for such
adjustment, be allowable, then any payment by any member of the PepsiCo Group or
any member of the TRICON Group,  respectively,  pursuant to this Section 5 shall
be an amount equal to (x) the amount  otherwise due but for this subsection (d),
minus (y) the present value of the product of the Tax Benefit  multiplied (i) by
the maximum applicable federal,  foreign or state, as the case may be, corporate
tax rate in effect at the time such Tax Benefit becomes allowable to a member of
the TRICON  Group or a member of the PepsiCo  Group (as the case may be) or (ii)
in the case of a credit, by 100 percent. The present value of such product shall
be determined by discounting  such product from the time the Tax Benefit becomes
allowable at a rate equal to Prime.

     (e) For  purposes of this  Section 5, in the case of Taxes that are imposed
on a periodic basis and are payable for a Tax period that includes (but does not
end on) the Distribution Date, the portion of such Tax related to the portion of
such Tax  period  ending on the  Distribution  Date shall (x) in the case of any
Taxes other than Taxes based upon or related to income,  sales,  gross receipts,
wages, capital expenditures or expenses,  be deemed to be the amount of such Tax
for the entire Tax period multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the
number  of  days in the Tax  period  ending  on the  Distribution  Date  and the
denominator of which is the number of days in the entire Tax period,  and (y) in
the case of any Tax based  upon or related to  income,  sales,  gross  receipts,
wages,  capital  expenditures  or expenses,  be deemed equal to the amount which
would be payable if the relevant Tax period ended on the Distribution Date.

6.   Guarantees.  PepsiCo or TRICON,  as the case may be,  shall  guarantee  the
     obligations  of each  member  of the  PepsiCo  Group or the  TRICON  Group,
     respectively, under this Agreement.

7.   Communication and Cooperation

     (a) Consult and  Cooperate.  TRICON and PepsiCo shall consult and cooperate
(and  shall  cause  each  member  of the  TRICON  Group  or the  PepsiCo  Group,
respectively,  to  cooperate)  fully at such time and to the  extent  reasonably
requested  by the other party in  connection  with all  matters  subject to this
Agreement. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation,

          (i) the retention  and provision on reasonable  request of any and all
     information   including  all  books,   records,   documentation   or  other
     information pertaining to Tax matters relating to the PepsiCo Group and the
     TRICON Group,  any necessary  explanations  of  information,  and access to
     personnel, until one year after the expiration of the applicable statute of
     limitation (giving effect to any extension, waiver, or mitigation thereof);


          (ii) the execution of any document that may be necessary or helpful in
     connection  with any  required  Return  or in  connection  with any  audit,
     proceeding, suit or action; and

          (iii) the use of the parties' best efforts to obtain any documentation
     from a  governmental  authority  or a third party that may be  necessary or
     helpful in connection with the foregoing.

     (b) Provide  Information.  PepsiCo  and TRICON  shall keep each other fully
informed  with  respect to any  material  development  relating  to the  matters
subject to this Agreement.

         (c) Tax Attribute  Matters.  PepsiCo and TRICON shall  promptly  advise
each  other  with  respect  to  any  proposed  Tax  adjustments  relating  to  a
Consolidated  Group, which are the subject of an audit or investigation,  or are
     the subject of any proceeding or litigation, and which may affect any Tax
liability or any Tax attribute of PepsiCo, TRICON, the PepsiCo Group, the TRICON
Group or any member of the TRICON Group or the PepsiCo Group (including, but not
limited to, basis in an asset or the amount of earnings and profits).

8.   Audits and Contest.

     (a)  Notwithstanding  anything in this  Agreement to the contrary,  PepsiCo
shall  have full  control  over all  matters  relating  to any Return or any Tax
Proceeding  relating  to any Tax  matters of at least one member of the  PepsiCo
Group.  TRICON may, at its own expense,  participate in any such Tax Proceeding.
Except as provided in Section 8(b), PepsiCo shall have absolute  discretion with
respect to any  decisions  to be made,  or the nature of any action to be taken,
with respect to any matter described in the preceding sentence.

     (b) (i) No  settlement of any Tax  Proceeding  relating to any matter which
would cause a payment  obligation  under Sections 5(a) or 5(b) shall be accepted
or entered into by or on behalf of the party entitled to receive a payment under
either  Section  5(a)  or  5(b),  whichever  is  applicable,  unless  the  party
ultimately  responsible  for such  payment  under  either  Section 5(a) or 5(b),
whichever is applicable (the  "Indemnitor"),  consents thereto in writing (which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); provided, however, that,
notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement,  PepsiCo may settle
any Tax  Proceeding if it determines,  in its sole judgment,  that TRICON is not
cooperating in such Tax Proceeding;  . If the Indemnitor does not respond to the
indemnified  party's  request for consent within 30 days, the Indemnitor will be
deemed to have consented to the settlement.

          (ii) Upon request, during the course of any Tax Proceeding relating to
     a Tax liability or damage described in Section 5(a), TRICON shall from time
     to time furnish PepsiCo with evidence reasonably satisfactory to PepsiCo of
     TRICON's ability to pay the amount for which it is responsible  pursuant to
     Section 5(a). If at any time during such Tax Proceeding  PepsiCo determines
     that

     TRICON could not pay such amount,  then TRICON shall be required to furnish
a guarantee or performance  bond  satisfactory  to PepsiCo in an amount equal to
the amount for which TRICON is  responsible  pursuant to Section 5(a). If TRICON
fails to furnish such  guarantee or bond,  PepsiCo may settle the Tax proceeding
without TRICON's consent, and TRICON shall remain obligated to indemnify PepsiCo
pursuant to Section 5(a).

          (iii) Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement,  in
     the event a Tax  Proceeding  involves  an issue  that is common to both the
     PepsiCo  Group and the  TRICON  Group,  including  but not  limited  to the
     pending  litigation  regarding Section 1253 of the Code,  PepsiCo shall use
     its best  efforts to settle such issues on behalf of the PepsiCo  Group and
     the TRICON Group on a consistent  basis. 


          (iv) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement,  with
     respect to any Tax Proceeding  involving  issues solely related to a TRICON
     Tax liability, TRICON shall have control over such Tax Proceeding.

          (v) With  respect to any Tax  Proceeding  that relates to a TRICON Tax
     liability,  PepsiCo agrees to act in good faith on behalf of TRICON and the
     members of the TRICON Group in settling such Tax Proceeding.

     (c) The  indemnified  party agrees to give notice to the  Indemnitor of the
assertion of any claim, or the commencement of any suit, action or proceeding in
respect  of which  indemnity  may be  sought  hereunder  within  30 days of such
assertion or commencement,  or such earlier time that would allow the Indemnitor
to timely respond to such claim, suit action or proceeding.

     (d) With respect to Returns  relating to Taxes solely  attributable  to the
TRICON Group, TRICON and the members of the TRICON Group shall have full control
over all matters relating to any Tax Proceeding in connection therewith.  TRICON
and the members of the TRICON Group shall have absolute  discretion with respect
to any  decisions  to be made,  or the  nature of any  action to be taken,  with
respect to any matter described in the preceding sentence.

9.   Payments.  All payments to be made  hereunder  shall be made in immediately
     available funds. Except as otherwise provided,  all payments required to be
     made  pursuant to this  Agreement  will be due 30 days after the receipt of
     notice of such payment or,  where no notice is required,  30 days after the
     fixing of  liability  or the  resolution  of a dispute.  Payments  shall be
     deemed  made when  received.  Any  payment  that is not made by the PepsiCo
     Group when due shall  bear  interest  at LIBOR  minus 10 basis  points,  as
     quoted from time to time,  for each day until paid. Any payment that is not
     made by the  TRICON  Group when due shall  bear  interest  at LIBOR plus 75
     basis  points,  as quoted from time to time,  for each day until paid.  If,
     pursuant  to a Final  Determination,  any  amount  paid by  PepsiCo  or the
     members of the PepsiCo  Group or TRICON or the members of the TRICON Group,
     as the case may be, pursuant to this Agreement results in any increased Tax
     liability  or  reduction  of any Tax Asset of  TRICON or any  member of the
     TRICON Group or PepsiCo or any member of the PepsiCo  Group,  respectively,
     then PepsiCo or TRICON, as appropriate, shall indemnify the other party and
     hold  it  harmless  from  any  interest  or  penalty  attributable  to such
     increased Tax liability or the reduction of such Tax Asset and shall pay to
     the other  party,  in addition to amounts  otherwise  owed,  the  After-Tax
     Amount.  With  respect  to any  payment  required  to be  made  under  this
     Agreement,  the PepsiCo Vice President,  Tax has the right to designate, by
     written  notice to TRICON,  which member of the TRICON Group or the PepsiCo
     Group,  as the case may be, will make or receive  such payment and in which
     currency such payment will be made.

10.  Notices.  Any notice,  demand,  claim,  or other  communication  under this
     Agreement  shall be in writing  and shall be deemed to have been given upon
     the  delivery  or  mailing  thereof,  as the  case  may  be,  if  delivered
     personally or sent by certified  mail,  return receipt  requested,  postage
     prepaid,  to the  parties  at the  following  addresses  (or at such  other
     address as a party may specify by notice to the other):


     If to PepsiCo or the PepsiCo Group, to:

         Matthew McKenna
         Vice President, Tax
         PepsiCo, Inc.
         700 Anderson Hill Road
         Purchase, New York 10577-1444 


     If to TRICON or the TRICON Group, to:

         Steve Feilmeier
         Vice President, Tax
         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
         1441 Gardiner Lane
         Louisville, KY 40213

11.  Costs and Expenses.

          (i) Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement,  each party shall
     bear its own costs and expenses  incurred  pursuant to this Agreement.  For
     purposes of this  Agreement,  costs and expenses shall include,  but not be
     limited to,  reasonable  attorney fees,  accountant  fees and other related
     professional  fees  and  disbursements.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the
     contrary in this  Agreement,  the TRICON Group will be responsible  for its
     allocable portion, as determined by the PepsiCo Vice President, Tax, of (i)
     all costs and expenses  attributable to filing any Return that reflects the
     income, assets or operations of the TRICON Group and any Return required to
     be filed in  connection  with the  Restructuring,  and (ii) all  costs  and
     expenses  incurred by PepsiCo in complying with the provisions of Section 7
     of this Agreement.

          (ii) With respect to all Tax Proceedings, including pending litigation
     with any Taxing  Authority,  costs shall be  allocated in good faith by the
     PepsiCo  Vice  President,  Tax.  Each party  hereto shall be liable for its
     allocable portion of such costs as provided in Section 5.

12.  Effectiveness:  Termination  and  Survival.  This  Agreement  shall  become
     effective  upon  the  consummation  of the  Distribution.  All  rights  and
     obligations arising hereunder with respect to a Pre-Distribution Tax Period
     shall survive until they are fully effectuated or performed and,  provided,
     further,  that notwithstanding  anything in this Agreement to the contrary,
     this Agreement shall remain in effect and its provisions  shall survive for
     one year after the full period of all  applicable  statutes  of  limitation
     (giving  effect to any extension,  waiver or mitigation  thereof) and, with
     respect to any claim  hereunder  initiated prior to the end of such period,
     until such claim has been satisfied or otherwise resolved.

13.  Section  Headlines.  The headings  contained in this Agreement are inserted
     for  convenience  only and shall not constitute a part hereof or in any way
     affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

14.  Entire Agreement: Amendments and Waivers.

     (a) Entire Agreement.  This Agreement contains the entire  understanding of
the parties  hereto with  respect to the subject  matter  contained  herein.  No
alteration,  amendment,  modification,  or  waiver  of any of the  terms of this
Agreement shall be valid unless made by an instrument signed by an authorized of
officer of each of PepsiCo and TRICON,  or in the case of a waiver, by the party
against whom the waiver is to be effective.

     (b) Amendments and Waivers.  No failure or delay by any party in exercising
any right,  power or privilege  hereunder  shall  operate as a waiver hereof nor
shall any  single or  partial  exercise  thereof  preclude  any other or further
exercise  thereof  or the  exercise  of any  right,  power  or  privilege.  This
Agreement shall not be waived,  amended or otherwise modified except in writing,
duly executed by all of the parties hereto.


15.  Governing Law and  Interpretation.  This  Agreement  shall be construed and
     enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina without
     giving effect to laws and principles relating to conflicts of law.

16.  Dispute  Resolution.  If the  parties  hereto  are  unable to  resolve  any
     disagreement  or dispute  relating  to this  Agreement,  including  but not
     limited to whether a transaction is part of the Restructuring and whether a
     Tax  liability is a PepsiCo Tax Liability or a TRICON Tax  Liability,  such
     dispute shall be resolved in good faith by the PepsiCo Vice President, Tax.

17.  Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts,
     each of which shall be deemed an original,  but all of which together shall
     constitute one and the same Agreement.

18.  Assignments;  Third Party  Beneficiaries.  Except as provided  below,  this
     Agreement  shall be binding upon and shall inure only to the benefit of the
     parties  hereto and their  respective  successors  and assigns,  by merger,
     acquisition  of assets  or  otherwise  (including  but not  limited  to any
     successor of a party hereto  succeeding to the Tax attributes of such party
     under applicable law). This Agreement is not intended to benefit any person
     other than the parties hereto and such successors and assigns,  and no such
     other  person shall be a third party  beneficiary  hereof.  If,  during the
     period beginning on the Distribution Date and ending upon the expiration of
     the  survival  period set forth in Section 12, any  corporation  becomes an
     Affiliate  of TRICON,  such  Affiliate  shall be bound by the terms of this
     Agreement and TRICON shall provide  evidence to PepsiCo of such Affiliate's
     agreement to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

19.  Authorization.  etc.  Each of the  parties  hereto  hereby  represents  and
     warrants  that it has the power  and  authority  to  execute,  deliver  and
     perform this Agreement, that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all
     necessary  corporate action on the part of such party,  that this Agreement
     constitutes a legal,  valid and binding  obligation of each such party, and
     that the  execution,  delivery and  performance  of this  Agreement by such
     party does not  contravene  or conflict with any provision or law or of its
     charter or bylaws or any  agreement,  instrument  or order  binding on such
     party.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Agreement as of
the day and year first written above.

                              PepsiCo  on its own  behalf  and 
                              on  behalf of the members of the 
                              PepsiCo Group.

                              By:  /s/ Karl M. von der Heyden
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Karl M. von der Heyden
                                   Chief Financial Officer



                              TRICON on its own behalf and
                              on behalf of the members of the
                              TRICON Group

                              By:  /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
                                   ---------------------------------------------
                                   Andrall E. Pearson
                                   Chairman of the Board



                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.3


                           EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS AGREEMENT
                              between PepsiCo, Inc.
                                       and
                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

                           Dated as of August 26, 1997

                                


1 DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES................................................1
     1.1 DEFINITIONS........................................................1
         (a) 414(l)(1) Amount...............................................1
         (b) Action.........................................................1
         (c) Agreement......................................................2
         (d) ASO Contract...................................................2
         (e) Award..........................................................2
         (f) Casual Dining Businesses.......................................2
         (g) Bulk Asset Transfer............................................2
         (h) Close of the Distribution Date.................................2
         (i) Code...........................................................2
         (j) Conversion Formula.............................................2
         (k) Deferral Programs..............................................2
         (l) Distribution...................................................2
         (m) Distribution Date..............................................3
         (n) DRIP...........................................................3
         (o) ERISA..........................................................3
         (p) Executive Programs.............................................3
         (q) Foreign Plan...................................................3
         (r) Governmental Authority.........................................3
         (s) Group Insurance Policy.........................................3
         (t) Health and Welfare Plans.......................................3
         (u) Hiring Company.................................................4
         (v) HMO............................................................4
         (w) HMO Agreements.................................................4
         (x) Immediately after the Distribution Date........................4
         (y) Individual Agreement...........................................4
         (z) Indemnitor.....................................................4
         (aa) Initial Asset Transfer........................................4
         (bb) Liabilities...................................................5
         (cc) Long-Term Incentive Plan......................................5
         (dd) LTD VEBA......................................................5
         (ee) Master Trust..................................................5
         (ff) Material Feature..............................................5
         (gg) Participating Company.........................................5
         (hh) Pension Equalization Plan.....................................5

                                      -i-

         (ii) Pension Plan..................................................6
         (jj) PepsiCo Capital Stock.........................................6
         (kk) PepsiCo Executive.............................................6
         (ll) PepsiCo Group.................................................6
         (mm) PepsiCo Leave of Absence Programs.............................6
         (nn) Person........................................................6
         (oo) Plan..........................................................6
         (pp) Prior Company.................................................6
         (qq) Record Date...................................................7
         (rr) Reimbursement Plans...........................................7
         (ss) Restaurant Businesses.........................................7
         (tt) Salaried Employee.............................................7
         (uu) Savings Plan..................................................7
         (vv) Separation Agreement..........................................7
         (ww) SharePower Plan...............................................7
         (xx) Short-Term Incentive Plan.....................................7
         (yy) Stock Option Incentive Plan...................................8
         (zz) Stock Purchase Plan...........................................8
         (aaa) Subsequent Asset Transfer....................................8
         (bbb) Subsidiary...................................................8
         (ccc) Transferred Individual.......................................8
         (ddd) Transition Individual........................................9
         (eee) Transition Period............................................9
         (fff) TRICON Common Stock.........................................10
         (ggg) TRICON Group................................................10
     1.2 REFERENCES........................................................10

2 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.......................................................11
     2.1 ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES.........................................11
     2.2 TRICON PARTICIPATION IN PEPSICO PLANS.............................11
         (a) Participation in PepsiCo Plans and 
             PepsiCo Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans...................11
         (b) PepsiCo's General Obligations as Plan Sponsor.................12
         (c) TRICON's General Obligations as Participating Company.........12
         (d) Termination of Participating Company Status...................12
     2.3 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRICON PLANS.....................................12
     2.4 TERMS OF PARTICIPATION BY TRANSFERRED INDIVIDUALS.................13
     2.5 RESTRICTION ON PLAN AMENDMENTS....................................13

3 DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS....................................................14
     3.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF MIRROR PENSION TRUSTS............................14
     3.2 PIZZA HUT PENSION PLANS...........................................14
     3.3 ASSUMPTION OF PENSION PLAN AND PENSION EQUALIZATION 
         PLAN LIABILITIES AND ALLOCATION OF INTERESTS IN THE PEPSICO 
         PENSION TRUST.....................................................14
         (a) Assumption of Liabilities by TRICON Pension Plan..............14
         (b) Asset Allocations and Transfers...............................14
     3.4 ACTION IN EVENT OF PBGC INTERVENTION..............................16


                                      -ii-

4 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS...............................................17
     4.1 SAVINGS PLAN......................................................17
         (a) Savings Plan Trust............................................17
         (b) Assumption of Liabilities and Transfer of Assets..............17
         (c) Non-Employer Stock Funds......................................17
         (d) Miscellaneous Funds...........................................18
     4.2 ESOP..............................................................18

5 HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS.................................................19
     5.1 ASSUMPTION OF HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN LIABILITIES.................19
     5.2 ESTABLISHMENT OF MIRROR LTD VEBA..................................19
     5.3 LTD VEBA ASSET TRANSFERS..........................................19
     5.4 CONTRIBUTIONS TO, INVESTMENTS OF, AND DISTRIBUTIONS FROM VEBAS....20
     5.5 VENDOR CONTRACTS..................................................20
         (a) ASO Contracts, Group Insurance Policies, HMO Agreements 
             and Letters of Understanding..................................20
         (b) Effect of Change in Rates.....................................21
         (c) Management of the ASO Contracts, Group Insurance 
             Policies, HMO Agreements, Letters of Understanding 
             and other Vendor Contracts....................................21
     5.6 PEPSICO SALARY CONTINUATION.......................................21
     5.7 POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE BENEFITS.................22
     5.8 COBRA AND HIPAA...................................................22
     5.9 LEAVE OF ABSENCE PROGRAMS.........................................22
     5.10 PEPSICO WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAM............................22
     5.11 PEPSICO PRIVATE LINE EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.................23
     5.12 POST-DISTRIBUTION TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS......................23
         (a) Continuance of Elections, Co-Payments and Maximum Benefits....23
         (b) Administration................................................23
         (c) Other Post-Distribution Transitional Rules....................24
     5.13 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 5 TO THE TRICON GROUP.....................24

6 EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS.......................................................25
     6.1 ASSUMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS.........................................25
     6.2 SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS........................................25
     6.3 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AND STOCK OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN..........25
         (a) Transferred Individuals Who Are Active Employees of TRICON....25
         (b) Transferred Individuals Who Are Not Active Employees of 
             TRICON........................................................27
     6.4 DEFERRAL PROGRAMS.................................................27
         (a) PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program.....................27
         (b) PepsiCo Performance Share Unit Deferral Program...............28
         (c) PepsiCo Option Gains Deferral Program.........................28
     6.5 RESTAURANT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.............................28
     6.6 EXECUTIVE LOAN PROGRAM............................................28
     6.7 STOCK OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN RECORDKEEPING ACCOUNTS................29

                                     -iii-


7 MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS...................................................30
     7.1 SHAREPOWER PLAN...................................................30
         (a) Treatment of Outstanding Grants Under PepsiCo SharePower 
             Plan..........................................................30
         (b) Recordkeeping Accounts........................................30
     7.2 STOCK PURCHASE PLAN...............................................31
         (a) Transfer of PepsiCo Capital Stock.............................31
         (b) Transfer of TRICON Common Stock...............................31

8 TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS................................................32
     8.1 TRANSITION INDIVIDUALS/RECOGNITION OF SERVICE.....................32
     8.2 PENSION PLANS.....................................................32
         (a) Assumption of Liabilities/Noncommencement of Pensions.........32
         (b) Asset/Liability Allocations and Transfers.....................32
     8.3 SAVINGS PLAN......................................................33
     8.4 HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS..........................................33
         (a) Continuance of Elections, Co-Payments, and Maximum Benefits...33
         (b) Reimbursement Plans...........................................33
     8.5 EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS................................................33
         (a) Long-Term Incentive Plan and Stock Option Incentive Plan......33
         (b) Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan.........................34
         (c) Deferral Programs.............................................34
     8.6 SHAREPOWER PLANS..................................................34
     8.7 STOCK PURCHASE PLANS..............................................34
     8.8 SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN.........................................34

9 GENERAL..................................................................35
     9.1 PAYMENT OF AND ACCOUNTING TREATMENT FOR EXPENSES AND BALANCE 
         SHEET AMOUNTS.....................................................35
         (a) Expenses......................................................35
         (b) Balance Sheet Amounts.........................................35
     9.2 SHARING OF PARTICIPANT INFORMATION................................35
     9.3 RESTRICTIONS ON EXTENSION OF OPTION EXERCISE PERIODS, 
         AMENDMENT OR MODIFICATION OF OPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS..........35
     9.4 NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES.....................................36
     9.5 REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE AND COMMUNICATIONS TO PARTICIPANTS.......36
     9.6 PLAN AUDITS.......................................................36
         (a) Audit Rights with Respect to the Allocation or Transfer of 
             Plan Assets...................................................36
         (b) Audit Rights With Respect to Information Provided.............37
         (c) Audits Regarding Vendor Contracts.............................37
     9.7 BENEFICIARY DESIGNATIONS..........................................37
     9.8 REQUESTS FOR INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE RULINGS AND UNITED 
         STATES DEPARTMENT OF LABOR OPINIONS...............................38
         (a) Cooperation...................................................38
         (b) Applications..................................................38
     9.9 FIDUCIARY AND RELATED MATTERS.....................................38
     9.10 NON-TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT; NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES......38
     9.11 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING............................................39
     9.12 CONSENT OF THIRD PARTIES..................................... ...39

                                      -iv-

     9.13 FOREIGN PLANS....................................................39
     9.14 EFFECT IF DISTRIBUTION DOES NOT OCCUR............................39
     9.15 RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES..........................................39
     9.16 AFFILIATES.......................................................40
     9.17 ARBITRATION......................................................40
     9.18 INDEMNIFICATION..................................................40
     9.19 NOTICES..........................................................42
     9.20 INTERPRETATION...................................................42
     9.21 GOVERNING LAW/EXECUTION..........................................42

APPENDIX A PEPSICO EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS......................................43

APPENDIX B HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS........................................44

APPENDIX C FOREIGN PLANS...................................................46


                                      -v-




                           EMPLOYEE PROGRAMS AGREEMENT

     This EMPLOYEE  PROGRAMS  AGREEMENT,  dated as of August 26, 1997, is by and
between  PepsiCo,  Inc., a North Carolina  corporation  ("PepsiCo"),  and TRICON
Global Restaurants, Inc., a North Carolina corporation ("TRICON").

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo has decided to  consolidate  the assets and operations of
its  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco  Bell  businesses  (collectively,  the
"Restaurant  Businesses")  into TRICON and TRICON's  subsidiaries and affiliates
and to distribute  the Common Stock of TRICON to the holders of PepsiCo  Capital
Stock (the "Distribution"); and

     WHEREAS, PepsiCo and TRICON have entered into a Separation Agreement, dated
as of the date of this agreement (the "Separation Agreement"), and certain other
agreements that will govern certain matters relating to the Distribution and the
relationship of PepsiCo and TRICON and their respective  Subsidiaries  following
the Distribution; and

     WHEREAS,  pursuant  to the  Separation  Agreement,  PepsiCo and TRICON have
agreed to enter  into this  Agreement  for the  purpose  of  allocating  assets,
liabilities,  and responsibilities with respect to certain employee compensation
and benefit plans and programs between them;

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration of the mutual promises  contained herein
and in the  Separation  Agreement,  the  Parties (as that term is defined in the
Separation Agreement) agree as follows:

                                     ARTICLE
                           DEFINITIONS AND REFERENCES


1.1  DEFINITIONS

     For  purposes  of this  Agreement,  capitalized  terms used (other than the
formal  names of PepsiCo  Plans (as defined  below)) and not  otherwise  defined
shall have the respective meanings assigned to them below or as assigned to them
in the Separation Agreement (as defined above):

     (a) 414(l)(1) Amount

     "414(l)(1)  Amount"  means,  the minimum  amount  necessary  to fund vested
benefits  under  the  PepsiCo  Pension  Plan and the  TRICON  Pension  Plan on a
"termination   basis"   (as  that   term  is   defined   in  Treas.   Reg.   ss.
1.414(l)-1(b)(5))  in  accordance  with the actuarial  assumptions  described in
Section 3.3.

     (b) Action

     "Action"  means any demand,  action,  cause of action,  suit,  countersuit,
arbitration, inquiry, proceeding, or investigation by or before any Governmental
Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal, pending or threatened, known
or unknown.

     (c) Agreement

     "Agreement"  means this  Employee  Programs  Agreement,  including  all the
attached Appendices.


     (d) ASO Contract

     "ASO Contract"  means an  administrative  services only  contract,  related
prior practice, or related  understanding with a third-party  administrator that
pertains to any PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plan, PepsiCo  Restaurants Health and
Welfare Plan, or TRICON Health and Welfare Plan.

     (e) Award

     "Award"  means an award under a Long-Term  Incentive  Plan or a  Short-Term
Incentive  Plan or, as the context or facts may  require,  any other award under
another incentive or special bonus, incentive, or award program or arrangement.

     (f) Casual Dining Businesses

     "Casual  Dining  Businesses"  has the  meaning  given  that term  under the
Separation Agreement.

     (g) Bulk Asset Transfer

     "Bulk Asset Transfer" is defined in Section 3.3(b)(2).

     (h) Close of the Distribution Date

     "Close of the Distribution Date" means 11:59:59 P.M., Eastern Daylight Time
on the Distribution Date.

     (i) Code

     "Code"  means  the  Internal  Revenue  Code of  1986,  as  amended,  or any
successor  federal  income tax law.  Reference to a specific Code provision also
includes  any  proposed,  temporary,  or final  regulation  in force  under that
provision.

     (j) Conversion Formula

     "Conversion  Formula" means the appropriate  formula  described in the Form
10, filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission by PepsiCo in connection
with the  Distribution,  which shall be applied for adjusting the exercise price
and award size of PepsiCo stock options  under the PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive
Plan,  PepsiCo  SharePower  Plan and PepsiCo Stock Option  Incentive Plan or for
determining  the exercise  price and number of TRICON stock options  issued as a
result of the conversion of PepsiCo options granted under the PepsiCo  Long-Term
Incentive  Plan,  the  PepsiCo  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan  and the  PepsiCo
SharePower Plan, as applicable.

     (k) Deferral Programs

     "Deferral  Programs,"  when  immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the PepsiCo,  Inc.  Executive Income Deferral Program,  the PepsiCo,  Inc.
Performance  Share Unit Deferral  Program,  and the PepsiCo,  Inc.  Option Gains
Deferral Program.  When immediately  preceded by "TRICON" or when the applicable
Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the TRICON Group, "Deferral Plan"
means the executive  income deferral  program,  performance  share unit deferral
program  and the  option  gains  deferral  program to be  established  by TRICON
pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (l) Distribution

     "Distribution"  has the  meaning  given  that  term  under  the  Separation
Agreement.



     (m) Distribution Date

     "Distribution  Date" has the meaning  given that term under the  Separation
Agreement.

     (n) DRIP

     "DRIP,"  when  immediately  preceded by  "PepsiCo"  or when the  applicable
Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the  PepsiCo  Group,  means the
PepsiCo Dividend  Reinvestment  Plan. When  immediately  preceded by "TRICON" or
when the  applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior Company is a member of the TRICON
Group, "DRIP" means the dividend  reinvestment plan or program to be established
by TRICON.

     (o) ERISA

     "ERISA"  means the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
amended.  Reference to a specific provision of ERISA also includes any proposed,
temporary, or final regulation in force under that provision.

     (p) Executive Programs

     "Executive  Programs," when  immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the executive benefit and nonqualified plans,  programs,  and arrangements
established,  maintained,  agreed  upon,  or assumed by a member of the  PepsiCo
Group for the  benefit  of  employees  and  former  employees  of members of the
PepsiCo Group before the Close of the Distribution Date, including the plans and
programs listed in Appendix A. When immediately preceded by "TRICON" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company  is a member of the TRICON  Group,
"Executive  Programs"  means the  executive  benefit  plans and  programs  to be
established by TRICON  pursuant to Section 2.3 that correspond to the respective
PepsiCo Executive Programs including those plans and programs listed in Appendix
A.

     (q) Foreign Plan

     "Foreign  Plan,"  when  immediately  preceded  by  "PepsiCo,"  means a Plan
maintained by the PepsiCo Group or when immediately preceded as "TRICON," a plan
maintained by the TRICON Group,  in either case for the benefit of employees who
are  compensated  under a payroll  which is  administered  outside the 50 United
States, its territories and possessions, and the District of Columbia.

     (r) Governmental Authority

     "Governmental  Authority"  means any federal,  state,  local,  foreign,  or
international court, government,  department, commission, board, bureau, agency,
official,  or  other  regulatory,  administrative,  or  governmental  authority,
including the Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service, and the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation.

     (s) Group Insurance Policy

     "Group  Insurance   Policy"  means  a  group  insurance  policy  issued  in
connection with any PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plan, PepsiCo  Restaurants Health
and Welfare Plan, or any TRICON Health and Welfare Plan, as applicable.

     (t) Health and Welfare Plans

     "Health and Welfare Plans," when immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or when
the applicable Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the PepsiCo Group,
means the health and welfare  


benefit  plans,  programs,  and policies  which are  sponsored by PepsiCo.  When
immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo  Restaurant," "Health and Welfare Plans" means
the benefit plans,  programs and policies listed in the first part of Appendix B
to this Agreement that are sponsored by a member of the TRICON Group for periods
immediately  before the Close of the  Distribution  Date, and such other welfare
plans or  programs as may apply to any such  member's  employees,  retirees  and
dependents for such periods.  When immediately  preceded by "TRICON" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company  is a member of the TRICON  Group,
"Health and Welfare Plans" means benefit plans, programs, and policies listed in
the second part of Appendix B to this Agreement  which are sponsored by a member
of the TRICON Group for periods Immediately after the Distribution Date.

     (u) Hiring Company

     "Hiring  Company,"  with  respect to a Transition  Individual  described in
Section  1.1(ddd)(1)  or (4),  means a member of the PepsiCo  Group,  and,  with
respect to a  Transition  Individual  described in Section  1.1(ddd)(2)  or (3),
means a member of the TRICON Group.

     (v) HMO

     "HMO" means a health maintenance  organization that provides benefits under
the PepsiCo Health and Welfare  Plans,  PepsiCo  Restaurants  Health and Welfare
Plans, or the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans, as applicable.

     (w) HMO Agreements

     "HMO  Agreements"  means  contracts,  letter  agreements,   practices,  and
understandings  with HMOs that provide medical services under the PepsiCo Health
and Welfare Plans,  PepsiCo  Restaurants  Health and Welfare  Plans,  and TRICON
Health and Welfare Plans, as applicable.

     (x) Immediately after the Distribution Date

     "Immediately  after  the  Distribution  Date"  means  12:00  A.M.,  Eastern
Daylight Time on the day after the Distribution Date.

     (y) Individual Agreement

     "Individual  Agreement" means an individual  contract or agreement (whether
written or  unwritten)  entered into between a member of the PepsiCo  Group or a
member of the TRICON Group and any employee that  establishes  the right of such
individual to special  compensation or benefits,  special bonuses,  supplemental
pension  benefits,   hiring  bonuses,   loans,   guaranteed  payments,   special
allowances, tax equalization payments, special expatriate compensation payments,
disability benefits,  or share units granted (and payable in the form of cash or
otherwise) under individual phantom share agreements,  or that provides benefits
similar to those identified in Appendix A.

     (z) Indemnitor

     "Indemnitor" is defined in Section 9.18.

     (aa) Initial Asset Transfer

     "Initial Asset Transfer" is defined in Section 3.3(b)(2).


     (bb) Liabilities

     "Liabilities" means any and all losses,  claims,  charges,  debts, demands,
actions,  costs and expenses  (including  administrative  and related  costs and
expenses  of any Plan,  program,  or  arrangement),  of any  nature  whatsoever,
whether   absolute  or   contingent,   matured  or   unmatured,   liquidated  or
unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising.

     (cc) Long-Term Incentive Plan

     "Long-Term  Incentive Plan," when immediately preceded by "PepsiCo" or when
the applicable Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the PepsiCo Group,
means the PepsiCo,  Inc. 1987 Long-Term  Incentive Plan, the PepsiCo,  Inc. 1994
Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  and any other  long-term  incentive or  stock-based
incentive  plans  assumed by a member of the PepsiCo  Group by reason of merger,
acquisition,  or otherwise.  When  immediately  preceded by "TRICON" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company  is a member of the TRICON  Group,
"Long-Term  Incentive Plan" means the long-term incentive plan to be established
by TRICON pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (dd) LTD VEBA

     "LTD VEBA," when immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo," means the PepsiCo Long
Term Disability Benefit Trust. When immediately preceded by "TRICON," "LTD VEBA"
means the welfare  benefit fund to be established by TRICON  pursuant to Section
5.2 that corresponds to the PepsiCo LTD VEBA. (ee) Master Trust

     "Master Trust," when  immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo",  means the master
trusts  evidenced by the PepsiCo,  Inc. Master Trust Agreement dated February 1,
1978 and the PepsiCo,  Inc.  Special Master Trust  Agreement dated September 11,
1985, as amended from time to time, and currently  associated  with, among other
plans, the PepsiCo Pension Plan and the Pizza Hut Pension Plan. When immediately
preceded by "TRICON," "Master Trust" means the master trust(s) to be established
by TRICON pursuant to Section 3.1 that corresponds to the PepsiCo Master Trust.

     (ff) Material Feature

     "Material  Feature"  means any feature of a Plan that could  reasonably  be
expected  to be of  material  importance  to  the  sponsoring  employer  or  the
participants and  beneficiaries  of the Plan, which could include,  depending on
the type and purpose of the  particular  Plan, the class or classes of employees
eligible to participate in such Plan, the nature,  type, form, source, and level
of benefits  provided by the employer under such Plan and the amount or level of
contributions,  if any, required to be made by participants (or their dependents
or beneficiaries) to such Plan.

     (gg) Participating Company

     "Participating Company" means any Person (other than an individual) that is
participating  in a Plan  sponsored by a member of the PepsiCo Group or a member
of the TRICON Group, as the context requires.

     (hh) Pension Equalization Plan

     "Pension Equalization Plan," when immediately preceded by "PepsiCo" or when
the applicable Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the PepsiCo Group,
means the  PepsiCo  Pension  Equalization  Plan.  When  immediately  preceded by
"TRICON" or when the  applicable  Hiring Company 


or Prior Company is a member of the TRICON Group,  "Pension  Equalization  Plan"
means  the  plan to be  established  by  TRICON  pursuant  to  Section  2.3 that
corresponds to the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan.

     (ii) Pension Plan

     "Pension  Plan,"  when  immediately  preceded  by  "PepsiCo"  or  when  the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the PepsiCo Salaried Employees  Retirement Plan. When immediately preceded
by "TRICON" or when the  applicable  Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member
of the TRICON Group,  "Pension  Plan" means the plan to be established by TRICON
pursuant  to Section 2.3 that  corresponds  to the PepsiCo  Pension  Plan.  When
immediately  preceded by "Pizza Hut,"  "Pension Plan" means the Pizza Hut Hourly
Employees Pension Plan.

     (jj) PepsiCo Capital Stock

     "PepsiCo  Capital  Stock" has the meaning given that term in the Separation
Agreement.

     (kk) PepsiCo Executive

     "PepsiCo Executive" means an employee or former employee of a member of the
PepsiCo Group or a member of the TRICON Group, who immediately  before the Close
of the  Distribution  Date is or was  eligible  to  participate  in or receive a
benefit under any PepsiCo Executive Program.

     (ll) PepsiCo Group

     "PepsiCo  Group"  has the  meaning  given  that term  under the  Separation
Agreement.

     (mm) PepsiCo Leave of Absence Programs

     "PepsiCo  Leave of Absence  Programs"  means the leave of absence  programs
offered from time to time under the personnel  policies and practices of PepsiCo
and leaves offered in accordance  with the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993,
as amended.

     (nn) Person

     "Person"  means  an  individual,  a  general  or  limited  partnership,   a
corporation, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated organization, a limited
liability entity, any other entity, and any Governmental Authority.

     (oo) Plan

     "Plan," when immediately preceded by "PepsiCo" or "TRICON," means any plan,
policy,  program,  payroll  practice,  on-going  arrangement,  contract,  trust,
insurance  policy or other  agreement  or funding  vehicle,  whether  written or
unwritten,  providing benefits to employees,  or former employees of the PepsiCo
Group or the TRICON Group, as applicable.

     (pp) Prior Company

     "Prior  Company,"  with  respect to a  Transition  Individual  described in
Section 1.1(ddd)(1) or (4), means a member of the TRICON Group and, with respect
to a Transition  Individual  described in Section  1.1(ddd)(2)  or (3),  means a
member of the PepsiCo Group.


     (qq) Record Date

     "Record  Date"  has the  meaning  given  that  term  under  the  Separation
Agreement.

     (rr) Reimbursement Plans

     "Reimbursement  Plans," when immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the PepsiCo Inc.  health care  reimbursement  account plan that is part of
the PepsiCo Employees Health Care Program and the PepsiCo,  Inc.  Dependent Care
Reimbursement Account Plan, as applicable. When immediately preceded by "TRICON"
or when the applicable Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the TRICON
Group, "Reimbursement Account Plans" means the health care reimbursement account
plan and the dependent  care  reimbursement  account plan to be  established  by
TRICON  pursuant to Section 2.3 that  corresponds to the  corresponding  PepsiCo
Reimbursement Plan.

     (ss) Restaurant Businesses

     "Restaurant  Businesses" is defined in the second paragraph of the preamble
of this Agreement.

     (tt) Salaried Employee

     "Salaried Employee" means any individual who is an eligible employee within
the  meaning  of the  PepsiCo  Pension  Plan  or the  TRICON  Pension  Plan,  as
applicable.

     (uu) Savings Plan

     "Savings  Plan,"  when  immediately  preceded  by  "PepsiCo"  or  when  the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the  PepsiCo  Long Term  Savings  Program.  When  immediately  preceded by
"TRICON" or when the  applicable  Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of
the TRICON Group,  "Savings Plan" means the TRICON Long Term Savings  Program to
be established by TRICON pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (vv) Separation Agreement

     "Separation Agreement" is defined in the third paragraph of the preamble of
this Agreement.

     (ww) SharePower Plan

     "SharePower  Plan,"  when  immediately  preceded by  "PepsiCo"  or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the PepsiCo  SharePower  Stock Option Plan. When  immediately  preceded by
"TRICON" or when the  applicable  Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of
the  TRICON  Group,  "SharePower  Plan"  means  the  stock  option  plan  to  be
established by TRICON pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (xx) Short-Term Incentive Plan

     "Short-Term  Incentive Plan," when immediately preceded by "PepsiCo," means
the PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Executive Incentive  Compensation Plan, the PepsiCo, Inc.
Executive Incentive Plan, the Middle Management Incentive Compensation Plan, and
any other special compensation,  bonus and incentive compensation programs. When
immediately  preceded  by  "TRICON,"   "Short-Term  Incentive  Plan"  means  the
executive  incentive  compensation  plan,  executive  incentive plan, the middle
management  compensation  plan and any  other  special  compensation,  bonus and
incentive  compensation programs to be established by TRICON pursuant to Section
2.3.


     (yy) Stock Option Incentive Plan

     "Stock Option  Incentive  Plan" when  immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or
when the  applicable  Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of the PepsiCo
Group,  means the  "PepsiCo,  Inc.  1995 Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan" and any
predecessor plans. When immediately  preceded by "TRICON" or when the applicable
Hiring  Company or Prior Company is a member of the TRICON Group,  "Stock Option
Incentive  Plan" means the stock option  incentive  plan  established  by TRICON
pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (zz) Stock Purchase Plan

     "Stock Purchase Plan," when  immediately  preceded by "PepsiCo" or when the
applicable  Hiring  Company or Prior  Company is a member of the PepsiCo  Group,
means the PepsiCo  Capital Stock Purchase  Plan.  When  immediately  preceded by
"TRICON" or when the  applicable  Hiring Company or Prior Company is a member of
the TRICON Group,  "Stock  Purchase Plan" means the employee stock purchase plan
to be established by TRICON pursuant to Section 2.3.

     (aaa) Subsequent Asset Transfer

     "Subsequent Asset Transfer" is defined in Section 3.3(b)(2).

     (bbb) Subsidiary

     "Subsidiary"  of any Person  means any  corporation  or other  organization
whether  incorporated  or  unincorporated  of which at least a  majority  of the
securities  or interests  having by the terms thereof  ordinary  voting power to
elect at least a majority of the board of directors or others performing similar
functions with respect to such corporation or other  organization is directly or
indirectly  owned  or  controlled  by such  Person  or by any one or more of its
Subsidiaries,  or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries;  provided,
however,  that no Person that is not directly or indirectly  wholly owned by any
other Person shall be a Subsidiary of such other Person unless such other Person
controls, or has the right, power, or ability to control, that Person.

     (ccc) Transferred Individual

     "Transferred  Individual"  means any individual who, as of the Close of the
Distribution  Date: (1) is either then actively  employed by, or then on a leave
of absence from, a member of the TRICON  Group;  or (2) is neither then actively
employed by, nor then on a leave of absence  from, a member of the TRICON Group,
but (A) whose most recent  (through the Close of the  Distribution  Date) active
employment  with  PepsiCo or a past or present  affiliate of PepsiCo was with an
entity or a corporate division of the Restaurant  Businesses,  the Casual Dining
Businesses,  and the  predecessors  of any such  entities,  to the  extent  such
information  is  available,  and  who  has  not  had an  intervening  period  of
employment  covered by an  agreement  under which  assets and  liabilities  with
respect to the individual  were or are to be transferred  from a PepsiCo Pension
Plan, or (B) who otherwise is identified  pursuant to a methodology  approved by
PepsiCo and TRICON, which methodology shall be consistent with the intent of the
parties  that  former  employees  of PepsiCo or a past or present  affiliate  of
PepsiCo  will be aligned with the entity for which they most  recently  (through
the Close of the  Distribution  Date) worked and based upon the business of such
entity.  An alternate payee under a qualified  domestic  relations order (within
the meaning of Code ss. 414(p) and ERISA ss. 206(d)),  alternate recipient under
a  qualified  medical  child  support  order  (within  the  meaning of ERISA ss.
609(a)),  beneficiary  or covered  dependent,  in each case,  of an  employee or
former  employee  described  in (1) or (2)  above  shall  also be a  Transferred
Individual  with respect to that employee's or former  employee's  benefit under
the applicable Plans. Such an alternate payee, alternate recipient, beneficiary,
or covered dependent shall not otherwise be 


considered  a  Transferred  Individual  with  respect to his or her own benefits
under any  applicable  Plans  unless he or she is a  Transferred  Individual  by
virtue of either of the first two  sentences  of this  definition.  In addition,
PepsiCo, in its sole discretion,  may designate any other individuals,  or group
of individuals,  as Transferred Individuals.  An individual may be a Transferred
Individual pursuant to this definition regardless of whether such individual is,
as of the Distribution Date, alive,  actively employed,  on a temporary leave of
absence from active employment, on layoff,  terminated from employment,  retired
or on any other type of  employment  or  post-employment  status  relative  to a
PepsiCo  or TRICON  Plan,  and  regardless  of  whether,  as of the Close of the
Distribution Date, such individual is then receiving any benefits from a PepsiCo
or TRICON Plan.  Transferred  Individual  includes any  individual  who is on an
international assignment whether paid on a U.S. payroll or a payroll outside the
U.S. if such individual otherwise falls within any of the above categories.

     (ddd) Transition Individual

     "Transition Individual" means any individual who:

          (1) is a  Transferred  Individual  who  during the  Transition  Period
     becomes  an  employee  of  a  member  of  the  PepsiCo  Group,  without  an
     intervening  period of  employment,  as a result of  transfer  arranged  by
     PepsiCo and TRICON; or

          (2)  is an  employee  of a  member  of  the  PepsiCo  Group  as of the
     Distribution  Date (and is not a  Transferred  Individual)  who  during the
     Transition  Period  becomes an  employee  of a member of the TRICON  Group,
     without  an  intervening  period of  employment,  as a result of a transfer
     arranged by PepsiCo and TRICON; or

          (3) is a Transferred  Individual who during the Transition  Period (A)
     becomes an employee of a member of the PepsiCo Group,  and (B) subsequently
     becomes an employee of a member of the TRICON  Group,  in each case without
     an intervening  period of employment and as a result of a transfer arranged
     by PepsiCo and TRICON; or

          (4)  is an  employee  of a  member  of  the  PepsiCo  Group  as of the
     Distribution  Date (and is not a  Transferred  Individual)  who  during the
     Transition  Period (A) becomes an employee of a member of the TRICON Group,
     and (B) subsequently  becomes an employee of a member of the PepsiCo Group,
     in each case without an intervening period of employment and as a result of
     a transfer arranged by PepsiCo and TRICON.

          An alternate payee under a qualified domestic relations order, (within
     the meaning of Code ss. 414(p) and ERISA ss. 206(d)),  alternate  recipient
     under a qualified medical child support order, (within the meaning of ERISA
     ss.  609(a)),  beneficiary  or  covered  dependent,  in  each  case,  of an
     individual  described in clause (1),  (2),  (3), or (4) of this  definition
     shall also be a Transition  Individual  with  respect to that  individual's
     benefit under the  applicable  Plans.  Such an alternate  payee,  alternate
     recipient,  beneficiary,  and  covered  dependent  shall not  otherwise  be
     considered a Transition  Individual with respect to his or her own benefits
     under any applicable Plans, unless he or she is a Transition  Individual by
     virtue of clause (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this definition.

     (eee) Transition Period

     "Transition  Period"  means  the  period  beginning  Immediately  after the
Distribution Date and ending on December 31, 1998.


     (fff) TRICON Common Stock

     "TRICON  Common  Stock" has the meaning  given that term in the  Separation
Agreement.

     (ggg) TRICON Group

     "TRICON  Group"  has the  meaning  given  that term  under  the  Separation
Agreement.

1.2  REFERENCES

     Unless the context clearly indicates  otherwise,  reference to a particular
Article,  Section,  or subsection means the Article,  Section,  or subsection so
delineated in this Agreement.


                                     ARTICLE
                               GENERAL PRINCIPLES


2.1  ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES

     TRICON hereby assumes and agrees to pay, perform,  fulfill,  and discharge,
in accordance with their respective  terms, all of the following  (regardless of
when or where such Liabilities arose or arise or were or are incurred):  (i) all
Liabilities  to  or  relating  to  Transferred  Individuals  arising  out  of or
resulting  from  employment  by a member of the PepsiCo  Group  before  becoming
Transferred  Individuals  (including  Liabilities under PepsiCo Plans and TRICON
Plans); (ii) all other Liabilities to or relating to Transferred Individuals and
other employees or former  employees of a member of the TRICON Group,  and their
dependents  and  beneficiaries,  to the extent  relating  to,  arising out of or
resulting from future,  present or former employment with a member of the TRICON
Group (including  Liabilities  under PepsiCo Plans and TRICON Plans);  (iii) all
Liabilities  relating to,  arising out of, or resulting from any other actual or
alleged  employment  relationship  with the TRICON Group;  (iv) all  Liabilities
under any Individual Agreements relating to Transferred Individuals; and (v) all
other  Liabilities  relating to, arising out of, or resulting from  obligations,
liabilities,  and responsibilities  expressly assumed or retained by a member of
the TRICON Group, or a TRICON Plan pursuant to this Agreement. TRICON shall have
assumed all such Liabilities  described in this Agreement,  unless the Liability
is  explicitly  retained in writing by PepsiCo or excluded in writing by PepsiCo
from those being assumed by TRICON.

2.2  TRICON PARTICIPATION IN PEPSICO PLANS

     (a)  Participation  in  PepsiCo  Plans and  PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and
Welfare Plans

     Subject to the terms and conditions of this  Agreement,  each member of the
TRICON Group that is, as of the date of this Agreement,  a Participating Company
in any of the PepsiCo Plans or the PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare Plans
shall continue as such through the Close of the Distribution Date.  Effective as
of any date  before the  Distribution  Date,  a member of the  TRICON  Group not
described in the preceding  sentence may, at its request and with the consent of
PepsiCo  (which  shall not be  unreasonably  withheld),  become a  Participating
Company  in  any  or  all  of  the  PepsiCo  Plans  (applicable  to  Transferred
Individuals) or PepsiCo Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans.

     (b) PepsiCo's General Obligations as Plan Sponsor

     PepsiCo  shall  continue  through  the  Close of the  Distribution  Date to
administer,  or cause to be  administered,  in  accordance  with their terms and
applicable law, the PepsiCo Plans and the PepsiCo  Restaurant Health and Welfare
Plans; provided,  however, that effective September 1, 1997 through the Close of
the  Distribution   Date  (unless  PepsiCo  directs   otherwise,   in  its  sole
discretion),  TRICON shall be responsible,  subject to the direction and control
of PepsiCo, for administering, or causing to be administered, in accordance with
their terms and applicable law, the PepsiCo  Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans
and such  portion of the PepsiCo  Plans as PepsiCo  shall  determine in its sole
discretion.  Through the Close of the Distribution  Date, PepsiCo shall have the
sole  discretion  and  authority to interpret  the PepsiCo Plans and the PepsiCo
Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans as set forth therein.


     (c) TRICON's General Obligations as Participating Company

     TRICON shall perform with respect to its participation in the PepsiCo Plans
and  PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare  Plans,  and shall cause each other
member of the TRICON Group that is a  Participating  Company in any PepsiCo Plan
or  PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health  and  Welfare  Plan to  perform  the duties of a
Participating  Company  as set  forth in such  Plans or any  procedures  adopted
pursuant thereto,  including:  (i) assisting in the administration of claims, to
the extent requested by the claims  administrator  or plan  administrator of the
applicable  PepsiCo Plan or PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare  Plan;  (ii)
cooperating  fully with  PepsiCo Plan or PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare
Plan  auditors,  benefit  personnel and benefit  vendors;  (iii)  preserving the
confidentiality of all financial  arrangements  PepsiCo has or may have with any
vendors, claims administrators,  trustees or any other entity or individual with
whom  PepsiCo has entered  into an  agreement  relating to the PepsiCo  Plans or
PepsiCo   Restaurant   Health  and  Welfare  Plans;   and  (iv)  preserving  the
confidentiality of participant health information  (including health information
in  relation  to leaves  under the  Family  and  Medical  Leave Act of 1993,  as
amended).

     (d) Termination of Participating Company Status

     Effective as of the Close of the Distribution  Date,  TRICON and each other
member of the TRICON  Group  shall  cease to be a  Participating  Company in the
PepsiCo Plans.

2.3  ESTABLISHMENT OF TRICON PLANS

     Effective   Immediately  after  the  Distribution  Date,  unless  otherwise
provided,  TRICON shall have adopted, or shall have caused to be adopted, before
the Close of the Distribution  Date, the TRICON Pension Plan, the TRICON Pension
Equalization  Plan,  the TRICON Savings Plan,  the TRICON  SharePower  Plan, the
TRICON Stock Purchase Plan, and the TRICON Executive Programs for the benefit of
Transferred  Individuals and other current,  future, and former employees of the
TRICON Group.  Before the Close of the Distribution  Date, to the extent that it
has not already occurred,  TRICON shall have adopted, or shall have caused to be
adopted,  effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, the TRICON Health
and Welfare Plans listed in the second part of Appendix B to this Agreement, and
it shall  substitute  itself or another  member of the TRICON  Group as the plan
sponsor and administrator of the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans. In the context
of TRICON's  adoption of the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans,  TRICON shall also
take such steps as may be necessary  to adopt and shall  assume all  Liabilities
with respect to the PepsiCo  Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans and those plans
and programs  under the PepsiCo  Health and Welfare  Plans in which  Transferred
Individuals  participate as of the Close of the Distribution  Date. TRICON shall
convert such PepsiCo  Restaurant Health and Welfare Plan, along with any PepsiCo
Health and Welfare Plans in which Transferred  Individuals participate as of the
Close of the  Distribution  Date, to TRICON  Health and Welfare Plans  effective
Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date.  Except for the TRICON  Stock Option
Incentive Plan, the TRICON Long-Term Incentive Plan, the TRICON SharePower Plan,
and the TRICON Stock  Purchase  Plan , the  foregoing  TRICON Plans as in effect
Immediately after the Distribution Date shall be substantially  identical in all
Material  Features  to the  corresponding  PepsiCo  Plans as in effect as of the
Close of the  Distribution  Date.  The TRICON Stock Option  Incentive  Plan, the
TRICON  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan, the TRICON  SharePower  Plan, and the TRICON
Stock  Purchase  Plan shall be adopted by TRICON and approved by PepsiCo as sole
shareholder  of TRICON,  before the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  to become
effective  Immediately  after the Distribution  Date;  provided,  however,  that
during the two year period following the Distribution,  TRICON shall in no event
authorize  or grant a number of  options  under the  terms of the  TRICON  Stock
Option  Incentive  Plan,  the  TRICON  Long-Term   Incentive  Plan,  the  TRICON
SharePower  Plan or any other TRICON stock option plan or program,  which in the
aggregate  would  


result in PepsiCo not having  "control" of TRICON within the meaning of Sections
355(a)(l)(A) and 368(c) of the Code at the time of the  Distribution.  The exact
aggregate  number  of  options  which may be  authorized  or  granted  by TRICON
pursuant to the  preceding  sentence  shall be determined by PepsiCo in its sole
discretion and shall be  communicated to TRICON in writing no later than October
6, 1997. Commencing on November 3, 1997, TRICON shall provide to PepsiCo, on the
first  business  day of every  month,  a  certificate  specifying  the number of
options authorized or granted during the preceding month.

2.4  TERMS OF PARTICIPATION BY TRANSFERRED INDIVIDUALS

     The TRICON Plans shall be, with respect to Transferred Individuals,  in all
respects  the  successors  in  interest  to,  shall  recognize  all  rights  and
entitlements  as of the  Close of the  Distribution  Date  under,  and shall not
provide benefits that duplicate benefits provided by, the corresponding  PepsiCo
Plans for such  Transferred  Individuals.  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  agree on
methods and procedures,  including  amending the respective  Plan documents,  to
prevent  Transferred  Individuals from receiving  duplicative  benefits from the
PepsiCo Plans and the TRICON  Plans.  TRICON shall not permit any TRICON Plan to
commence benefit payments to any Transferred Individual until it receives notice
from  PepsiCo  regarding  the date on which  payments  under  the  corresponding
PepsiCo Plan shall cease. With respect to Transferred  Individuals,  each TRICON
Plan  shall  provide  that  all  service,   all  compensation,   and  all  other
benefit-affecting determinations that, as of the Close of the Distribution Date,
were  recognized  under the  corresponding  PepsiCo Plan  (including the PepsiCo
Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans) (for periods  immediately  before the Close
of the Distribution  Date) shall, as of Immediately after the Distribution Date,
receive full recognition,  credit,  and validity and be taken into account under
such TRICON Plan to the same extent as if such items  occurred under such TRICON
Plan,  except to the extent that  duplication  of  benefits  would  result.  The
provisions  of this  Agreement  for the transfer of assets from  certain  trusts
relating to PepsiCo Plans (including Foreign Plans) to the corresponding  trusts
relating  to  TRICON  Plans  (including   Foreign  Plans)  are  based  upon  the
understanding  of the  parties  that  each such  TRICON  Plan  will  assume  all
Liabilities  of the  corresponding  PepsiCo  Plan to or relating to  Transferred
Individuals,   as  provided  for  herein.  If  there  are  any  legal  or  other
authoritative  reasons that any such Liabilities are not effectively  assumed by
the appropriate  TRICON Plan, then the amount of assets transferred to the trust
relating  to such  TRICON  Plan from the  trust  relating  to the  corresponding
PepsiCo Plan shall be recomputed,  ab initio, as set forth below but taking into
account the retention of such Liabilities by such PepsiCo Plan, and assets shall
be  transferred  by the trust relating to such TRICON Plan to the trust relating
to such  PepsiCo  Plan so as to place each such trust in the  position  it would
have been in, had the initial asset  transfer been made in accordance  with such
recomputed amount of assets.

2.5  RESTRICTION ON PLAN AMENDMENTS

     During the Transition  Period,  neither  PepsiCo nor TRICON shall adopt any
amendment,  or allow any  amendment  to be adopted,  to any of their  respective
Pension  Plans or Savings  Plans that,  in the opinion of counsel  acceptable to
both PepsiCo and TRICON,  would violate Code ss.  411(d)(6) or that would create
an optional form of benefit subject to Code ss. 411(d)(6). During the Transition
Period, TRICON shall not change any investment option available under the TRICON
Savings Plan as of Immediately after the Distribution Date.


                                     ARTICLE
                             DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS


3.1  ESTABLISHMENT OF MIRROR PENSION TRUSTS

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution Date, TRICON shall establish,
or cause to be  established,  the TRICON  Master  Trust which shall be qualified
under Code ss.  401(a),  exempt  from  taxation  under Code ss.  501(a)(1),  and
forming part of the TRICON Pension Plan and the Pizza Hut Pension Plan.

3.2  PIZZA HUT PENSION PLANS

     TRICON shall continue to be responsible for all Liabilities relating to the
Pizza Hut Pension  Plan.  Effective no later than the Close of the  Distribution
Date,  TRICON shall substitute  itself or another member of the TRICON Group for
PepsiCo as the plan sponsor and administrator of the Pizza Hut Pension Plan.

3.3  ASSUMPTION OF PENSION PLAN AND PENSION  EQUALIZATION  PLAN  LIABILITIES AND
     ALLOCATION OF INTERESTS IN THE PEPSICO PENSION TRUST

     (a) Assumption of Liabilities by TRICON Pension Plan

     Immediately  after the Distribution  Date all Liabilities to or relating to
Transferred  Individuals  under the PepsiCo Pension Plan and the PepsiCo Pension
Equalization  Plan shall cease to be Liabilities of the PepsiCo Pension Plan and
the PepsiCo Pension  Equalization  Plan, as applicable,  and shall be assumed in
full and in all  respects  by the TRICON  Pension  Plan and the  TRICON  Pension
Equalization Plan, respectively.

     (b) Asset Allocations and Transfers

          (1) Calculation of Pension Plan Asset Allocation

               (A) As soon as  practicable  after the Close of the  Distribution
          Date,  PepsiCo shall cause to be calculated  the 414(l)(1)  Amount for
          the PepsiCo  Pension Plan and the TRICON  Pension Plan as of the Close
          of the  Distribution  Date. The  assumptions  used in determining  the
          414(l)(1) Amount for each Pension Plan shall be as follows:

                    (i) As if each plan were  terminating as of the Close of the
               Distribution  Date and with 100% of  participants  who are active
               employees,  employees  on leave of absence,  or former  employees
               with rights to a future  deferred vested pension assumed to elect
               a lump  sum  distribution  of the  value of the  pension  benefit
               accrued as of the Close of the Distribution Date.

                    (ii) For purposes of calculating the lump sum present value,
               mortality rates shall be based on the applicable  mortality table
               under Code ss. 417(e)(3)(A)(ii)(I) as specified in Rev. Rul. 95-6
               and interest  calculated  based on the annual rate of interest on
               30-year  Treasury  securities for the second month  preceding the
               month of the Close of the Distribution Date.


                    (iii) For retired participants or former employees receiving
               benefits as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date, the lump sum
               present value of the form of benefit  currently  elected shall be
               valued in the same  manner and using the same  assumptions  as in
               (i) and (ii) above.  For active  participants who are eligible to
               retire as of the  Close of the  Distribution  Date,  the lump sum
               benefit  shall be based on the  accrued  benefit  payable  at the
               current age reflecting  appropriate  early retirement  reductions
               under the plan. For all other participants, the lump sum value is
               the present  value of the accrued  benefit  commencing  at normal
               retirement  age. Early  retirement  subsidies shall be considered
               only for those participants who are retired or eligible to retire
               as of the Close of the Distribution Date.

          (B) If the aggregate amount of the assets of the PepsiCo Pension Plan,
     determined as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date, is not less than the
     sum of the  414(l)(1)  Amounts for the PepsiCo  Pension Plan and the TRICON
     Pension Plan  determined  in  accordance  with (A) above,  then such assets
     shall be allocated  between the PepsiCo Pension Plan and the TRICON Pension
     Plan in proportion to the 414(l)(1) Amounts of each plan.

          (C) If the aggregate amount of the assets of the PepsiCo Pension Plan,
     determined as of the Close of the Distribution Date is less than the sum of
     the 414(l)(1)  Amounts for the PepsiCo  Pension Plan and the TRICON Pension
     Plan, then such assets shall be allocated  between the PepsiCo Pension Plan
     and the TRICON Pension Plan  proportionately  to each priority  category as
     specified  under ERISA ss.  4044,  using the  assumptions  specified in (A)
     above.

     (2) Transfer of Assets to TRICON Pension Trusts

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, PepsiCo shall cause to
be  transferred  from the PepsiCo  Master  Trust to the TRICON  Master  Trust an
initial amount of assets in cash ("the Initial Asset  Transfer").  The amount of
the Initial Asset  Transfer  shall be an estimate,  determined by PepsiCo in its
sole  discretion,  of the cash required by the TRICON Pension Plan and Pizza Hut
Pension  Plan to make  payment of benefits  and  appropriate  expenses  from the
TRICON  Master Trust in  accordance  with the plans from  Immediately  after the
Distribution  Date to the time of the Bulk Asset Transfer,  described  below. In
the event that the Initial Asset Transfer  provides  insufficient  cash for this
purpose and upon TRICON's  written  request  therefor,  PepsiCo will cause to be
transferred other amounts of assets in cash ("Subsequent  Asset Transfer"),  but
only to the extent required to make cash payments as described above.

     As soon as practicable after the calculation of each plan's interest in the
Master Trust pursuant to Section  3.3(b)(1),  but in no event before PepsiCo (or
its authorized  representative)  determines that the calculation and the data on
which it is based are acceptably  complete,  accurate,  and consistent,  PepsiCo
will cause the appropriate  amount of assets to be transferred  from the PepsiCo
Master Trust to the TRICON Master Trust (the "Bulk Asset Transfer").  The amount
of assets to be  transferred  in the Bulk Asset  Transfer  shall be equal to the
aggregate of interests of the TRICON Pension Plan determined pursuant to Section
3.3(b)(1) and the Pizza Hut Pension Plan,  adjusted by PepsiCo as of the date of
the Bulk Asset Transfer to the extent necessary or appropriate to reasonably and
appropriately reflect additional pension contributions,  actual investment gains
and losses experienced in the PepsiCo Master Trust, benefit payments,  expenses,
the Initial  Asset  Transfer,  Subsequent  Asset  Transfers,  data  corrections,
enhancements,   and   computational   refinements  from  Immediately  after  the
Distribution Date through the date of the actual asset transfer of such assets.


     The specific assets to be transferred  from the PepsiCo Master Trust to the
TRICON  Master  Trust in the Bulk Asset  Transfer  shall  represent a reasonable
cross-section  of the asset classes in the PepsiCo Master Trust  consistent with
the  objective of enabling  TRICON to implement  an  investment  program for the
TRICON Master Trust,  but in no event shall PepsiCo or the PepsiCo  Master Trust
be  required  to  incur  unreasonable   transaction  costs  in  the  process  of
transferring assets and subsequently  re-balancing the investment portfolio held
by the PepsiCo Master Trust. Furthermore,  PepsiCo shall not transfer any shares
of PepsiCo or TRICON stock or any interests in group annuity  contracts  held by
the PepsiCo Master Trust unless specifically requested by TRICON in writing, and
PepsiCo shall not be required to transfer any specific asset, any portion of any
specific  fund or investment  manager  account,  or any specific  portion of any
specific asset,  fund or investment  manager account.  In transferring  specific
assets,  PepsiCo  makes  no  representation  as to  the  appropriateness  of the
resulting asset allocation or investment performance resulting from the specific
assets  transferred.  By accepting the assets  transferred,  TRICON acknowledges
that it and not PepsiCo is serving as the  fiduciary for the TRICON Master Trust
with respect to the determination and actual transfer of assets from the PepsiCo
Master Trust and that, acting as fiduciary for the TRICON Pension Plan and Pizza
Hut Pension  Plan,  TRICON  further  acknowledges  that it is able to change the
asset allocation as it deems  appropriate at any time. Once the assets have been
transferred  to and received by the TRICON Master Trust,  such event shall fully
and finally  foreclose  any issue or matter of any nature  whatsoever by TRICON,
the TRICON Master Trust, the TRICON Pension Plan, and the Pizza Hut Pension Plan
or any other trust(s) related to such plans against PepsiCo,  the PepsiCo Master
Trust,  the PepsiCo  Pension Plan, or any other  trust(s)  related to such plans
relating to the  condition,  identity,  or value of such assets and TRICON shall
fully indemnify PepsiCo,  its employees,  officers,  directors,  and the PepsiCo
Pension Plan and the PepsiCo Master Trust  regarding any Liability or regulatory
issue of any nature with respect thereto.

3.4  ACTION IN EVENT OF PBGC INTERVENTION

     Notwithstanding  any provision of this  Agreement to the  contrary,  in the
event that at any time the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") asserts
that the Distribution may provide  justification for PBGC to seek termination of
the PepsiCo  Pension Plan  pursuant to ERISA ss. 4042 or otherwise  asserts that
the transaction may increase  unreasonably the long-run loss to the PBGC (within
the meaning of ERISA ss.  4042(a)(4))  with respect to the PepsiCo Pension Plan,
PepsiCo may, in its sole discretion (i) retain all assets and  Liabilities  with
respect to Transferred  Individuals and Transition Individuals under the PepsiCo
Pension Plan and/or the PepsiCo Pension  Equalization Plan and require TRICON to
provide equivalent  benefits under plans maintained by it with an offset for any
benefits  continued  to be provided  under the PepsiCo  Pension  Plan and/or the
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan, (ii) enter into negotiations with the PBGC to
resolve  these issues and, upon  satisfactorily  resolving  such issues,  TRICON
shall  fully  comply with the terms of this  Article;  or (iii) reach such other
agreement  as may be  satisfactory  to  PepsiCo  and  TRICON.  In any  case  and
notwithstanding  any other  provision of this  Agreement,  TRICON shall be fully
responsible and liable for any obligation to, agreement with, or undertaking (on
behalf of or  relating  to the TRICON  Pension  Plan) to the PBGC and shall hold
PepsiCo free from and fully indemnify it against any such obligation, agreement,
or  undertaking.  For  purposes of this  Section  3.4,  reference to the PepsiCo
Pension or the TRICON  Pension Plan, as  applicable,  shall mean and include the
Pizza Hut Pension  Plan.  If PepsiCo  retains any  liability of any  Transferred
Individual  under the PepsiCo  Pension  Equalization  Plan,  TRICON  shall fully
reimburse  PepsiCo  for the full cash  costs of,  including  any  administrative
expenses relating to, any such liability.


                                     ARTICLE
                           DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS


4.1  SAVINGS PLAN

     (a) Savings Plan Trust

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution Date, TRICON shall establish,
or cause to be established, a trust qualified under Code ss. 401(a), exempt from
taxation under Code ss. 501(a)(1), and forming part of the TRICON Savings Plan.

     (b) Assumption of Liabilities and Transfer of Assets

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date: (i) the TRICON Savings
Plan shall assume and be solely  responsible for all Liabilities  (including any
amounts  attributable  to additional  contributions  with respect to Transferred
Individuals  required pursuant to negotiations with the Internal Revenue Service
that  began  before  the  Distribution  Date)  to  or  relating  to  Transferred
Individuals  under the PepsiCo  Savings Plan; (ii) the TRICON Savings Plan shall
assume  and be solely  responsible  for all  ongoing  rights of or  relating  to
Transferred  Individuals for future  participation  (including the right to make
contributions  through payroll deductions) in the TRICON Savings Plan; and (iii)
PepsiCo  shall  cause the  accounts  of the  Transferred  Individuals  under the
PepsiCo  Savings Plan which are held by its related trust as of the Close of the
Distribution  Date to be  transferred to the TRICON Savings Plan and its related
trust, and TRICON shall cause such  transferred  accounts to be accepted by such
plan and trust. Effective no later than Immediately after the Distribution Date,
TRICON shall use its  reasonable  best efforts to enter into such  agreements to
accomplish  such  assumptions  and transfers,  the  maintenance of the necessary
participant  records,  the appointment of State Street Bank and Trust Company as
initial  trustee  under the TRICON  Savings  Plan,  and the  engagement of State
Street Bank and Trust Company as initial  recordkeeper under such plans. As soon
as practicable  after the Close of the Distribution  Date, assets related to the
accounts of all Transferred  Individuals  shall be transferred  from the PepsiCo
Savings  Plan to the  TRICON  Savings  Plan in cash  or in  kind,  at  PepsiCo's
discretion,  and to the extent  practicable,  shall be  invested  in  comparable
investment  options in the TRICON  Savings Plan as such  accounts  were invested
immediately before the Close of the Distribution Date.

     (c) Non-Employer Stock Funds

     Effective  Immediately  after the Distribution  Date, a TRICON common stock
fund shall be added as an investment  option to the PepsiCo Savings Plan and the
TRICON  Savings Plan shall  provide for both a PepsiCo  capital stock fund and a
TRICON common stock fund as investment options.  The TRICON common stock fund in
the  PepsiCo  Savings  Plan and the  PepsiCo  capital  stock  fund in the TRICON
Savings Plan are each referred to as a "Non-Employer Stock Fund" with respect to
the applicable plan. Each Non-Employer  Stock Fund shall be maintained under the
respective Plan at least through December 31, 1998. The PepsiCo Savings Plan and
the TRICON Savings Plan shall each provide that, after the Distribution Date, no
new  contributions  may be invested in, and no amounts may be  transferred  from
other  investment  options to the  Non-Employer  Stock Fund under the respective
Plan. The PepsiCo Savings Plan shall provide that no earnings or dividends under
its  Non-Employer  Stock Fund may be  reinvested  in TRICON Common Stock and the
TRICON  Savings  Plan shall  provide  that no  earnings or  dividends  under its
Non-Employer Stock Fund may be reinvested in PepsiCo Capital Stock.


     (d) Miscellaneous Funds

     In the event that PepsiCo determines that it is not feasible or appropriate
to transfer in-kind the assets of a particular  investment fund from the PepsiCo
Savings Plan to the TRICON Savings Plan, then the value of the assets, as of the
close of business on the Distribution  Date (plus earnings  attributable to such
amount  from  the  Distribution  Date  to  the  date  the  assets  are  actually
transferred)  shall be transferred in cash to the TRICON Savings Plan and TRICON
shall  invest such cash in its plan and trust in the same manner and  proportion
as it was invested in the PepsiCo  Savings Plan or otherwise at the direction of
affected participant.

4.2  ESOP

     At  PepsiCo's  election  and as soon as  reasonably  practicable  after the
Distribution  Date  with  respect  to  Transferred  Individuals  and  Transition
Individuals,   after  transfer  to  TRICON,  the  accounts  of  all  Transferred
Individuals and Transition Individuals (described in Section 1.1(ddd)(2) or (3))
shall either be (i) retained under the PepsiCo Employee Stock Ownership Plan and
such  individuals  shall not be  considered to have  terminated  service for any
purposes under the Plan, or (ii) shall be transferred to the TRICON Savings Plan
and  invested in the PepsiCo or TRICON  stock funds,  as  applicable,  under the
TRICON  Savings  Plan  or,  if such is not  possible,  in such  fund or funds as
otherwise  determined  by TRICON or, at TRICON's  election,  as directed by each
such  Transferred  Individual or  Transition  Individual,  respectively.  If the
accounts of  Transferred  Individuals  and Transition  Individuals  are retained
under the PepsiCo Employee Stock Ownership Plan, TRICON will undertake to inform
PepsiCo of any change in  employment  status or any relevant  information  about
TRICON employees who have balances in the PepsiCo Employee Stock Ownership Plan.


                                     ARTICLE
                            HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS


5.1  ASSUMPTION OF HEALTH AND WELFARE PLAN LIABILITIES

     Immediately after the Distribution Date, all Liabilities for or relating to
Transferred  Individuals  under the PepsiCo  Health and Welfare  Plans,  PepsiCo
Restaurant  Health and Welfare  Plans or TRICON  Health and Welfare  Plans shall
cease to be  Liabilities of PepsiCo or the PepsiCo Plans and shall be assumed by
TRICON  and  the  TRICON  Health  and  Welfare  Plans.  Thus,  TRICON  shall  be
responsible  for  all  Liabilities  that  pertain  to  Transferred  Individuals,
including  all  reported  claims that are unpaid,  all incurred but not reported
claims as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  and all future  claims  that
pertain to Transferred  Individuals  under the PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plans,
PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare  Plans and the TRICON Health and Welfare
Plans.  TRICON  shall  be  required  to make  all  payments  due or  payable  to
Transferred Individuals under the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans for the period
beginning  Immediately after the Distribution  Date,  including incurred but not
reported claims.  All treatments which have been  pre-certified for or are being
provided to a Transferred  Individual as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date
shall continue to be provided without  interruption under the appropriate TRICON
Health and Welfare  Plan and TRICON  shall  continue to be  responsible  for all
Liabilities  relating  to,  arising  out of, or  resulting  from  such  on-going
treatments  as  of  the  Close  of  the  Distribution   Date.  Unless  otherwise
specifically  set  forth in  writing,  TRICON  shall not be  entitled  to assets
associated with any PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plan,  PepsiCo  Restaurant Health
and Welfare Plan, or TRICON Health and Welfare Plan  including,  but not limited
to,  premium  stabilization  reserves,  contract  or plan  surpluses,  any other
reserve,  prior  inter-company  assessments  or premiums,  any prior  per-capita
inter-company  rate payments,  reimbursement for charges or premiums  previously
collected  or any other  payment  or  credit,  of any  nature  whatsoever,  from
PepsiCo,  any trust  associated with any plan or program or from any third-party
vendor.

5.2  ESTABLISHMENT OF MIRROR LTD VEBA

     On or before the Distribution Date, TRICON shall establish,  or cause to be
established,  the  TRICON  LTD  VEBA,  for  the  purpose  of  funding  long-term
disability  benefits under the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans. Such trust shall
constitute   a  voluntary   employees'   beneficiary   association   under  Code
ss.501(c)(9)  which is exempt from the  imposition  of federal  income tax under
Code ss.501(a).

5.3  LTD VEBA ASSET TRANSFERS

     This  Section 5.3 shall  govern the transfer of assets from the PepsiCo LTD
VEBA to the  TRICON  LTD  VEBA.  As soon as  practicable  after the Close of the
Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo shall determine the aggregate  present value, as of
the Close of the  Distribution  Date, of the future benefit  obligations of each
PepsiCo  Plan  funded  by the  PepsiCo  LTD VEBA  (separately  with  respect  to
Transferred  Individuals who are eligible to receive  benefits under the PepsiCo
LTD VEBA as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  and with  respect to other
individuals  who are not  Transferred  Individuals  who are  eligible  for  such
benefits).  The future  benefit  obligations  will be  determined by the actuary
appointed by PepsiCo, for purposes of providing necessary actuarial services for
the PepsiCo  LTD VEBA,  in the  following  manner:  the  disabled  life  reserve
(exclusive of the incurred but not reported ("IBNR") reserve) will be calculated
as of the  Close  of the  Distribution  Date  using  September  1,  1997  census
information  requested from the third-party  administrator  (Aetna). The reserve
for the lives that will be transferred to TRICON will be calculated  separately.
The actuarial  basis for the disabled life reserve will be calculated  using the
following  assumptions:  interest  at 7%  compounded  annually;  termination  of
disability  based on rates of 


recovery and mortality developed from the 1975 study of the Society of Actuaries
of  experience  under Group LTD policies for durations of  disablement  of three
years or less. For durations of  disablement  in excess of three years,  assumed
terminations  are based on a modification of the 1952 Disability  Study. As soon
as practicable after such determination is made, there shall be transferred from
the PepsiCo LTD VEBA to the TRICON LTD VEBA an amount having a fair market value
on the date of transfer equal to the amount calculated as [(A)/(B)] x (C), where
"(A)" is the disabled life reserve as of the Close of the Distribution  Date for
the lives that will be  transferred  to TRICON  using  September  1, 1997 census
information;  "(B)" is the disabled life reserve for all lives under the PepsiCo
LTD VEBA as of the Close of the Distribution Date using September 1, 1997 census
information; and "(C)" is the market value of the PepsiCo LTD VEBA assets on the
date of  transfer.  PepsiCo  shall direct the trustee of the PepsiCo LTD VEBA to
transfer  cash to the  trustee of the  TRICON LTD VEBA in the amount  determined
above and TRICON  shall direct the trustee of the TRICON LTD VEBA to accept such
cash transfer.

5.4  CONTRIBUTIONS TO, INVESTMENTS OF, AND DISTRIBUTIONS FROM VEBAS

     Before  the  Close  of the  Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo  shall  have  sole
authority  to direct the  trustee of the  PepsiCo  LTD VEBA,  and any other VEBA
sponsored by PepsiCo, as to the timing and manner of any contributions,  if any,
to the PepsiCo LTD VEBA, and any other VEBA sponsored by PepsiCo, the investment
of any trust assets,  and the distributions  and/or transfers of trust assets to
PepsiCo,  TRICON, any Participating Company in the trusts, any paying agent, any
successor trustee, or any other Person.

5.5  VENDOR CONTRACTS

     (a) ASO Contracts,  Group Insurance Policies, HMO Agreements and Letters of
Understanding

          (1)  Before  the  Distribution   Date,  PepsiCo  shall,  in  its  sole
     discretion, take such steps as are necessary under each ASO Contract, Group
     Insurance   Policy,   HMO  Agreement  and  letters  of  understanding   and
     arrangements in existence as of the date of this Agreement to permit TRICON
     to  participate  in the terms and  conditions of such ASO  Contract,  Group
     Insurance   Policy,   HMO  Agreement  or  letters  of   understanding   and
     arrangements  from Immediately after the Distribution Date through December
     31, 1998. PepsiCo, in its sole discretion, may cause one or more of its ASO
     Contracts,   Group  Insurance  Policies,  HMO  Agreements  and  letters  of
     understanding  and arrangements into which PepsiCo enters after the date of
     this  Agreement,  but before the Close of the  Distribution  Date, to allow
     TRICON  to  participate  in  the  terms  and  conditions  thereof.  Nothing
     contained in this Section  5.5(a) shall  preclude  PepsiCo from choosing to
     enter into ASO Contracts, Group Insurance Policies, HMO Agreements or other
     letters of understandings and arrangements with new or different vendors.

          (2)  PepsiCo  shall have the right to  determine,  and shall  promptly
     notify TRICON of, the manner in which TRICON's  participation  in the terms
     and conditions of ASO Contracts,  Group Insurance Policies, HMO Agreements,
     letters of  understanding  and  arrangements  as set forth  above  shall be
     effectuated.  The permissible ways in which TRICON's  participation  may be
     effectuated  include, but are not limited to, automatically making TRICON a
     party to the ASO  Contracts,  Group  Insurance  Policies,  HMO Agreement or
     letters of understanding  and arrangements or obligating the third party to
     enter  into  a  separate  ASO  Contract,  Group  Insurance  Policy,  or HMO
     Agreement  or  letters  of  understanding   and  arrangements  with  TRICON
     providing (to the extent practicable and agreeable to such third party) for
     the same terms and conditions as are contained in the ASO Contracts,  Group
     Insurance  Policies,  HMO  Agreements  and  letters  of  understanding  and
     arrangements to which PepsiCo is a party.  Such terms and conditions  shall
     include the financial and termination  provisions,  performance  standards,
     methodology,  auditing policies,  quality measures,  reporting requirements
     and target claims. TRICON 


hereby authorizes PepsiCo to act on its behalf to extend to TRICON the terms and
conditions of the ASO Contracts,  Group Insurance  Policies,  HMO Agreements and
letters of  understanding  and  arrangements.  TRICON shall fully cooperate with
PepsiCo in such  efforts,  and, for periods  through  December 31, 1998,  TRICON
shall not perform any act,  including  discussing any  alternative  arrangements
with any third party, that would prejudice PepsiCo's efforts.

     (b) Effect of Change in Rates

     PepsiCo and TRICON shall use their reasonable best efforts to cause each of
the insurance  companies,  HMOs,  paid provider  organizations  and  third-party
administrators  providing  services  and benefits  under the PepsiCo  Health and
Welfare  Plans and the TRICON  Health and Welfare  Plans to maintain the premium
and/or  administrative  rates based on the aggregate  number of  participants in
both the PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plans,  after the Close of the  Distribution
Date,  and the TRICON  Health and  Welfare  Plans  through  December  31,  1998,
separately rated or adjusted for the demographics,  experience or other relevant
factors related to the covered participants of PepsiCo and TRICON, respectively.
To the extent they are not successful in such efforts,  PepsiCo and TRICON shall
each bear the  revised  premium or  administrative  rates for health and welfare
benefits attributable to the individuals covered by their respective Plans.

     (c)  Management  of  the  ASO  Contracts,  Group  Insurance  Policies,  HMO
Agreements, Letters of Understanding and other Vendor Contracts

     From September 1, 1997 through the Close of the Distribution  Date,  TRICON
shall be responsible,  subject to the direction and control of PepsiCo,  for the
management of the existing contractual and other arrangements  pertaining to the
administration of the PepsiCo  Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans.  Immediately
after the Distribution  Date, TRICON shall be responsible for the management and
control of the ASO contracts, Group Insurance Policies, HMO Agreements,  letters
of  understanding,  arrangements and other vendor contracts and relationships to
the extent such  contracts,  policies and agreements  apply to the TRICON Health
and Welfare  Plans.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  nothing  contained in this
Section 5.5(c) shall permit TRICON to direct any insurance carrier,  third-party
vendor or claims  administrator  with  respect to any  contractual  arrangement,
policy or agreement  pertaining to or impacting  any PepsiCo  Health and Welfare
Plan.

5.6  PEPSICO SALARY CONTINUATION

     PepsiCo shall be  responsible  for the  administration  of claims  incurred
under the PepsiCo Salary Continuation Plan by Transferred Individuals, and other
employees  and  former  employees  of the TRICON  Group  before the Close of the
Distribution Date; provided,  however,  that effective September 1, 1997 (unless
PepsiCo directs otherwise in its sole discretion),  TRICON shall be responsible,
subject to the direction and control of PepsiCo, for administering or causing to
be  administered  in accordance  with its terms and  applicable  law, the TRICON
Salary  Continuation Plan. Any determination made or settlements entered into by
PepsiCo with respect to such claims  shall be final and binding.  PepsiCo  shall
transfer to TRICON,  effective  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date,  and
TRICON shall assume  responsibility for (i) administering all claims incurred by
Transferred  Individuals and other employees and former  employees of the TRICON
Group before the Close of the Distribution Date that are administered by PepsiCo
as of the  Close  of  the  Distribution  Date,  and  (ii)  all  Liabilities  for
Transferred  Individuals as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date, in the same
manner,  and  using  the  same  methods  and  procedures,  as  PepsiCo  used  in
determining and paying such claims.  As of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,
TRICON  shall  have  sole   discretionary   authority  to  make  any   necessary
determinations with respect to such claims,  including entering into settlements
with  respect to such  claims,  and shall be solely  


responsible  for any  costs,  liabilities  or  related  expenses  of any  nature
whatsoever related to such claims, payments or obligations.

5.7  POSTRETIREMENT HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE BENEFITS

     As soon as practicable after the Distribution  Date, TRICON shall determine
all Transferred  Individuals who are, to the best knowledge of TRICON,  eligible
to  receive  retiree  medical  coverage  and/or  postretirement  life  insurance
coverage under the PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plans or PepsiCo Restaurant Health
and  Welfare  Plans as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  and the type of
retiree medical coverage and the level of life insurance coverage for which they
are eligible, as applicable.  With respect to Transferred  Individuals receiving
postretirement  health benefits or postretirement  life insurance benefits under
the PepsiCo  Health and Welfare Plans or PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare
Plans  as of the  Close of the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  agrees  to  provide
substantially the same  postretirement  health and postretirement life insurance
benefits Immediately after the Distribution Date. To the extent a claim or cause
of  action  asserted  by or on  behalf  of  any  Transferred  Individual  or any
Liabilities  arise at any time following the Close of the  Distribution  Date in
connection  with such  postretirement  health or  postretirement  life insurance
benefits, TRICON shall be solely responsible for such Liabilities and shall hold
each member of the PepsiCo Group and their  respective  directors,  officers and
employees and the PepsiCo Plans harmless for all such Liabilities.

5.8  COBRA AND HIPAA

     For periods prior to September 1, 1997,  PepsiCo shall be  responsible  for
administering  compliance with the continuation coverage requirements for "group
health plans" under Title X of the  Consolidated  Omnibus Budget  Reconciliation
Act of 1985,  as  amended,  and the  portability  requirements  under the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 with respect to Transferred
Individuals  and other  employees  and former  employees of the TRICON Group and
beneficiaries  and dependents  thereof and the TRICON Group shall be responsible
for filing all necessary  employee  change notices with respect to these persons
in  accordance  with  applicable  PepsiCo  policies  and  procedures.  Effective
September  1,  1997 and  thereafter,  TRICON  shall be  solely  responsible  for
administering  compliance  with  such  health  care  continuation  coverage  and
portability requirements with respect to these persons.

5.9  LEAVE OF ABSENCE PROGRAMS

     TRICON shall be responsible  for the  administration  and compliance of all
leaves of absences and related  programs  (including  compliance with the Family
and  Medical  Leave  Act)  affecting  Transferred  Individuals  for  the  period
Immediately after the Closing Date.

5.10 PEPSICO WORKERS' COMPENSATION PROGRAM

     Notwithstanding  any other  provision of this  Agreement or the  Separation
Agreement,  effective  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON shall
assume  all  Liabilities  for  Transferred  Individuals  related  to any and all
workers'  compensation  matters  under  any  law of  any  state,  territory,  or
possession  of the U.S. or the  District of Columbia  and TRICON  shall be fully
responsible for the  administration  of all such claims.  If TRICON is unable to
assume any such Liability or the administration of any such claim because of the
operation of applicable  state law or for any other  reason,  TRICON shall fully
indemnify  PepsiCo  for  all  such  Liabilities,  including  the  costs  of  any
administration that TRICON has not been able to assume.


5.11 PEPSICO PRIVATE LINE EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

     Effective   Immediately  after  the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  shall  be
responsible for the TRICON Private Line Employee Assistance Program which is the
employee  assistance plan component of the TRICON  Employees Health Care Program
with respect to Transferred Individuals.

5.12 POST-DISTRIBUTION TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

     (a) Continuance of Elections, Co-Payments and Maximum Benefits

          (1)  TRICON  shall  cause  the  TRICON  Health  and  Welfare  Plans to
     recognize  and maintain all coverage  and  contribution  elections  made by
     Transferred  Individuals  under the PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare
     Plans in effect for the period  immediately  prior to the Distribution Date
     and shall apply such  elections  under the TRICON  Health and Welfare Plans
     for the remainder of the period or periods for which such  elections are by
     their terms applicable.

          (2)  TRICON  shall  cause  the  TRICON  Health  and  Welfare  Plans to
     recognize  and give  credit for (A) all  amounts  applied  to  deductibles,
     out-of-pocket  maximums,  and other applicable benefit coverage limits with
     respect  to  such  expenses   which  have  been  incurred  by   Transferred
     Individuals under the PepsiCo Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans (or other
     PepsiCo  Plans) for the  remainder  of the benefit  limit year in which the
     Distribution  occurs, and (B) all benefits paid to Transferred  Individuals
     under the PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare Plans,  (or other PepsiCo
     Plans) during and prior to the benefit limit year in which the Distribution
     occurs,  for purposes of  determining  when such persons have reached their
     lifetime maximum benefits under the TRICON Health and Welfare Plans.

          (3) Subject to Section 5.8, TRICON shall recognize and cover under the
     TRICON  Health and Welfare  Plans  through  December  31, 1998 all eligible
     populations  covered by the PepsiCo Health and Welfare Plans (pertaining to
     Transferred  Individuals)  and the  PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare
     Plans  on  the  Close  of  the  Distribution  Date  (determined  under  the
     applicable Plan documents),  including term and temporary employees and all
     categories of part-time  employees (which are fully and partially  eligible
     for employer contributions).

          (4) TRICON shall (A) provide coverage to Transferred Individuals under
     the TRICON  Health and Welfare Plans without the need to undergo a physical
     examination  or  otherwise  provide  evidence  of  insurability,   and  (B)
     recognize and maintain all  irrevocable  assignments  and elections made by
     Transferred  Individuals in connection  with their life insurance  coverage
     under the PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare Plans and any predecessor
     plans.

     (b) Administration

          (1) Coordination of Benefits for Spouses and Dependents

          Effective as of the first January 1 or change in family status (within
     the meaning of the Code and applicable regulations) that occurs Immediately
     after the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  shall  cause the TRICON  Health and
     Welfare Plans to permit  eligible  Transferred  Individuals  to cover their
     lawful  spouses as dependents if such lawful  spouses are active or retired
     PepsiCo  employees (but were not otherwise covered as a dependent under the
     PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare Plans or other PepsiCo Plans due to
     their  previous  status  as  both  employee  and  dependent  of  a  PepsiCo
     employee). As of the first January 1 or change in family status (within the
     meaning of the Code and  applicable  regulations)  that occurs  Immediately
     after the  Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo shall cause the PepsiCo  Health and
     Welfare Plans to permit  eligible  PepsiCo  Group  employees to cover their
     lawful spouses as


dependents if such lawful  spouses are active or retired TRICON  employees.  All
benefits provided under any such plans to a lawful spouse dependent of the other
company's employees shall be coordinated pursuant to the terms and conditions of
the applicable PepsiCo and TRICON Plans.

          (2) Health Care Financing Administration Data Match

          Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  shall  assume all
     Liabilities  relating to, arising out of or resulting from claims  verified
     by PepsiCo or TRICON under the Health Care  Financing  Administration  data
     match reports that relate to  Transferred  Individuals.  TRICON and PepsiCo
     shall share all  information  necessary  to verify  Health  Care  Financing
     Administration data match reports regarding Transferred Individuals. TRICON
     shall not change any employee  identification  numbers  assigned by PepsiCo
     without notifying PepsiCo of the change and the new Employee Identification
     Number.

     (c) Other  Post-Distribution  Transitional Rules 

          (1) PepsiCo  Reimbursement Plans

          To the extent any  Transferred  Individual  contributed  to an account
     under the TRICON Health Care  Reimbursement  Plan or PepsiCo Dependent Care
     Reimbursement  Plan during the calendar year that includes the Distribution
     Date,  effective as of the Close of the Distribution  Date, TRICON shall be
     solely responsible for the account balances of Transferred  Individuals for
     such  calendar  year under the TRICON  Health  Care  Reimbursement  Plan or
     TRICON Dependent Care Reimbursement Plan.

          (2) Health and Welfare Plans Subrogation Recovery

          If TRICON  recovers any amounts  through  subrogation or otherwise for
     claims  incurred by or reimbursed to employees and former  employees of the
     PepsiCo Group and their respective beneficiaries and dependents (other than
     Transferred Individuals), TRICON shall pay such amounts to PepsiCo.

5.13 APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 5 TO THE TRICON GROUP

     Any  reference in this Article 5 to "TRICON"  shall  include a reference to
another  member of the TRICON Group when and to the extent TRICON has caused the
other  member of the TRICON  Group to (a)  become a party to a vendor  contract,
group insurance contract, HMO agreement,  letter of understanding or arrangement
associated  with a TRICON  Health and Welfare  Plan,  (b) become a  self-insured
entity for the  purposes of one or more TRICON  Health and  Welfare  Plans,  (c)
assume all or a portion of the  Liabilities or  administrative  responsibilities
for  benefits  which  arose  before the Close of the  Distribution  Date under a
PepsiCo  Restaurant  Health and Welfare Plan and which were expressly assumed by
TRICON  pursuant to this  Agreement,  or (d) take any other  action,  extend any
coverage,  assume any other Liability or fulfill any other  responsibility  that
TRICON  would  otherwise  be required to take under the terms of this Article 5,
unless  it is  clear  from the  context  that the  particular  reference  is not
intended to include another member of the TRICON Group. In all such instances in
which a reference in this Article 5 to "TRICON"  includes a reference to another
member of the TRICON Group,  TRICON shall be responsible to PepsiCo for ensuring
that the other member of the TRICON Group complies with the applicable  terms of
this Agreement and the Transferred  Individuals  allocated to such member of the
TRICON Group shall have the same rights and  entitlements  to benefits under the
applicable TRICON Health and Welfare Plans that the Transferred Individual would
have had if he or she had instead been allocated to TRICON.


                                     ARTICLE
                               EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS


6.1  ASSUMPTION OF OBLIGATIONS

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, the TRICON Group shall
assume  and  be  solely  responsible  for  all  Liabilities  to or  relating  to
Transferred  Individuals under all PepsiCo Executive  Programs.  TRICON shall be
solely  responsible  for all such  Liabilities  notwithstanding  any  failure by
TRICON to complete its obligations under this Article 6.

6.2  SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS

     With  respect  to all  Awards  that  would  otherwise  be  payable  under a
Short-Term  Incentive Plan to Transferred  Individuals for the 1997  performance
year,  TRICON  shall be  responsible  for  determining  (a) the  extent to which
established  performance  criteria  have been met, and (b) the payment level for
each Transferred  Individual for the 1997 performance  year, and TRICON shall be
solely responsible for paying all such Awards. Nothing contained in this Section
6.2 shall  entitle  PepsiCo or TRICON to any  contributions  for any  Short-Term
Incentive Plan payment made by the other under this Section.

6.3  LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AND STOCK OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN

     PepsiCo  and TRICON  shall use their  reasonable  best  efforts to take all
actions  necessary or appropriate so that each  outstanding  Award granted under
any PepsiCo Long-Term Incentive Plan or PepsiCo Stock Option Incentive Plan held
by any Transferred  Individual shall be converted,  as set forth in this Section
6.3,  to an Award  under the TRICON  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan or TRICON  Stock
Option Incentive Plan, whichever is applicable, as provided below. References to
PepsiCo and its affiliates  under the PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive Plan and the
PepsiCo Stock Option  Incentive Plan shall be amended to refer to TRICON and its
affiliates.

     The treatment of  outstanding  Awards  described  below shall also apply to
Transferred   Individuals  who  are   compensated   under  a  payroll  which  is
administered outside the 50 United States, its territories and possessions,  and
the District of Columbia;  provided,  however,  if such treatment is not legally
permitted,  or results in adverse tax consequence for PepsiCo or the Transferred
Individual,  as  determined  by  PepsiCo  in its sole  discretion,  PepsiCo  may
determine in its sole discretion, a different treatment.

     (a) Transferred Individuals Who Are Active Employees of TRICON

          (1) Before 1996 Award Year Stock Options

          Effective Immediately after the Distribution Date, each Award or grant
     consisting  of an option based on or included in an award year before 1996,
     regardless of the date granted, that is outstanding under the PepsiCo Stock
     Option Incentive Plan or PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive Plan as of the Close
     of the Distribution  Date for Transferred  Individuals shall continue to be
     held as an option for PepsiCo  Capital Stock. At PepsiCo's  election,  such
     Award or grant shall either (i) remain, and recordkeeping accounts shall be
     maintained,  under the  PepsiCo  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan or  PepsiCo
     Long-Term Incentive Plan,  whichever is applicable,  after the Distribution
     Date and, at PepsiCo's further election,  TRICON shall be fully responsible
     for  administering  and  providing for the  recordkeeping  for such PepsiCo
     options under the PepsiCo Stock Option Incentive Plan or PepsiCo  Long-Term
     Incentive Plan in a manner  consistent  with  provisions of such plans,  or
     (ii) be held and treated, and recordkeeping accounts shall be maintained by
     TRICON,  under the TRICON Stock Option  Incentive Plan or TRICON  Long-
  

     Term Incentive Plan. As soon as practicable  after the  Distribution  Date,
     the number of options and the exercise  price for such options  which shall
     continue to be held as options for PepsiCo Capital Stock shall be adjusted,
     as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  by a Conversion  Formula.  The
     determination  of which  company shall be entitled to any tax deduction and
     any other treatment  related to any such tax deduction  (federal and state)
     with respect to the exercise of such PepsiCo stock options shall be made in
     accordance  with  applicable  provisions of the Tax  Separation  Agreement.
     TRICON shall be solely responsible for all recordkeeping,  plan maintenance
     and administrative costs and fees associated with such PepsiCo options.

          (2) 1996 or Later Award Year Stock Options

          Effective Immediately after the Distribution Date, each Award or grant
     consisting  of an option  based on or  included  in an award  year of 1996,
     regardless of the date of the grant, under the PepsiCo Long-Term  Incentive
     Plan or PepsiCo Stock Option  Incentive  Plan that is outstanding as of the
     Close of the Distribution  Date for all such Transferred  Individuals shall
     be converted to options for TRICON Common Stock under the TRICON  Long-Term
     Incentive  Plan  or  TRICON  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan,  whichever  is
     applicable,  and shall be  transferred  to the  recordkeeper  of the TRICON
     Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  or  TRICON  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan,  as
     appropriate. As soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the number
     of options and the exercise price for such options converted to options for
     TRICON  Common  Stock  shall  be  determined,   as  of  the  Close  of  the
     Distribution Date, in accordance with a Conversion Formula.  Such converted
     TRICON stock option  grants shall  continue to vest and become  exercisable
     under the TRICON Stock Option Incentive Plan or TRICON Long-Term  Incentive
     Plan in accordance  with the terms of the original  grant under the PepsiCo
     Stock Option Incentive Plan or PepsiCo Long-Term Incentive Plan,  whichever
     is  applicable.  TRICON shall be the obligor with respect to such  options.
     TRICON shall be solely responsible for all stock option grants and payments
     under the TRICON Stock Option Incentive Plan or TRICON Long-Term  Incentive
     Plan,  with respect to, but not limited to,  recordkeeping,  administrative
     costs and fees, plan maintenance, option exercise and related tax filings.

          (3) Performance Units

               (i) 1994 Award Year

               PepsiCo  shall  cause  each  Award  under the  PepsiCo  Long-Term
          Incentive Plan consisting of PepsiCo  performance unit awards based on
          the 1994  award  year that is (A)  outstanding  as of the Close of the
          Distribution Date, and (B) is held by a Transferred Individual who, as
          of the  Distribution  Date,  is an active  employee of, or on leave of
          absence from, the TRICON Group,  to remain an outstanding  Award under
          the PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan under its  original  terms and
          conditions;  provided, however, that (i) Transferred Individuals shall
          not  be  deemed  to  have  terminated  employment  under  the  PepsiCo
          Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  until  such time as they  have  terminated
          employment  from  TRICON,  and (ii)  PepsiCo ,in its sole  discretion,
          shall  determine the  administration  and related  recordkeeping  with
          respect to Awards for Transferred  Individuals,  including transfer of
          all   related    recordkeeping    and    administration   to   TRICON.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining whether any
          performance  unit targets have been  attained for Awards from the 1994
          award year,  performance  shall be measured based on the  consolidated
          performance   of  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  for  the  1994   through  1997
          performance  period.  TRICON agrees to furnish  PepsiCo with such data
          and   information  as  may  be  necessary  for  PepsiCo  to  determine
          consolidated performance results for the applicable performance period
          and PepsiCo,  in its sole discretion,  shall determine  whether and to
          what extent performance criteria or targets have been attained.


               (ii) 1996 Award Year

               To the extent a  Transferred  Individual  has an Award  under the
          PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive Plan  consisting of PepsiCo  performance
          units from the 1996 award year or later that is (A)  outstanding as of
          the  Close of the  Distribution  Date,  and (B) held by a  Transferred
          Individual who, as of the Distribution Date, is an active employee of,
          or on leave of absence from, the TRICON Group, TRICON agrees to assume
          such  Award  under the  TRICON  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  effective
          Immediately  after  the  Distribution   Date.  The  number  of  TRICON
          performance  units shall be adjusted as  determined  by PepsiCo in its
          sole  discretion.  Each such Award  assumed by TRICON shall  otherwise
          have  the  same  terms  and  conditions  as  were  applicable  to  the
          corresponding  PepsiCo Award as of the Close of the Distribution Date,
          except that references to PepsiCo and its affiliates  shall be amended
          to refer to TRICON and its  affiliates.  For  purposes of  determining
          whether a performance unit target has been attained for the 1996 award
          year and any  subsequent  year  Awards,  TRICON  shall be  required to
          measure its  performance  period based solely on TRICON's  performance
          and PepsiCo shall have no responsibility,  financial or otherwise,  to
          Transferred  Individuals for these 1996 or later Awards. To the extent
          any Award of performance units has been assumed by TRICON,  any shares
          distributable  by reason of such Awards shall be in the form of TRICON
          Common  Stock.  TRICON  shall  be  solely  responsible  for  all  such
          Liabilities  notwithstanding  any  failure by TRICON to  complete  its
          obligations under this Article 6.

     (b) Transferred Individuals Who Are Not Active Employees of TRICON

     Each outstanding Award under the PepsiCo Long-Term  Incentive Plan and each
grant  under  the  PepsiCo  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan  that  is  held  by a
Transferred  Individual who, as of the Close of the Distribution Date, is not an
active  employee  of,  or on leave of  absence  from and  expected  to return to
employment with, the TRICON Group shall remain outstanding Immediately after the
Distribution  Date in accordance with its terms as applicable as of the Close of
the  Distribution  Date,  subject to such  adjustments  as may be  applicable to
outstanding  Awards held by  individuals  who remain active  employees of, or on
leave of absence from, the PepsiCo Group after the Distribution Date.

6.4  DEFERRAL PROGRAMS

     (a) PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program

          (1) Transferred Individuals Who Are Active Employees of TRICON

          Immediately after the Distribution Date, the liability with respect to
     the balance of any  Transferred  Individual in an account under the PepsiCo
     Executive Income Deferral Program as of the Close of the Distribution  Date
     shall be  transferred  to the TRICON  Executive  Income  Deferral  Program.
     TRICON  agrees to  maintain  and  administer  the TRICON  Executive  Income
     Deferral  Program  (1)  so as to  continue  all  elections  by  Transferred
     Individuals under the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program, and (2) in
     a manner that will ensure that as of the Close of  Distribution  Date,  the
     investment choices will be the same;  provided , however,  that TRICON may,
     in its sole discretion amend, modify or terminate  investment  alternatives
     after the Distribution  Date. Account balances invested in whole or in part
     in PepsiCo phantom shares as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date, shall
     be converted to  investments  in phantom  shares of PepsiCo and TRICON in a
     manner  consistent  with the  treatment  of  employer  securities  from the
     PepsiCo Savings Plan to the TRICON Savings Plan, as determined in PepsiCo's
     sole discretion.


          (2) Transferred Individuals Who Are Not Active Employees of TRICON

          The  liability  with  respect  to  the  balance  of  any   Transferred
     Individual who, as of the Close of the Distribution  Date, is not an active
     employee  of or on  leave  of  absence  from  and  expected  to  return  to
     employment  with,  the  TRICON  Group,  in an  account  under  the  PepsiCo
     Executive Income Deferral Program as of the Close of the Distribution  Date
     shall remain an obligation of PepsiCo  under the PepsiCo  Executive  Income
     Deferral Program.

     (b) PepsiCo Performance Share Unit Deferral Program

     Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date, any  obligations or Liabilities
with respect to the balance of any  Transferred  Individual  in an account under
the  PepsiCo  Performance  Share  Unit  Deferral  Program as of the Close of the
Distribution Date shall be transferred to and assumed by the TRICON  Performance
Share Unit Deferral Program.

     TRICON  agrees to  maintain  and  continue  all  elections  by  Transferred
Individuals under the PepsiCo  Performance  Share Unit Deferral Program,  and to
provide,  as of the Close of the Distribution  Date, the same investment choices
as provided by this Program.;  provided, however, that deferrals credited to the
phantom stock  investment  account shall be converted to  investments in phantom
shares of  PepsiCo  and  TRICON in a manner  consistent  with the  treatment  of
employer  securities in the PepsiCo Savings Plan and the TRICON Savings Plan, as
determined in PepsiCo's  sole  discretion.  After the Close of the  Distribution
Date, TRICON shall have the right to amend or modify such investment options.

     (c) PepsiCo Option Gains Deferral Program

     Effective as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date,  any  obligations  or
Liabilities with respect to the balance of any Transferred  Individual under the
PepsiCo  Option Gains  Deferral  Program shall be  transferred to and assumed by
TRICON. TRICON agrees to maintain and administer the current deferrals under the
PepsiCo Option Gains Deferral Program, as of the Close of the Distribution Date,
so as to maintain and continue all elections by  Transferred  Individuals  under
the PepsiCo Option Gains Deferral Program;  provided,  however, that Transferred
Individuals  shall not be permitted to defer any gains by reason of the exercise
of any  option  after  the Close of the  Distribution  Date  under  the  PepsiCo
Long-Term Incentive Plan and Transferred  Individuals shall not be credited with
any phantom PepsiCo stock, stock units, or dividend equivalents under the TRICON
Option Gains Deferral Program following the Close of the Distribution Date.

6.5  RESTAURANT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

     Effective  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  shall  have
established  the TRICON  Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation  Plan and shall have
assumed  all  Liabilities  under  the  Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation  Plan.
Effective  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  shall cause such
TRICON Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan to have the same investment options
and phase-out of investment  features as TRICON will apply to the TRICON Savings
Plan.  PepsiCo  shall not transfer any assets to TRICON in  connection  with the
Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan.

6.6  EXECUTIVE LOAN PROGRAM

     Effective  Immediately  after the Distribution  Date,  TRICON shall assume,
accept the  assignment of, and be solely  responsible  for all loans extended to
Transferred  Individuals under the PepsiCo Executive Loan Program. TRICON agrees
to execute such  documents as may be necessary to effect the  assignment  of any
outstanding  loans  and any  related  security  for such  loans  and  agrees  to
guarantee all 


such loan repayments to the applicable  lender and to hold PepsiCo  harmless for
any amounts due and owing on such loans with respect to Transferred Individuals.

6.7  STOCK OPTION INCENTIVE PLAN RECORDKEEPING ACCOUNTS

     PepsiCo  and TRICON  shall make their  reasonable  best  efforts to provide
accurate,  timely information with respect to stock options granted  Transferred
Individuals  under the PepsiCo Stock Option Incentive Plan and PepsiCo Long-Term
Incentive Plan and the TRICON Stock Option  Incentive Plan and TRICON  Long-Term
Incentive Plan. Whichever of PepsiCo or TRICON controls,  and is responsible for
providing,  the  information  to a  recordkeeper,  may take  such  action  as is
necessary to effectuate a correction of any erroneous or inaccurate  information
provided to the  recordkeepers  of the TRICON Stock Option Incentive Plan or the
TRICON  Long-Term  Incentive Plan and the PepsiCo Stock Option Incentive Plan or
the PepsiCo Long-Term Incentive Plan, respectively. On or after the Close of the
Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo  shall be under no  obligation  to accept  any data
correction  with respect to any TRICON  employee's  eligibility for stock option
grants.  TRICON agrees that in the event that any stock option is incorrectly or
erroneously  exercised  under the PepsiCo  Stock  Option  Incentive  Plan or the
PepsiCo Long-Term Incentive Plan, due to the untimely or inaccurate transmission
of data to the  recordkeeper  of the PepsiCo Stock Option  Incentive Plan or the
PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan,  TRICON  shall  indemnify  PepsiCo and hold
PepsiCo and its  directors,  officers,  employees and the Plans harmless for any
Liabilities  arising  as a result  of such  transaction,  including  reimbursing
PepsiCo for amounts paid to any individual by reason of the improper exercise of
an option.

     TRICON shall be  responsible  for the integrity of any data or  information
that it provides to the  recordkeeper of the PepsiCo Stock Option Incentive Plan
or the PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan.  TRICON agrees to provide to PepsiCo
unlimited  access  to  records  in  its  possession  which  may be  relevant  to
eligibility,  vesting,  exercise or other  aspects of the PepsiCo  Stock  Option
Incentive  Plan or the  PepsiCo  Long-Term  Incentive  Plan with  respect to any
Transferred Individual or Transition Individual.

     TRICON shall provide or cause to be provided all such information as may be
reasonably necessary or required by PepsiCo, in its sole discretion,  to prepare
any financial returns,  records or reports and shall provide such information on
a timely basis sufficiently far in advance to permit the orderly preparation and
filing of such financial returns, records and reports.






                                     ARTICLE
                             MISCELLANEOUS BENEFITS


7.1  SHAREPOWER PLAN

     (a) Treatment of Outstanding Grants Under PepsiCo SharePower Plan

     Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, all outstanding vested
stock  option  grants under the PepsiCo  SharePower  Plan as of the Close of the
Distribution  Date of all Transferred  Individuals  shall continue to be held as
options for PepsiCo Capital Stock and, at PepsiCo's  election,  shall either (1)
remain,  and  recordkeeping  accounts  shall be  maintained,  under the  PepsiCo
SharePower Plan after the Distribution  Date and, at PepsiCo's further election,
TRICON  shall be fully  responsible  for  administering  and  providing  for the
recordkeeping  for such PepsiCo  options under the PepsiCo  SharePower Plan in a
manner consistent with provisions of such plan, or (2) be held and treated,  and
recordkeeping accounts shall be maintained, under the TRICON SharePower Plan. As
soon as practicable  after the Distribution  Date, the number of options and the
exercise  price for such options which shall  continue to be held as options for
PepsiCo  Capital  Stock shall be adjusted,  as of the Close of the  Distribution
Date,  by a Conversion  Formula.  The  determination  of which  company shall be
entitled to any tax  deduction and any other  treatment  related to any such tax
deduction (federal and state) with respect to the exercise of such PepsiCo stock
options  shall  be made in  accordance  with  applicable  provisions  of the Tax
Separation  Agreement.  Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, all
outstanding  nonvested stock option grants under the PepsiCo  SharePower Plan as
of the Close of the Distribution Date of all such Transferred  Individuals shall
be converted to options for TRICON Common Stock under the TRICON SharePower Plan
and shall be transferred to the recordkeeper of the TRICON  SharePower Plan. The
number of  options  and the  exercise  price for such  TRICON  options  shall be
determined  in  accordance   with  the  Conversion   Formula.   Such  converted,
transferred  TRICON  stock  option  grants  shall  continue  to vest and  become
exercisable  under the TRICON  SharePower  Plan in accordance  with the terms in
effect as of the date of the original grant under the PepsiCo  SharePower  Plan.
TRICON shall be the obligor with respect to such options. TRICON shall be solely
responsible  for all  aspects  of the  stock  option  grants  under  the  TRICON
SharePower Plan, including,  but not limited to,  recordkeeping,  administrative
costs and fees, plan maintenance, option exercise and related tax filings.

     The foregoing  shall apply to Transferred  Individuals  who are compensated
under a  payroll  which  is  administered  outside  the 50  United  States,  its
territories and possessions, and the District of Columbia; provided, however, if
such treatment is not legally  permitted,  or results in adverse tax consequence
for PepsiCo or the Transferred Individual,  as determined by PepsiCo in its sole
discretion, PepsiCo may determine in its sole discretion, a different treatment.

     (b) Recordkeeping Accounts

     PepsiCo  and TRICON  shall make their  reasonable  best  efforts to provide
accurate,  timely information with respect to stock options granted  Transferred
Individuals  under the PepsiCo  SharePower Plan.  Whichever of PepsiCo or TRICON
controls,  and is responsible for providing,  the information to a recordkeeper,
may take such action as is necessary to effectuate a correction of any erroneous
or inaccurate information provided to the recordkeepers of the TRICON SharePower
Plan or the PepsiCo SharePower Plan, respectively.  On or after the Close of the
Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo  shall be under no  obligation  to accept  any data
correction  with respect to any TRICON  employee's  eligibility for stock option
grants.  TRICON agrees that in the event that any stock option is incorrectly or
erroneously  exercised under the PepsiCo SharePower Plan, due to the untimely or
inaccurate  transmission  of data to 


the  recordkeeper,  TRICON  shall  indemnify  PepsiCo  and hold  PepsiCo and its
directors,  officers,  employees  and the  Plans  harmless  for any  Liabilities
arising  as a result of such  transaction,  including  reimbursing  PepsiCo  for
amounts paid to any individual by reason of the improper exercise of an option.

     TRICON shall be  responsible  for the integrity of any data or  information
that it  provides  to the  recordkeeper.  TRICON  agrees to  provide  to PepsiCo
unlimited  access  to  records  in  its  possession  which  may be  relevant  to
eligibility,  vesting,  exercise or other aspects of the PepsiCo SharePower Plan
with respect to any Transferred Individual or Transition Individual.

     TRICON shall provide or cause to be provided all such information as may be
reasonably necessary or required by PepsiCo, in its sole discretion,  to prepare
any financial returns,  records or reports and shall provide such information on
a timely basis sufficiently far in advance to permit the orderly preparation and
filing of such financial returns, records and reports.

7.2  STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     (a) Transfer of PepsiCo Capital Stock

     With respect to all Transferred  Individuals who have beneficial  ownership
of PepsiCo  Capital Stock in the PepsiCo Stock Purchase Plan, as of the Close of
the  Distribution  Date,  PepsiCo  shall create  individual  accounts  under the
PepsiCo DRIP, and shall transfer such PepsiCo  Capital Stock to those  accounts,
as of the Close of the Distribution Date or as soon as practicable thereafter.

     (b) Transfer of TRICON Common Stock

     With respect to all Transferred Individuals who become beneficial owners of
TRICON Common Stock  received under the PepsiCo Stock Purchase Plan, as a result
of the Distribution,  TRICON shall create  individual  accounts under the TRICON
Stock  Purchase Plan for the purpose of receiving such TRICON Common Stock which
shall be transferred by PepsiCo,  as of the Close of the Distribution Date or as
soon as practicable thereafter.

     With respect to all employees or former  employees of the PepsiCo Group who
become beneficial owners of TRICON Common Stock received under the PepsiCo Stock
Purchase Plan, as a result of the  Distribution,  TRICON shall create individual
accounts  under the TRICON DRIP, for the purpose of receiving such TRICON Common
Stock which shall be transferred by PepsiCo, as of the Close of the Distribution
Date or as soon as practicable thereafter.






                                     ARTICLE
                           TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS


8.1  TRANSITION INDIVIDUALS/RECOGNITION OF SERVICE

     The parties  intend that, for the duration of the  Transition  Period,  the
respective  Plans of  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  mutually  recognize  service,
compensation,  and  other  benefit  determining  factors  (except  as  otherwise
provided  herein  with  respect to stock  options)  with  respect to  Transition
Individuals as if the Transition  Individual's  service recognized by either the
PepsiCo Group or the TRICON Group, respectively, had been performed entirely for
the Hiring  Company.  In this regard,  in determining a Transition  Individual's
service under the Hiring  Company's  Pension Plan,  Pension  Equalization  Plan,
Savings Plan,  SharePower Plan,  Stock Purchase Plan,  Health and Welfare Plans,
Executive Programs,  vacation and payroll practices, and other Plans, the Hiring
Company  shall  grant  full  credit  for  and   recognition  of  the  Transition
Individual's  service as such may be recognized  under the above mentioned plans
and programs.

8.2  PENSION PLANS

     (a) Assumption of Liabilities/Noncommencement of Pensions

     Effective as of the date a Transition Individual is transferred to a Hiring
Company:  (i) the  Hiring  Company's  Pension  Plan  shall  assume and be solely
responsible  for all  Liabilities  to or relating to the  Transition  Individual
under the Prior  Company's  Pension  Plan;  and (ii) no  pension  benefits  with
respect to the  Transition  Individual  from a Prior  Company's  Pension Plan or
Pension  Equalization  Plan shall  commence  while he or she is  employed by the
Hiring Company.

     (b) Asset/Liability Allocations and Transfers

     PepsiCo or TRICON,  as  applicable,  shall  arrange to transfer  assets and
liabilities  relating to the  benefit of each  Transition  Individual  under the
Prior Company  Pension Plan to the Hiring  Company  Pension Plan.  The liability
related to each such  Transition  Individual  shall be  calculated in accordance
with the same procedures and assumptions  described in Section 3.3(b)  effective
as of the date the Transition  Individual is transferred to the Hiring  Company.
The  transfer  of  assets  relating  to such  liability  shall  occur as soon as
practicable  after the  Transition  Period and a single net  aggregate  transfer
shall take place in accordance  with the  procedures  described in the following
paragraph.

     The amount of assets related to each Transition Individual shall be 100% of
the benefit liability calculated at the effective date of the transfer, adjusted
to  reflect  interest  at a rate  equal  to the  yield  on  the  Northern  Trust
Collective Short-Term Investment Fund from the effective date of the transfer to
the date the assets are transferred. The amount of assets so calculated shall be
aggregated for all Transition  Individuals  transferring  from PepsiCo to TRICON
and for all  Transition  Individuals  transferring  from TRICON to PepsiCo.  The
company with the greater  aggregate  amount of assets  shall  subtract the other
company's  aggregate  amount of assets,  and shall  arrange to transfer  the net
aggregate  amount so calculated  from its plan and trust to the other  company's
plan and trust.





 8.3      SAVINGS PLAN

     Upon a Transition  Individual's  transfer to a Hiring Company (i) the Prior
Company shall cause the accounts of the  Transition  Individual  under the Prior
Company's  Savings Plan which are held by their related trusts to be transferred
to the  corresponding  Hiring Company's Savings Plan and their related trusts as
soon as practicable after the Transition Individual's date of transfer; and (ii)
the Hiring  Company shall cause the  transferred  accounts to be accepted by its
plans and trusts;  and (iii) as soon as the assets  relating  to the  Transition
Individual's  account have been  transferred,  the Hiring Company's Savings Plan
shall assume and be solely responsible for all Liabilities to or relating to the
Transition  Individual  under the  corresponding  Prior Company's  Savings Plan.
Assets may be  transferred  from the Prior  Company  Savings  Plan to the Hiring
Company  Savings  Plan in cash or in kind and,  to the extent  practicable,  the
Transition  Individual's  accounts  shall be invested in  comparable  investment
options  under the  Hiring  Company  Savings  Plan as his or her  accounts  were
invested under the Prior Company Savings Plan immediately before the transfer.

8.4  HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS

     (a) Continuance of Elections, Co-Payments, and Maximum Benefits.

     Each of PepsiCo  and TRICON  shall  cause the Health and  Welfare  Plans of
itself  and  its   affiliates   to  recognize  and  maintain  all  coverage  and
contribution  elections  made by  Transition  Individuals  under the  Health and
Welfare Plans of the other company and its affiliates. Each Hiring Company shall
apply such elections under its Health and Welfare Plans for the remainder of the
period  or  periods  for  which  the  elections  are by their  terms  originally
applicable; provided, however that Hiring Company shall cause the Hiring Company
Health and Welfare  Plans to permit new coverage and  contribution  elections by
Transition  Individuals  in the same manner as such  elections were permitted by
PepsiCo for transfers between its divisions before the Distribution Date.

     PepsiCo  Health and Welfare Plans and TRICON Health and Welfare Plans shall
recognize and give credit for all amounts applied to deductibles,  out-of-pocket
maximums,  and other  applicable  benefit  coverage  limits with  respect to the
current year.

     (b) Reimbursement Plans

     To the extent any Transition  Individual  contributed to an account under a
Prior  Company's  Reimbursement  Plan during a calendar year falling  within the
Transition  Period,  the Prior Company shall  transfer to the Hiring Company (a)
the liability for such account  balances for that calendar year and (b) an equal
amount of cash to cover such liability.

8.5  EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS

     (a) Long-Term Incentive Plan and Stock Option Incentive Plan

     Effective as of the date a Transition Individual is transferred to a Hiring
Company,  the Transition  Individual  shall retain such stock  options,  phantom
shares, and performance units as were granted or awarded and in effect as of the
effective date of transfer under the Prior Company Plans. Service with the Prior
Company and the Hiring Company shall be mutually recognized under each company's
Long-Term Incentive Plan and Stock Option Incentive Plan.



     (b) Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan

     To the extent the Transition  Individual is a participant in the Restaurant
Deferred  Compensation  Plan, and is transferred from TRICON to PepsiCo,  TRICON
shall retain all Liabilities with regard to such Transition Individual under the
Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation  Plan. TRICON will amend its plan to preclude
distributions  on account of termination  of employment  prior to the Transition
Individual's termination of employment from PepsiCo or TRICON.

     (c) Deferral Programs

     Effective as of the date a Transition Individual is transferred to a Hiring
Company, the Transition Individual's account balance under the Deferral Programs
of the Prior Company shall remain on the books and records of the Prior Company.
The  Transition  Individual  shall not be entitled to a  distribution  from such
Deferral Programs at the Prior Company by reason of the transfer.

8.6  SHAREPOWER PLANS

     Effective as of the date a Transition Individual is transferred to a Hiring
Company,  the  Transition  Individual  shall  retain such stock  options as were
granted or awarded and in effect as of the effective  date of transfer under the
Prior  Company  SharePower  Plan.  Service with the Prior Company and the Hiring
Company shall be mutually recognized under each company's SharePower Plans.

8.7  STOCK PURCHASE PLANS

     As soon as  practicable  after a Transition  Individual is transferred to a
Hiring  Company,  the Prior  Company  shall  determine  whether  the  Transition
Individual  has a beneficial  interest in any stock  (PepsiCo  Capital  Stock or
TRICON  Common Stock,  as  applicable)  purchased  under the Prior Company Stock
Purchase  Plan.  In the event  that a  Transition  Individual  has a  beneficial
interest  in any  stock  (PepsiCo  Capital  Stock or  TRICON  Common  Stock,  as
applicable)  purchased  under the Prior Company Stock  Purchase  Plan, the Prior
Company shall transfer such stock to an individual account established under its
DRIP for the benefit of such Transition Individual

8.8  SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

     To the  extent a  Transition  Individual  is hired or  rehired  by a Hiring
Company during the Transition Period, the payment of any Award under the PepsiCo
Short-Term  Incentive Plan or TRICON Short-Term Incentive Plan or any comparable
or other  incentive  or award  program  shall be paid for in its entirety by the
entity  (PepsiCo  or TRICON) on whose  payroll  the  Transition  Individual  was
employed on December  31, 1997 (for the 1997  performance  year) or December 31,
1998  (for the  1998  performance  year)  and  shall be based on the  Transition
Individual's  period of  employment  with both the Hiring  Company and the Prior
Company  during the  performance  year in question.  Neither  PepsiCo nor TRICON
shall be entitled to any  reimbursement  from the other for payments  under this
Section.




                                     ARTICLE
                                    GENERAL


9.1  PAYMENT OF AND ACCOUNTING TREATMENT FOR EXPENSES AND BALANCE SHEET AMOUNTS

     (a) Expenses

     All expenses (and the accounting  treatment  related  thereto)  through the
Close of the  Distribution  Date  regarding  matters  addressed  herein shall be
handled and  administered  by PepsiCo and TRICON in accordance with past PepsiCo
accounting and financial practices and procedures pertaining to such matters. To
the extent  expenses  are unpaid as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date that
pertain to  Transferred  Individuals,  TRICON or any member of the TRICON Group,
TRICON  shall be solely  responsible  for such  payment,  without  regard to any
accounting  treatment to be accorded  such expense by PepsiCo or TRICON on their
respective books and records.  The accounting  treatment to be accorded all such
expenses,  whether  such  expenses  are  paid by  PepsiCo  or  TRICON,  shall be
determined by PepsiCo in its sole discretion.

     (b) Balance Sheet Amounts

     TRICON shall assume any balance sheet  liability for any Liability  assumed
by it  under  this  Agreement  as of the  Close  of  the  Distribution  Date  or
thereafter, with respect to any Transferred Individual or Transition Individual.
The  determination  of  any  balance  sheet  liability  as of the  Close  of the
Distribution  Date  shall  be  determined  by  PepsiCo  in its  sole  discretion
consistent with past accounting practices, consistently applied.

9.2  SHARING OF PARTICIPANT INFORMATION

     PepsiCo and TRICON shall share,  PepsiCo shall cause each applicable member
of the PepsiCo Group to share, and TRICON shall cause each applicable  member of
the  TRICON  Group to share,  with each  other and their  respective  agents and
vendors (without obtaining releases) all participant  information  necessary for
the efficient and accurate  administration  of each of the PepsiCo Plans and the
TRICON  Plans  during  the  Transition  Period.  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  and their
respective   authorized   agents   shall,   subject   to   applicable   laws  on
confidentiality,  be given  reasonable and timely access to, and may make copies
of, all information relating to the subjects of this Agreement in the custody of
the other party,  to the extent  necessary  for such  administration.  Until the
Close of the Distribution Date, all participant information shall be provided in
the manner and medium applicable to Participating Companies in the PepsiCo Plans
generally,  and thereafter until December 31, 1998, all participant  information
shall be  provided  in a manner  and  medium  that is  compatible  with the data
processing  systems  of  PepsiCo  as in effect of the Close of the  Distribution
Date, unless otherwise agreed to by PepsiCo and TRICON.

9.3  RESTRICTIONS  ON  EXTENSION  OF  OPTION  EXERCISE  PERIODS,   AMENDMENT  OR
     MODIFICATION OF OPTION TERMS AND CONDITIONS

     TRICON agrees that,  without the prior written consent of PepsiCo,  neither
TRICON nor any of its  affiliates  shall take any action to extend the  exercise
period of or to provide  for  additional  vesting  with  respect to any  PepsiCo
options for Transferred or Transition  Individuals,  including,  but not limited
to, providing such Transferred or Transition Individuals with leaves of absences
or special termination or 



severance arrangements.  Neither TRICON nor any of its affiliates may in any way
or for any purpose  modify,  alter,  amend or terminate  any terms or conditions
with respect to any PepsiCo option.

9.4  NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES

     For a period of two years from the Close of the Distribution  Date,  TRICON
and its affiliates will not,  without the prior written consent of PepsiCo,  and
PepsiCo  and its  affiliates  will not,  without  the prior  written  consent of
TRICON,  whether  directly  or  indirectly,  solicit  (in writing or orally) for
employment or other services, whether as an employee,  officer, director, agent,
consultant or independent contractor,  any person who or which is at the time of
such solicitation an employee, agent, representative, officer or director of the
other party;  provided,  however, that this covenant shall not apply in the case
of Persons who have left the employ of either  party  within a thirty day period
prior to being solicited by the other party.

9.5  REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE AND COMMUNICATIONS TO PARTICIPANTS

     While TRICON is a Participating  Company in the PepsiCo Plans, TRICON shall
take, and shall cause each other applicable  member of the TRICON Group to take,
all actions  necessary or  appropriate  to facilitate  the  distribution  of all
PepsiCo Plan-related communications and materials to employees, participants and
beneficiaries,  including  summary plan  descriptions  and related  summaries of
material   modification,   summary  annual  reports,   investment   information,
prospectuses, notices and enrollment material for the TRICON Plans. TRICON shall
assist,  and TRICON shall cause each other applicable member of the TRICON Group
to assist,  PepsiCo in complying with all reporting and disclosure  requirements
of ERISA for plan years ending on or before  December 31,  1997,  including  the
preparation of Form 5500 annual reports for the PepsiCo Plans, where applicable.

9.6  PLAN AUDITS

     (a) Audit Rights with Respect to the Allocation or Transfer of Plan Assets

     The allocation of Pension Plan assets and  liabilities  pursuant to Section
3.2 and the  transfer  of assets from  PepsiCo  VEBAs  pursuant to Section  5.2,
shall,  at the  election  of TRICON,  be audited on behalf of both  PepsiCo  and
TRICON by an actuarial  and benefit  consulting  firm  mutually  selected by the
parties.  The scope of such audit  shall be limited to the  accuracy of the data
and the accuracy of the computation  and adherence to the methodology  specified
in this  Agreement and except as set forth in the  penultimate  sentence of this
Section  9.6(a),  such audit shall not be binding on the parties.  The actuarial
and benefit consulting firm shall provide its report to both PepsiCo and TRICON.
No other audit shall be conducted  with respect to the transfer or allocation of
Plan assets and no issue of any nature  whatsoever  may be raised by TRICON once
the allocation has been effect.  . TRICON shall pay or shall be responsible  for
the payment of the full costs of such audit. To the extent such audit recommends
a change to the value of assets  allocated to a TRICON Plan of less than 5%, the
original  determination shall be binding on the parties and shall not be subject
to the dispute  resolution process provided under the Separation  Agreement.  To
the extent such audit  recommends  such a change of 5% or more,  any  unresolved
dispute between the parties as to whether and how to make any change in response
to such  recommendation  shall be  subject  to the  dispute  resolution  process
provided under the Separation Agreement.



     (b) Audit Rights With Respect to Information Provided

          (1)  Each  of  PepsiCo   and   TRICON,   and  their  duly   authorized
     representatives,  shall have the right to  conduct  audits at any time upon
     reasonable  prior  notice,  at  their  own  expense,  with  respect  to all
     information  provided  to it or to any Plan  recordkeeper  or  third  party
     administrator by the other party;  provided,  however,  that PepsiCo or its
     authorized  representatives may, at TRICON's expense, conduct audits at any
     time with respect to any information  related to PepsiCo options granted to
     Transferred Individuals or Transition Individuals. The party conducting the
     audit  shall have the sole  discretion  to  determine  the  procedures  and
     guidelines for conducting audits and the selection of audit representatives
     under this  Section  9.6(b);  provided,  that  audits  with  respect to the
     allocation or transfer of Plan assets and liabilities shall be subject only
     to Section  9.6(a).  The auditing party shall have the right to make copies
     of any records at its expense,  subject to the  confidentiality  provisions
     set forth in the Separation Agreement,  which are incorporated by reference
     herein.  The  party  being  audited  shall  provide  the  auditing  party's
     representatives  with reasonable access during normal business hours to its
     operations,  computer  systems and paper and electronic  files, and provide
     workspace to its representatives.  After any audit is completed,  the party
     being audited shall have the right to review a draft of the audit  findings
     and to comment on those findings in writing within five business days after
     receiving such draft.

          (2) The auditing  party's audit rights under this Section 9.6(b) shall
     include the right to audit,  or participate in an audit  facilitated by the
     party being audited,  of any Subsidiaries and affiliates of the party being
     audited and of any benefit  providers and third parties with whom the party
     being audited has a  relationship,  or agents of such party,  to the extent
     any  such  persons  are   affected  by  or  addressed  in  this   Agreement
     (collectively,  the  "Non-parties").  The party being audited  shall,  upon
     written  request from the auditing  party,  provide an  individual  (at the
     auditing  party's  expense)  to  supervise  any  audit of any such  benefit
     provider  or third  party.  The  auditing  party shall be  responsible  for
     supplying, at its expense,  additional personnel sufficient to complete the
     audit in a reasonably timely manner.

     (c) Audits Regarding Vendor Contracts

     From  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date through December 31, 1998,
PepsiCo  and  TRICON and their duly  authorized  representatives  shall have the
right to conduct joint audits with respect to any vendor  contracts  that relate
to both the PepsiCo  Health and Welfare  Plans and the TRICON Health and Welfare
Plans.   The  scope  of  such  audits   shall   encompass   the  review  of  all
correspondence,  account records,  claim forms, canceled drafts (unless retained
by the bank),  provider bills,  medical records  submitted with claims,  billing
corrections,  vendor's  internal  corrections  of previous  errors and any other
documents or instruments  relating to the services performed by the vendor under
the  applicable  vendor  contracts.  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  agree  on  the
performance standards,  audit methodology,  auditing policy and quality measures
and reporting  requirements relating to the audits described in this Section 9.6
and the manner in which costs  incurred in  connection  with such audits will be
shared.

9.7  BENEFICIARY DESIGNATIONS

     All beneficiary  designations  made by Transferred  Individuals for PepsiCo
Plans  shall  be  transferred  to and be in full  force  and  effect  under  the
corresponding  TRICON Plans until such beneficiary  designations are replaced or
revoked by the Transferred Individual who made the beneficiary designation.  All
beneficiary  designations made by Transition Individuals for Prior Company Plans
shall be transferred to and be in full force and effect under the  corresponding
Hiring Company Plans until such 



beneficiary  designations  are replaced or revoked by the Transition  Individual
who made the beneficiary designation.

9.8  REQUESTS FOR INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE RULINGS AND UNITED STATES  DEPARTMENT
     OF LABOR OPINIONS

     (a) Cooperation

     TRICON  shall  cooperate  fully with  PepsiCo on any issue  relating to the
transactions  contemplated  by this Agreement for which PepsiCo elects to seek a
determination  letter or private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service
or an advisory opinion from the United States Department of Labor. PepsiCo shall
cooperate  fully with  TRICON with  respect to any  request for a  determination
letter or private  letter ruling from the Internal  Revenue  Service or advisory
opinion from the United  States  Department  of Labor with respect to any of the
TRICON Plans relating to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     (b) Applications

     PepsiCo and TRICON shall make such  applications  to  regulatory  agencies,
including  the Internal  Revenue  Service and the United  States  Department  of
Labor,  as may be  necessary  to ensure  that any  transfers  of assets from the
PepsiCo  LTD VEBA to the TRICON LTD VEBA will  neither (i) result in any adverse
tax,  legal or  fiduciary  consequences  to PepsiCo and TRICON,  the PepsiCo LTD
VEBA, the TRICON LTD VEBA, any participant  therein or beneficiaries  thereof, ,
any successor  welfare benefit funds  established by or on behalf of TRICON,  or
the trustees of such trusts,  nor (ii)  contravene  any statute,  regulation  or
technical pronouncement issued by any regulatory agency. Before the Close of the
Distribution  Date,  TRICON shall prepare all forms required to obtain favorable
determination  letters  from the  Internal  Revenue  Service with respect to the
tax-exempt  status of the TRICON LTD VEBA. TRICON and PepsiCo agree to cooperate
with each other to fulfill any filing and/or  regulatory  reporting  obligations
with respect to such transfers.

9.9  FIDUCIARY AND RELATED MATTERS

     The parties  acknowledge  that PepsiCo will not be a fiduciary with respect
to the TRICON Plans and that TRICON will not be a fiduciary  with respect to the
PepsiCo Plans.  TRICON also  acknowledges that PepsiCo shall not be deemed to be
in violation of this Agreement if it fails to comply with any provisions  hereof
based  upon  its  good  faith  determination  that to do so  would  violate  any
applicable  fiduciary  duties  or  standards  of  conduct  under  ERISA or other
applicable  law.  Notwithstanding  any other  provision in this  Agreement,  the
Parties may take such actions as  necessary or  appropriate  to  effectuate  the
terms and provisions of this Agreement.

9.10 NON-TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT; NO THIRD-PARTY BENEFICIARIES

         No provision of this  Agreement or the  Separation  Agreement  shall be
construed to create any right, or accelerate entitlement, to any compensation or
benefit  whatsoever on the part of any  Transferred  Individual or other future,
present,  or former  employee of the PepsiCo Group or the TRICON Group under any
PepsiCo Plan or TRICON Plan or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing,  except as  expressly  provided  in this  Agreement:  (i) neither the
Distribution nor the termination of the Participating Company status of a member
of the TRICON  Group  shall cause any  employee to be deemed to have  incurred a
termination of employment  which entitles such individual to the commencement of
benefits under any of the PepsiCo Plans,  any of the TRICON Plans, or any of the
Individual  Agreements;  and (ii)  nothing  in this  Agreement  other than those
provisions  specifically set 



forth herein to the contrary shall preclude TRICON,  at any time after the Close
of the  Distribution  Date,  from  amending,  merging,  modifying,  terminating,
eliminating, reducing, or otherwise altering in any respect any TRICON Plan, any
benefit under any Plan or any trust, insurance policy or funding vehicle related
to any TRICON Plan.

9.11 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING

     To the extent any provision of this Agreement is contrary to the provisions
of any  applicable  collective  bargaining  agreement  to which  PepsiCo  or any
affiliate  of  PepsiCo  is a  party,  the  terms of such  collective  bargaining
agreement  shall  prevail.  Should any provisions of this Agreement be deemed to
relate to a topic  determined  by an  appropriate  authority  to be a  mandatory
subject of collective bargaining,  PepsiCo or TRICON may be obligated to bargain
with the  union  representing  affected  employees  concerning  those  subjects.
Neither  party  will  agree  to a  modification  of  any  applicable  collective
bargaining  agreement  without  the  consent of the other.  In the event a force
surplus affecting members of a bargaining unit in both the PepsiCo Group (on the
one hand) and the TRICON Group (on the other hand) directly results,  due to the
provisions  of  such  a  collective   bargaining   agreement,   in  an  employee
involuntarily  leaving the payroll of the party not declaring the surplus,  then
the party declaring the surplus shall bear the cost of any severance  payable to
such employee.

9.12 CONSENT OF THIRD PARTIES

     If any provision of this Agreement is dependent on the consent of any third
party (such as a vendor or a union) and such  consent is  withheld,  PepsiCo and
TRICON  shall use their  reasonable  best efforts to  implement  the  applicable
provisions of this Agreement to the full extent practicable. If any provision of
this Agreement  cannot be implemented  due to the failure of such third party to
consent,  PepsiCo and TRICON  shall  negotiate  in good faith to  implement  the
provision  in a  mutually  satisfactory  manner.  The  phrase  "reasonable  best
efforts"  as used in this  Agreement  shall  not be  construed  to  require  the
incurrence of any non-routine or unreasonable expense or liability or the waiver
of any right.

9.13 FOREIGN PLANS

     As soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement, PepsiCo and TRICON
shall  enter  into  an  agreement  regarding  the  treatment  of  Foreign  Plans
consistent with the principles set forth in Appendix C.

9.14 EFFECT IF DISTRIBUTION DOES NOT OCCUR

     If the Distribution  does not occur,  then all actions and events that are,
under  this  Agreement,  to be taken or occur  effective  as of the Close of the
Distribution  Date,  Immediately  after the  Distribution  Date, or otherwise in
connection  with the  Distribution,  shall  not be taken or occur  except to the
extent specifically agreed by TRICON and PepsiCo.

9.15 RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES

     Nothing in this  Agreement  shall be deemed or  construed by the parties or
any third party as creating the relationship of principal and agent, partnership
or joint venture  between the parties,  it being  understood  and agreed that no
provision contained herein, and no act of the parties, shall be deemed to create
any  relationship  between the  parties  other than the  relationship  set forth
herein.



9.16 AFFILIATES

     Each of  PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  cause  to be  performed,  and  hereby
guarantees the performance of, all actions, agreements and obligations set forth
in this  Agreement to be performed by members of the PepsiCo Group or members of
the TRICON Group, respectively, where relevant.

9.17 ARBITRATION

     Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this  Agreement,  or
the breach hereof,  shall be settled by arbitration in accordance  with the then
prevailing Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration  Association
(the "AAA") as such rules may be modified herein.

     An award  rendered  in  connection  with an  arbitration  pursuant  to this
Section  shall be final  and  binding  and  judgment  upon  such an award may be
entered and enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.

     The forum for  arbitration  under this Section  shall be agreed upon by the
Parties, or, failing such agreement, shall be New York, New York.

     Arbitration shall be conducted by a single  arbitrator  selected jointly by
PepsiCo and TRICON.  If within 30 days after a demand for  arbitration  is made,
PepsiCo and TRICON are unable to agree on a single arbitrator, three arbitrators
shall be appointed.  Within 30 days after such  inability to agree,  PepsiCo and
TRICON shall each select one  arbitrator  and those two  arbitrators  shall then
select a third arbitrator unaffiliated with either Party. In connection with the
selection of the third  arbitrator,  consideration  shall be give to familiarity
with employee  benefit plans and programs and related  matters and experience in
dispute resolution between parties, as a judge or otherwise.  If the arbitrators
selected by PepsiCo and TRICON cannot agree on the third arbitrator  within such
30 day period,  they shall discuss the  qualifications  of such third arbitrator
with the AAA prior to selection of such arbitrator,  which selection shall be in
accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the AAA.

     If an  arbitrator  cannot  continue to serve,  a successor to an arbitrator
selected by PepsiCo or TRICON, as the case may be, also shall be selected by the
same Party,  and a  successor  to the  neutral  arbitrator  shall be selected as
specified above. A full rehearing will be held only if the neutral arbitrator is
unable to continue to serve or if the remaining  arbitrators  unanimously  agree
that such a rehearing is appropriate.

     The  arbitrator  or  arbitrators  shall be guided,  but not  bound,  by the
Federal  Rules of Evidence  and by the  procedural  rules,  including  discovery
provisions,  of the Federal Rules of Civil  Procedure.  Any  discovery  shall be
limited  to  information  directly  relevant  to the  controversy  or  claim  in
arbitration.

9.18 INDEMNIFICATION

     Effective on the  Distribution  Date,  TRICON  agrees to indemnify and hold
harmless each member of the PepsiCo Group and each of their respective officers,
directors,  employees  and agents and the PepsiCo Plans from and against any and
all losses,  Liabilities,  claims, suits, damages, costs and expenses (including
without  limitation,  reasonable  attorneys'  fees  and  any  and  all  expenses
reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any pending
or seriously  threatened  litigation or claim)  arising out of or related in any
manner to  Transferred  Individuals  and  Transition  Individuals  described  in
Section  1.1(ddd)(2) and (3).  Similarly,  effective on the  Distribution  Date,
PepsiCo  agrees to indemnify  and hold  harmless each member of the TRICON Group
and each of their respective officers,  directors,  employees and agents and the
TRICON Plans from and against any and all losses,  Liabilities,  



claims,  suits,  damages,  costs and expenses  (including,  without,  limitation
reasonable  attorneys'  fees and any and all  expenses  reasonably  incurred  in
investigating,   preparing  or  defending   against  any  pending  or  seriously
threatened  litigation  or claim)  arising  out of or  related  in any manner to
Transferred   Individuals  and  Transition   Individuals  described  in  Section
1.1(ddd)(1) and (4).

     If any action is brought or any claim is made  against a Party or person in
respect of which  indemnity  may be sought  pursuant to this  Section  9.18 (the
"Indemnitee"),  the  Indemnitee  shall,  within  ten days  after the  receipt of
information  indicating that an action or claim is likely, notify in writing the
Party from whom  indemnification is sought (the "Indemnitor") of the institution
of the  action or the  making of the claim,  and the  Indemnitor  shall have the
right,  and at the  request of the  Indemnitee,  shall have the  obligation,  to
assume the defense of the action or claim,  including the employment of counsel.
If the  Indemnitor  assumes the defense of the action or claim,  the  Indemnitor
shall be  entitled  to settle  the  action or claim on behalf of the  Indemnitee
without the prior  written  consent of the  Indemnitee  unless  such  settlement
would,  in  addition  to the  payment of money,  materially  affect the  ongoing
business or employment of the Indemnitee.

     The Indemnitee shall have the right to employ its own counsel, but the fees
and  expenses of that  counsel  shall be the  responsibility  of the  Indemnitee
unless (i) the employment of that counsel shall have been  authorized in writing
by the  Indemnitor in connection  with the defense of the action or claim;  (ii)
the Indemnitor  shall not have employed counsel to have charge of the defense of
such action or claim; or (iii) such Indemnitee  shall have reasonably  concluded
that  there  may be  defenses  available  to it  which  are  different  from  or
additional to those  available to the  Indemnitor  (in which case the Indemnitor
shall not have the right to direct any different  defense of the action or claim
on behalf of the Indemnitee).  The Indemnitee shall, in any event, be kept fully
informed  of the  defense  of any such  action  or claim.  Except  as  expressly
provided  above,  in the event that the  Indemnitor  shall not  previously  have
assumed the defense of an action or claim,  at such time as the Indemnitor  does
assume the defense of the action or claim,  the Indemnitor  shall not thereafter
be liable to any Indemnitee for legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by
the Indemnitee in  investigating,  preparing or defending against such action or
claim.

     Anything  in  this  Section  9.18  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  the
Indemnitor  shall  not be  liable  for any  settlement  of any  claim or  action
effected  without  its written  consent;  provided,  however,  that if after due
notice the Indemnitor  refuses to defend a claim or action, the Indemnitee shall
have the right to defend and/or settle such action, and the Indemnitee shall not
be precluded from making a claim against the Indemnitor for reasonable  expenses
and liabilities resulting from such defense and/or settlement in accordance with
this Section 9.18.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.18, there may be
particular actions or claims which reasonably could result in both Parties being
liable to the other under the indemnification  provisions of this Agreement.  In
such events, the Parties shall endeavor, acting reasonably and in good faith, to
agree upon a manner of  conducting  the defense and  settlement of the action or
claim with a view to minimizing  the legal  expenses and  associated  costs that
might  otherwise  be incurred by the  Parties,  such as, by way of  illustration
only, agreeing to use the same legal counsel.

     The indemnification  provisions of this Section 9.18 shall not inure to the
benefit of any third party.  By way of  illustration  only, an insurer who would
otherwise  be  obligated  to  pay  any  claim  shall  not  be  relieved  of  the
responsibility with respect thereto, or, solely by virtue of the indemnification
provisions,  hereof,  have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, it being
expressly  understood  and agreed that no insurer or any other third party shall
be  entitled  to a  "windfall"  (i.e.,  a benefit  they would 



not be entitled to receive in the absence of the indemnification  provisions) by
virtue of these indemnification provisions.

9.19 NOTICES

     Any notice,  demand,  claim,  or other  communication  under this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall given in accordance with the provisions for giving
notice under the Separation Agreement.

9.20 INTERPRETATION.

     Words in the  singular  shall be held to include  the plural and vice versa
and  words of one  gender  shall be held to  include  the other  genders  as the
context  requires.  The terms  "hereof,"  "herein," and  "herewith" and words of
similar import shall,  unless  otherwise  stated,  be construed to refer to this
Agreement as a whole  (including all Exhibits  hereto) and not to any particular
provision of this  Agreement.  The word  "including" and words of similar import
when used in this Agreement shall mean "including,  without  limitation," unless
the context  otherwise  requires or unless  otherwise  specified.  The word "or"
shall not be exclusive.

9.21 GOVERNING LAW/EXECUTION

     This  Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in accordance  with the
laws of the State of North Carolina, may not be assigned by either Party without
the written consent of the other, and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the
Parties hereto and their  respective  successors and permitted  assignees.  This
Agreement may not be amended or  supplemented  except by an agreement in writing
signed by PepsiCo and TRICON.  This  Agreement may be executed in  counterparts,
each of which  shall be  deemed  an  original  and all of which  together  shall
constitute one and the same instrument.

     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  caused  this  Employee  Programs
Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

PepsiCo, Inc.



By:  /s/ Karl von der Heyden
     -----------------------------
Name:  Karl von der Heyden
Title:    Chief Financial Officer


TRICON, Inc.


By:  /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
     ----------------------------
Name:  Andrall E. Pearson
Title:    Chairman of the Board




                           PEPSICO EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS
                                APPENDIX A 

                           PEPSICO EXECUTIVE PROGRAMS


PepsiCo, Inc. Executive Income Deferral Program
PepsiCo, Inc. Performance Share Unit Deferral Program
PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan
PepsiCo, Inc. Option Gains Deferral Program
Middle Management Incentive Compensation Plan
PepsiCo Inc. Executive Incentive Plan
PepsiCo, Inc. 1987 Long-Term Incentive Plan
PepsiCo, Inc. 1995 Stock Option Incentive Plan
PepsiCo, Inc. 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan
Financial Planning (including tax planning and return preparation)
Country Club Program
Split-Dollar Life Insurance
Executive Automobile Program
Executive Loan Program
Individual   Agreements   (including   employment,   separation  and  consulting
agreements,  special  bonus  arrangements,   leave  of  absence  agreements  and
commitments made in the context of any merger, acquisition or similar activity)

Restaurant Deferred Compensation Plan





                                   APPENDIX B

                            HEALTH AND WELFARE PLANS



Part One:  PepsiCo Restaurant Health and Welfare Plans

Health Plan:
         Restaurant  Employees  Health Care  Program  (which  includes  medical,
         post-retirement    medical,    dental,    prescription   drug,   mental
         health/substance   abuse,   various  HMOs  and  OSCs,   vision/hearing,
         LensCrafters vision, health care reimbursement, and employee assistance
         benefits).

Group Insurance Plan:
         Restaurant  Employees Group Insurance Program (which includes basic and
         optional life, accidental death and dismemberment,  and business travel
         accident insurance benefits).

Disability Plans:
         PepsiCo Long Term Disability Plan
         PepsiCo Salary Continuation Plan (short-term disability plan)
         Salary Continuation Plan for Employees Working in States other than 
         California

Combination Plan (Health and Cafeteria):
         Taco Bell Pre-Tax Elective Benefits Plan

Severance Plans:
         Pizza Hut Severance Plan
         KFC Severance Plan
         Taco Bell Severance Plan

Miscellaneous Plans (ERISA):
         PepsiCo Group Legal Services Plan
         PepsiCo Vacation Plan for Hourly Crew Employees

Cafeteria Plans (non-ERISA):
         Pizza Hut Benefits Plus
         Pizza Hut Pre-Tax Crew Benefits Plan
         KFC Benefits Plus
         PepsiCo One + Plus (KFC hourly plan)
         Taco Bell Benefits Plus

Miscellaneous Plans (non-ERISA):
         PepsiCo Dependent Care Reimbursement Plan
         PepsiCo Educational Assistance Program





Part Two:  TRICON Health and Welfare Plans

Health Plan:
         TRICON   Employees   Health  Care  Program  (which  includes   medical,
         post-retirement    medical,    dental,    prescription   drug,   mental
         health/substance   abuse,   various  HMOs  and  OSCs,   vision/hearing,
         LensCrafters vision, health care reimbursement, and employee assistance
         benefits).

Group Insurance Plan:
         TRICON  Employees  Group  Insurance  Program (which  includes basic and
         optional  life,  accidental  death  and  dismemberment,   and  employee
         assistance benefits).

Disability Plans:
         TRICON Long Term Disability Plan
         TRICON Salary Continuation Plan (Short-Term disability plan)
         TRICON Salary Continuation Plan for Employees Working in States other
         than California

Combination Plan (Health and Cafeteria):
         Taco Bell Pre-Tax Elective Benefits Plan

Severance Plans:
         Pizza Hut Severance Plan
         KFC Severance Plan
         Taco Bell Severance Plan

Miscellaneous Plans (ERISA):
         TRICON Group Legal Services Plan
         TRICON Vacation Plan for Hourly Crew Employees

Cafeteria Plan (non-ERISA):
         Pizza Hut Benefits Plus
         Pizza Hut Pre-Tax Crew Benefits Plan
         KFC Benefits Plus
         KFC One + Plus
         Taco Bell Benefits Plan

Miscellaneous Plans (non-ERISA):
         TRICON Dependent Care Reimbursement Plan
         TRICON Educational Assistance Program




                                   APPENDIX C

                                  FOREIGN PLANS


     This Appendix C describes the principles under which Foreign Plans shall be
treated.  For purposes of this  Appendix,  outside the U.S. means outside the 50
United States,  its territories and  possessions,  and the District of Columbia,
and  employed  outside  the U.S.  means  compensated  under a  payroll  which is
administered outside the U.S..

C.1  Plans Covering only Employees of PepsiCo or TRICON

     Effective  as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date or such later date as
may be required by  applicable  law,  union,  or works  council  agreement,  any
Foreign  Plan that  covers  only  individuals  employed  outside the U.S. by the
PepsiCo  Group  shall be the sole  responsibility  of the  PepsiCo  Group and no
member of the TRICON Group shall have any Liability with respect to such a Plan;
and any Foreign Plan that covers only  individuals  employed outside the U.S. by
the TRICON  Group shall be the sole  responsibility  of the TRICON  Group and no
member of the PepsiCo  Group  shall have any  Liability  with  respect to such a
Plan.

C.2  Plans Covering Employees of Both PepsiCo and TRICON

     (a) Termination of Participation

     Effective as of the Close of the Distribution  Date, if legally  permitted,
or as soon as possible  thereafter,  TRICON and each other applicable  member of
the TRICON Group shall cease to be a Participating  Company in each Foreign Plan
maintained by the PepsiCo Group and PepsiCo and each other applicable  member of
the PepsiCo Group shall cease to be a Participating Company in each Foreign Plan
maintained by the TRICON Group.

     (b) Mirror Plans

          (1) Effective  Immediately  after the Distribution  Date, TRICON shall
     adopt,  or cause to be adopted,  Foreign Plans for the benefit of employees
     of the TRICON Group employed  outside the United States who are eligible to
     participate  in PepsiCo  Foreign Plans and shall cause such TRICON  Foreign
     Plans  to be  substantially  identical  in  all  Material  Features  to the
     corresponding  PepsiCo Foreign Plans as in effect on the Distribution Date;
     provided,  however,  that TRICON may satisfy this  requirement by extending
     coverage to such individuals under a Foreign Plan of the TRICON Group which
     was in effect before the Distribution Date.

          (2) Effective  Immediately after the Distribution  Date, PepsiCo shall
     adopt,  or cause to be adopted,  Plans for the benefit of  employees of the
     PepsiCo  Group  employed  outside  the United  States who are  eligible  to
     participate  in Plans  and  shall  cause  such  Plans  to be  substantially
     identical  in all Material  Features to the  corresponding  TRICON  Foreign
     Plans as in  effect  on the  Distribution  Date;  provided,  however,  that
     PepsiCo may satisfy this requirement by extending or continuing coverage to
     such  individuals  under a PepsiCo  Foreign Plan of the PepsiCo Group which
     was in effect before the Distribution Date.



          (3) The continuation by PepsiCo or TRICON of separate employment terms
     and conditions for employees previously covered by the other entity's Plans
     shall not continue beyond the time legally required.

     (c) Transfer of Assets

     As of the Close of the Distribution Date, PepsiCo and TRICON will use their
reasonable  best efforts to ensure that, to the extent  legally  permitted:  (i)
Liabilities of the Foreign Plans of PepsiCo relating to Transferred  Individuals
shall be assumed by the appropriate  Foreign Plans of TRICON; and (ii) a portion
of any  assets of the  Foreign  Plans of  PepsiCo  shall be  transferred  to the
appropriate Foreign Plans of TRICON, and vice versa.

C.3  Severance Issues

     If under  applicable law, any Transferred  Individual  employed outside the
U.S. is deemed to have incurred a  termination  of employment as a result of the
Distribution or any other transaction  contemplated by the Separation  Agreement
or this  Agreement,  which  entitles  such  individual to receive any payment or
benefit under any Foreign Plan,  governmental plan or arrangement or pursuant to
any  law or  regulation,  including  severance  benefits,  notwithstanding  such
individual's  continued  employment  by the TRICON  Group,  then TRICON shall be
liable for any such payment or benefit and,  notwithstanding any other provision
hereof, to the extent legally permitted,  appropriate  adjustments shall be made
to the treatment of such individual during such continued employment,  including
not  giving  such  individual  credit for prior  service  and/or  treating  such
individual as having been newly hired immediately after such deemed termination,
for purposes of all  applicable  Foreign  Plans.  Liability with respect to such
payments shall be the responsibility of TRICON.

C.4  Legally Permitted

     For purposes of this Appendix C, "legally  permitted" means permitted under
the laws of the country, the labor union, works council, or collective agreement
without adverse consequences to PepsiCo, TRICON or Transferred  Individuals,  as
determined  by  PepsiCo,  in its sole  discretion,  including  mandated  waiting
periods before which working conditions  (including benefits) cannot be changed,
and upon receiving  required  agreement from  individual  employees  and/or Plan
trustees,  foundation boards and members,  and any other organizations  having a
recognized right to determine or affect benefits and/or funding of the Plan.

C.5  Multinational Pooling

     PepsiCo  and  TRICON  shall  keep  their  existing   multinational  pooling
arrangements  intact through December 31, 1997. If there is any dividend payable
from the  consolidated  pooling  arrangements  with  respect  to the  1997  pool
accounting  year,  that  dividend will be allocated  between  PepsiCo and TRICON
proportionately, based on the contribution to the overall surplus of the pooling
arrangements   by  the  PepsiCo  Group  and  the  TRICON  Group,   respectively.
Alternatively,  any net deficits  incurred  under any one (or all)  consolidated
pooling arrangement(s) will be apportioned back to the entity which incurred the
deficit proportionately based on each entities' contribution to the net deficit.

     Any potential  additions  (local  insurance  contracts) to the consolidated
pooling  arrangement during the remainder of the 1997  international  accounting
period will be mutually agreed upon between PepsiCo and TRICON.


  
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.4
                        TELECOMMUNICATIONS, SOFTWARE AND
                          COMPUTING SERVICES AGREEMENT

     This agreement is made as of August 26, 1997 by and between PepsiCo,  Inc.,
a North Carolina corporation ("PepsiCo"), and TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc., a
North Carolina corporation ("TRICON") and, as of the date hereof, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of PepsiCo.

     WHEREAS,  the PepsiCo Data Services  Center  ("PDS"),  located at Hillcrest
Oak, 6600 and 6606 LBJ Freeway, Dallas, Texas, is operated by PepsiCo Restaurant
Services Group, Inc. ("PRSG"); and

     WHEREAS, the PDS provides certain telecommunications and computing services
to (i) PepsiCo,  its Pepsi-Cola  division and subsidiaries of PepsiCo other than
TRICON and its subsidiaries (the "PepsiCo Organization") and (ii) TRICON and its
subsidiaries (the "TRICON Organization"); and

     WHEREAS,  PepsiCo has decided to consolidate its restaurant  operations and
assets into TRICON and TRICON's  subsidiaries and to distribute the Common Stock
of TRICON to the holders of the Capital Stock of PepsiCo (the  effective date of
such distribution shall hereinafter be referred to as the "Distribution  Date");
and

     WHEREAS,  pursuant  to Section 8 of the  Separation  Agreement  dated as of
August 26, 1997 between  PepsiCo and TRICON,  the parties  hereto have agreed to
set  forth  the   arrangements   between   them  with   respect   to   software,
telecommunication  services and  computing  services and third party  agreements
relating thereto.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein,
the parties hereto agree as follows:

1.   A. Until the Transfer (as hereinafter defined),  TRICON shall cause the PDS
     to  provide  computer  services  to the  PepsiCo  Organization,  which such
     services are described in Exhibit A attached hereto. TRICON shall cause the
     PDS (a) to perform such services in a competent and timely manner using the
     highest level of professional skill, care and diligence, and (b) to perform
     such services in a manner which is consistent  with the services  currently
     provided by the PDS to the PepsiCo Organization.

     B. The parties hereto shall  cooperate to effect a transfer of that portion
     of the PDS  sufficient  to provide  the  computing  services to the PepsiCo
     Organization  described in Section 1B, above,  to the Frito-Lay data center
     or  some  other  new  or  existing  data  center  chosen  by  PepsiCo  (the
     "Transfer").  The parties  expect the Transfer to be completed by March 31,
     1998.  The hardware and software to be so  transferred is listed on Exhibit
     B, attached hereto.  TRICON warrants that such hardware is currently leased
     to,  and the  software  licensed  to,  PepsiCo  or a member of the  PepsiCo
     Organization,  and the PDS  will  furnish  to the  PepsiCo  Organization  a
     current and valid lease or license agreement, as applicable,  therefor. The
     PepsiCo  Organization  shall pay or reimburse the TRICON  Organization with
     respect to reasonable costs actually  incurred after the Distribution  Date
     which are  directly  related to and  necessary  for the carrying out of the
     Transfer and are approved in advance by PepsiCo.  Such costs shall  include
     (i) consulting  services for moving the PepsiCo and  Pepsi-Cola  equipment,
     (ii) costs of disconnecting,  packaging and shipping such equipment,  (iii)
     severance  pay for excess PDS personnel as a result of the Transfer who are
     not (x) continued in employment or re-employed in the TRICON  Organization,
     or (y) transferred to or hired by the PepsiCo Organization,  and (iv) lease
     costs of continuing to lease equipment not transferred  which was 



     primarily or exclusively utilized for the PepsiCo Organization prior to the
     Transfer. TRICON shall provide such documentation of the foregoing costs as
     PepsiCo may reasonably request.

     C. TRICON  warrants that the PDS currently has, and  immediately  after the
     Transfer shall have,  hardware and software owned,  leased,  or licensed by
     the TRICON  Organization which is adequate to provide all computer services
     to the  TRICON  Organization  at a level  and in a manner  consistent  with
     services  provided  currently and  immediately  prior to the Transfer,  and
     TRICON  agrees  that  PepsiCo and the  PepsiCo  Organization  shall have no
     liability or  responsibility  with  respect to any matters  relating to the
     hardware, software or services provided to the TRICON Organization.

     D. (i) From the  Distribution  Date until the end of PepsiCo's  fiscal year
     1997,  PepsiCo  and  Pepsi-Cola  Company  shall pay to  TRICON  for the PDS
     services   provided   hereunder   the  amount  of  $32,850  and   $442,000,
     respectively,  per PepsiCo  accounting  period,  or such  lesser  amount(s)
     (and/or less any rebates)  calculated by the PDS pursuant to its reasonable
     calculations  done in a  timely  manner  consistent  with  the  charge-back
     methodology  used by it in prior  years,  payable at the  beginning of each
     accounting  period.  In addition,  PepsiCo and Pepsi-Cola shall continue to
     pay appropriate charges for network costs, network management,  and postage
     for tape handling, consistent with prior practices.

          (ii) From the  beginning  of PepsiCo's  fiscal year 1998,  PepsiCo and
     Pepsi-Cola shall pay to TRICON for the PDS services provided hereunder such
     amounts  as  are   calculated  by  the  PDS  pursuant  to  its   reasonable
     calculations done in a timely manner and agreed to by PepsiCo.

          (iii) The  foregoing  amounts  shall be  apportioned  for any  partial
     accounting  period during which such services are performed and include all
     applicable federal,  state, and local sales, use or similar taxes currently
     in force.

2.   Effective  as of October 6, 1997,  PepsiCo  assigns to TRICON the  Services
     Agreement  dated as of July  11,  1997 by and  between  PepsiCo,  Inc.  and
     AmeriServe  Distribution,  Inc.  ("AmeriServe") a copy of which is attached
     hereto, and all of PepsiCo's rights, obligations and duties thereunder. The
     subject of the  Services  Agreement  is, in essence,  the  provision of PDS
     services to AmeriServe.  TRICON hereby accepts such assignment,  and agrees
     to abide by the terms of the Services Agreement and to properly perform all
     of PepsiCo's obligations and duties thereunder.

3.   A. (i) The  PepsiCo  Organization  and the TRICON  Organization  shall each
     continue to use and pay for AT&T  telecommunications  services  pursuant to
     the Virtual  Telecommunications  Network  Services  Agreement,  as amended,
     between AT&T Corp. and PepsiCo which became effective on July 23, 1990 (the
     "Tariff 12  Contract") in a manner and at a level  consistent  with current
     utilization,  in order to continue to meet the volume commitments and other
     requirements  thereof.  This obligation  shall continue through the term of
     the Tariff 12 Contract,  which such term ends October 8, 1998. As presently
     in place, the Tariff 12 Contract  provides for a total of 13 dedicated AT&T
     support  people,  no more than 4 of which will be  dedicated  to the TRICON
     Organization.  All dedicated  support  personnel will be accountable to the
     PepsiCo National Account Manager of AT&T. Those support people dedicated to
     the TRICON  Organization  may be  assigned in cities  designated  by TRICON
     provided  that major  TRICON  operations  or  divisional  headquarters  are
     retained in such cities.  TRICON understands that AT&T Corp. considers that
     PepsiCo is acting as a "reseller" with respect to the provision of services
     by AT&T, and the parties hereto agree to cooperate in all matters  relating
     to such  services.  The  parties  hereto  understand  and  agree  that AT&T
     services  under  PepsiCo's  Tariff 12 Contract shall not be extended to the
     TRICON  Organization  after  October  8, 1998  unless  otherwise  agreed in
     writing between the parties.

          (ii) The Tariff 12 Contract  provides that if certain usage volume/mix
     goals  are  met,  PepsiCo  will  receive  a  credit  of  up  to  $1,400,000
     attributable to the second year of the Tariff 12 Contract ending 



     October 8, 1998.  PepsiCo  agrees to distribute a portion of such credit to
     TRICON, as promptly as practicable after receipt thereof, in two parts. The
     first  part  will  equal  the  percentage  that  the  usage  of the  TRICON
     Organization  bears to the total usage under the Tariff 12 Contract for the
     period October, 1997 through March, 1998 times one half the credit received
     by PepsiCo  for the second  year of the  contract.  The second part will be
     calculated similarly for the period April, 1998 through September, 1998.

     B. The Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  businesses of the TRICON  Organization
     can  continue  as  active  (non-terminated)  Passport  Customers  under the
     PepsiCo,  Inc. Lotus Passport  Program  agreement dated as of May 17, 1995,
     incorporated herein by reference,  through its extended termination date of
     May 16,  1998  subject  to their  performance  of all of their  duties  and
     obligations thereunder.

4.   PepsiCo shall allow the TRICON  Organization to continue to use the PepsiCo
     e-mail hub ("hub") for the purpose of maintaining  e-mail service among the
     divisions  of the  TRICON  Organization  until  6/30/98.  TRICON's  use and
     management of the hub, and  PepsiCo's  maintenance  thereof,  shall be in a
     manner  consistent  with such use,  management  and  maintenance  currently
     provided.

     TRICON shall  cooperate  with the PepsiCo  Organization  so that the hub is
     physically  moved to a location within the PepsiCo  Organization  chosen by
     PepsiCo  not later  than  1/1/98,  with  continuity  of use by the  PepsiCo
     Organization to be maintained throughout. TRICON will arrange to remove all
     users  other  than the  PepsiCo  Organization  from the hub not later  than
     6/30/98.  TRICON  shall pay  PepsiCo  $10,000  per month for the  months of
     February and March 1998 and $20,000 per month for the months of April,  May
     and June 1998.

5.   A.  Programs  and  systems  developed  in-house  by  PepsiCo  and  utilized
     (exclusively  or  non-exclusively)  in the restaurant  business  ("Internal
     Software")  are  listed  on  Exhibit  D1  hereto.  Each  Internal  Software
     application  with respect to which it has been agreed to transfer a copy to
     TRICON  for  its  use in the  restaurant  business  ("Transferred  Internal
     Application" or "Application") is noted on Exhibit D1. With respect to each
     Transferred Internal Application:

          i) PepsiCo grants to TRICON a non-transferable and non-exclusive right
     and license to use the Application in its restaurant business;

          ii) The  transfer  to  TRICON  shall be  accomplished  no  later  than
     December  31, 1997,  and PepsiCo  shall not be  responsible  for running or
     maintaining such Application after the transfer;

          iii)  Certain  Applications  require  licenses  from third  parties as
     identified on Schedule D 1, and the parties shall  cooperate to arrange for
     the additional  licenses needed,  any addtional license cost to be borne by
     TRICON;

          iv) Each  Application is provided "as is", and without warranty of any
     kind;

          v) PEPSICO DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE
     IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE;
     AND 

          vi) PepsiCo and TRICON each assumes  responsibility for its own use of
     such Application,  and will indemnify and defend the other party (including
     reasonable  attorneys  fees)  against any claim of a third party  resulting
     from such use,  and the party  seeking such  indemnity  will give the other
     prompt written  notice of all such claims and  reasonably  cooperate in the
     defense thereof.

     B. Prepackaged  systems  commercially  available from  third-party  vendors
     utilized by PepsiCo at Purchase, NY in the restaurant business ("Commercial
     Systems")  are listed on Exhibit D2 hereto.  No 


     transfer to TRICON is being made of  Commercial  Systems.  TRICON is solely
     responsible  for obtaining  its own  license(s) at its cost and expense for
     any Commercial Licenses it desires to utilize after the Distribution Date.

6.   The  PepsiCo  Organization  shall  continue to provide  vendor  information
     management ("VIM") services for TRICON Organization employee benefits after
     the  Distribution  for a mutually  agreed time not to extend past 12/31/97.
     Such services,  and the costs  therefor,  shall be as outlined in Exhibit C
     attached  hereto,  but no services  shall include  anything to do with 1998
     benefits programs.

7.   The  parties  will also  furnish  such other  telecommunications,  software
     and/or  computing  services as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out
     the terms, conditions and intent of the Employee Benefits Agreement entered
     into pursuant to Section 7 of the Separation Agreement.

8.   TRICON  agrees to  indemnify  and hold  harmless  PepsiCo  and the  PepsiCo
     Organization  and its and their officers,  employees and agents against any
     losses,  claims,  damages,  judgments,  liabilities or expenses  (including
     reasonable counsel fees and expenses)  resulting from (i) any negligent act
     or omission or willful misconduct of TRICON, the TRICON  Organization,  the
     PDS or any of its or their  directors,  officers,  employees,  consultants,
     contractors,  or agents in performing their obligations hereunder;  or (ii)
     any failure by TRICON or the PDS to properly provide the services described
     herein or any other  default  by  TRICON or the PDS  hereunder,  including,
     without  limitations,  losses  incurred  as a result of any  violations  of
     software or other  intellectual  property rights on the part of TRICON, the
     TRICON  Organization or the PDS, or (iii) the failure to utilize or pay for
     AT&T services  pursuant to paragraph 3, except for the force majeure causes
     described in Section 9 below. PepsiCo agrees to indemnify and hold harmless
     TRICON and the TRICON  Organization  and its and their officers,  employees
     and agents against any losses, claims, damages,  judgments,  liabilities or
     expenses  (including  reasonable counsel fees and expenses)  resulting from
     any  negligent  act or  omission  or willful  misconduct  of PepsiCo or the
     PepsiCo   Organization  or  any.of  its  or  their   officers,   employees,
     consultants,   contractors,  or  agents  in  performing  their  obligations
     hereunder,  or any  default  by  PepsiCo  hereunder,  except  for the force
     majeure causes described in Section 9 below. The provisions of this Section
     8 shall survive the expiration or prior termination of this Agreement.

9.   Delays in performance  by TRICON and PepsiCo  hereunder will be excused due
     solely to circumstances  beyond its reasonable  control,  including but not
     limited to acts of God,  fluctuations  or  non-availability  of  electrical
     power, heat, light or air conditioning.

10.  All notices and requests in connection  with this  Agreement  shall be made
     upon the  respective  parties in writing and shall be deemed  given by hand
     delivery,  effective  upon  receipt  thereof,  or  via  overnight  courier,
     effective upon receipt. All notices shall be addressed as follows:

         If to PepsiCo:             PepsiCo, Inc.
                                    700 Anderson Hill Road
                                    Purchase, New York 10577
                                    Attention: Controller

         If to TRICON:              TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                                    1441 Gardiner Lane
                                    Louisville, KY 40213
                                    Attention: Chief Financial Officer

     or to such other  address as the party to receive the notice so  designates
by written notice to the other party.


11.  This Agreement and performance hereunder shall be governed by and construed
     in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina.

12.  It is  expressly  understood  that  neither  PepsiCo  nor  TRICON  has  the
     authority to bind the other to any third person, or otherwise to act in any
     way as the representative of the other,  unless otherwise  expressly agreed
     to in writing signed by both parties hereto.

13.  This Agreement and the rights and duties  hereunder shall not be assignable
     by the other party except with the prior written consent to such assignment
     by the other party.

14.  Each party shall keep confidential all information relating to the business
     of the other  party which it obtains as a result of the  services  provided
     under this  Agreement.  The  foregoing  shall not apply with respect to any
     information  (i) that is or becomes  publicly known through no fault of the
     party  receiving the  information  (the  "Receiver");  (ii) that is legally
     obtained by the Receiver from a third party  believed by the Receiver to be
     legally  entitled to disclose  it;  (iii) that is required to be  disclosed
     pursuant to a requirement  of a government  agency or law; (iv) that can be
     documented  through the Receiver's  files as known to the Receiver prior to
     receipt  pursuant to this Agreement,  expect with respect to data processed
     by PDS  under  this  Agreement;  or (v)  that  is  developed  by or for the
     Receiver, independent of activities under this Agreement.

15.  Each party  acknowledges  that it has read this Agreement,  understands it,
     and  agrees  to be bound by its  terms and  further  agrees  that it is the
     complete  and  exclusive  statement of the  agreement  between the parties,
     which  supersedes and merges all prior  proposals,  understandings  and all
     other  agreements,  oral and written  between  the parties  relating to the
     subject  matter of this  Agreement.  The  Agreement  may not be modified or
     altered except by written instrument duly executed by both parties.

          IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have signed this Agreement as
     of the date and year first written above.

TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.              PepsiCo, Inc.



By: /s/ Andrall Pearson                      By: /s/ Allan B. Deering
    -----------------------------                ---------------------
Title:                                       Title:  VP, MIS













                  EXHIBIT A TO TELECOMMUNICATIONS, SOFTWARE AND
                          COMPUTING SERVICES AGREEMENT

                            PDS SERVICES AND SUPPORT

 .





                         TABLE OF CONTENTS TO EXHIBIT A



            I.    PDS Obligations

           II.    PDS Support Areas

          III.    Maintenance Activities

           IV.    PDS-PepsiCo Organization Management Contacts

            V.    Problem Resolution Procedures

           VI.    Hours of Operation

          VII.    Project Accountability

         VIII.    Hardware/Software Strategy






I.   PDS Obligations

     The PDS shall provide cost effective information processing services to the
     PepsiCo  Organization  to enable  the  PepsiCo  Organization  to attain its
     business  objectives,  based  upon the  scope of the work set forth in this
     Exhibit A, and for the fees (and based upon the other terms and conditions)
     set  forth  in the  attached  Telecommunications,  Software  and  Computing
     Services Agreement (the "Services  Agreement").  The parties hereby confirm
     their mutual  intention  that,  unless  expressly  provided to the contrary
     herein,  the  services to be  provided  by PDS to the PepsiCo  Organization
     during the term of this Agreement shall be substantially  the same services
     as have  been  provided  by PDS to the  PepsiCo  Organization  prior to the
     effective  date of this  Agreement.  The parties  shall execute and deliver
     such further instruments,  documents,  conveyances and assurances, and take
     such other action (including,  without limitation,  amending,  modifying or
     supplementing this Agreement),  as may be necessary or appropriate to carry
     out the foregoing intention of the parties.

II.  PDS Support Areas

     The PDS will provide  support to the PepsiCo  Organization in the following
     major categories:

     Technical  Services:  This group supports the mainframe  operating  systems
     (MVS & VM) along with 400 different  products  that run on the  mainframes.
     Software  standardization,  keeping all products on supported releases, and
     maximum availability are the group's primary services.

     Computer  Resources:  This group supports the storage areas (DASD and Tape)
     associated with mainframe data processing.  Quarterly  performance  reports
     are provided to each  division,  along with capacity  planning and disaster
     recovery.

     Network  Services:  The  network  services  group will  continue to provide
     expertise and management  for the PepsiCo e-mail hub and support  mainframe
     networking  software  along  with the  routers,  bridges,  hubs  and  other
     telecomm equipment associated with the PepsiCo Wide Area Network (WAN) in a
     manner consistent with their current delivery of services. In addition, the
     network services group will continue to provide polling  expertise for PCNA
     bottlers until other such arrangements can be made. Network management will
     be provided according to the existing arrangement with PCNA.

     Computer Operations: This group monitors the system consoles, mounts tapes,
     and coordinates all hardware installs and environmental  changes supporting
     the raised floor areas.  In  addition,  this group  handles the mailing and
     receiving  of tapes,  coordinates  the  change  control  process  to ensure
     minimum  service   disruption  when  hardware  and  software   changes  are
     implemented. This group takes the problem calls from divisional help desks,
     open problem tickets, and assigns the ticket to the appropriate technician.

III. Maintenance Activities

     Standard  software  and hardware  maintenance  is scheduled on Sundays from
     6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. CST and documented weekly through PDS change control
     system.  Non-standard maintenance (CPU swapout,  operating system upgrades,
     etc.)  require  an  extended  outage  time  and is  coordinated  through  a
     divisional liaison.

IV.  PDS-PepsiCo Organization Management Contacts

     PDS and the PepsiCo Organization will each designate,  and inform the other
     of, a representative to resolve any issues with priority setting or problem
     resolution.





V.   Problem Resolution Procedures

     Problems are phoned in to PDS  operations  and then  assigned to one of the
     PDS  technicians.  There are four  severity  levels  which the division can
     assign to a problem. The PDS provides guidelines for assigning the severity
     level as well as  problem  resolution  guidelines  and  timelines.  All PDS
     technicians and managers carry pagers,  and the primary on-call  technician
     for the different functions carries a cell phone. The PepsiCo  Organization
     has access to the PDS change control system for data center communications.

VI.  Hours of Operation

     The PDS shall conduct its  operations at all times,  24 hours a day,  every
     day  until  the  Transfer  (as  defined  in the  Services  Agreement).  The
     technicians  are on-site  during normal  business  hours.  (Monday  through
     Friday and pageable at all times.)

VII. Project Accountability

     In scope  projects are agreed upon by each  division and the PDS during the
     budgeting cycle of the previous year.  Out-of-scope projects are handled on
     a best  effort  or at an  additional  cost  to  the  division.  The  PDS is
     project/lead  coordinator and provides project plans as well as the testing
     requirement that the division must provide.

VIII. Hardware/Software Strategy

     PDS,  in  providing  its  services  hereunder,  shall  implement  a PepsiCo
     Organization   hardware  and  software  strategy  to  isolate  the  PepsiCo
     Organization  from  the  rest  of  the  divisions,  providing  the  PepsiCo
     Organization  with its own CPU and non-shared DASD and Tape devices.  Other
     strategies to be  implemented  by PDS include  hardware and software  asset
     management to complement the planned Transfer.




                                                                       EXHIBIT B

                     HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE TO BE TRANSFERRED



1.       Software Portfolio (see attached)

2.       Other:

         Paradyne Pixnet

         Barr RJE

         E-Mail Hub (R/S/6000)

         Routers

         DSU's

         Intelligent Hubs





                                                              Exhibit B (cont'd)

               Frito Lay & Pepsi Co. Enterprise Software Portfolio

                                               Replacement           Replacement
Company       Software Product                   Company               Product
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Allen Sys.    DR/VFI
BMC           Alter for DB2
BMC           Catalog Mgr for DB2
BMC           Copy Plus for DB2
BMC           DASD Mgr for DB2
BMC           Journal Mgr Plus** cks
BMC           Loadplus for DB2
BMC           Opertune for DB2
BMC           Recovery Plus
BMC           Reorg Plus for DB2
BMC           Unload Plus for DB2
BMC           JPU/E
CA            Easytrieve Plus
CA            Optimizer Runtime LIB's
CA            ACF2/MVS                      IBM                       RACK
CA            DADSPLUS                      NETTEC                    CAFC
CA            ELEVEN                        Cybermation               ESP
CA            FILESAVE/RCS                  BMC                       JPU/E
CA            INTERTEST                     COMPUWARE              XPEDITER/CICS
CA            LIBRARIAN
CA            LIBRARIAN/TSO
CA            LIBRARIAN/ACSS
CA            LIBRARIAN/ADIT
CA            ONE                           IBM                       RMM
CA            SEVEN                         Cybermation               ESP
CA            UCANDU
CA            OPS/MVS
CA            DELIVER
CA            DELIVER/VTAM
CA            VIEW
CA            VIEW/ERO
CA            VEW/VTAM
CA            FAVOR                         SOFTWORKS            VSAM     ASSIST
CA            NAVIGRAPH/PC
CA            NETSPY                        IBM                       NETVIEW
CA            OPS/OCF
CA            PARAMOUNT





                                                   Replacement       Replacement
Company                  Software Product            Company           Product
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CA                       PREVAIL/XP AUTO
CA                       PREVAIL/XP AUTO MSF
CA                       TPX
CA                       TPX/ACL
CA                       TPX/CMPRESN
CA                       TPX/MAILBOX
CANDLE                   OMEGAMON
CANDLE                   OMEGAMONI/JMVS/CICS/DB2
CANDLE                   DB2 SOLUTION PAC
CANDLE                   OMEGAVIEW
CHICAGOSOFT              QUICKREF
COMPUWARE                ABENDAID/MVS
COMPUWARE                ABENDAID/CICS
COMPUWARE                FILE-AID/MVS
COMPUWARE                VSAM FILE EXTENSION
COMPUWARE                XPEDITER/CICS
COMPUWARE                XPEDITER/TSO
DIVERSFIELD              DOCUTEXT-BASE
DIVERSFIELD              JOBSCAN
EBERHARD KLEMENS         ETF/A
GEINFO                   DSXMIT2
GT SOFT                  MACRO/GT (BMS)
GT SOFT                  SCREEN/GT (BMS)
GUPTA                    SQLHOST
GUPTA                    SUPPORT-LSS/SQLGTWY
INFO BUILDERS            DATA MANAGEMENT (VM)
INFO BUILDERS            REPORT GENERATOR (VM)
INNOVATION               FDR/ABR
INNOVATION               IAM
ISOGON                   LICENSE POWER
ISOGON                   SOFTAUDIT
ISOGON                   SPIFFY
LEVI, RAY & SHOUP        DRS
LEVI, RAY & SHOUP        VPS
LEVI, RAY & SHOUP        VPS/TCPIP
LEVI, RAY & SHOUP        VPS/VMCF
MB SOLUTION              VSAM/EASY (VNA TB)
MITCHEM                  SRS/SRS-VSAM
MVS SOLUTION             THRUPUT MANAGER
NETEC                    CICS CAFC




                                                  Replacement       Replacement
Company                 Software Product            Company           Product
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLATINUM                ZEKE
PLATINUM                ZEB
PLATINUM                ZARA
PLATINUM                BETA44
PROGRAMART              STROBE
PROGRAMART              STROBE/BD2
SAS                     SAS/AF
SAS                     SAS/BASE
SAS                     SAS/FSP
SAS                     SAS/IPXT GRAPH
SAS                     SAS/IPXT
SAS                     SAS/STAT
SAS                     WINDOWS-SAA/CONNECT
SAS                     WINDOWS-SAS
SAS                     WINDOWS-SAS GRAPH
SOFTTOUCH               VTAM/EXPRESS
SERENA                  PDS/TOOLS/UPG
SIRIUS                  SIREDIT/SIRPRO
SOFTWARE AG             ADABASE
SOFTWARE AG             COMPLETE
SOFTWARE AG             NATURAL
SOFTWARE AG             NATURAL ELITE BASIC
SOFTWARE AG             NATURAL SECURITY
SOFTWARE AG             PREDICT
SOFTWORKS               VSAM MECHANIC
SPL SYSTEMS             ADAPREP
STERLING                MVS CONNECT
STERLING                SAM'S DISK
STERLING                COMPAREX
SYNCSORT                SYNCSORT/MVS
TANGRAM                 AM:PM
TSI                     EASYLOGIC
TSI                     KEYMASTER
XENOS                   CONSOLE MANAGER




NWBU (Alpac) SOFTWARE PORTFOLIO

                                                    Scheduled to be phased out
Company             Software Product                  by September 30, 1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CA                  DOCVIEW

GEAC (D&B)          AR-IBM/MVS E SERIES
GEAC (D&B)          FA-IBM/MVS E SERIES
GEAC (D&B)          GL-IBM/MVS E SERIES
GEAC (D&B)          MILLENNIUM-SDT
GEAC (D&B)          PURCH-IBM E SERIES

MACKINNEY           CICS/HOTPRINT
MACKINNEY           CICS/LOG VIEW
MACKINNEY           CICS/MAPR II
MACKINNEY           CICS MESSAGE
MACKINNEY           CICS/MORNING NEWS
MACKINNEY           CICS/SHOW & TELL
MACKINNEY           CICS/SPY
MACKINNEY           DP/MANAGER
MACKINNEY           ISPF VSAM UTILITY
MACKINNEY           LISTCAT PLUS

PRAXIS              ARMIS/204
PRAXIS              M204 DBMS
PRAXIS              PC INTERFACE
PRAXIS              PC/204
PRAXIS              RACF/M204 INTERFACE
PRAXIS              SAGE/204

SYNCSORT            PLSORT





Pepsi VM Software Portfolio

                                                     Scheduled to be phased out
Company              Software Product                   by December 31, 1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Allen Sys.           TEMPMAN

CA                   ACF2/VM

COMSHARE             IFPS (VM)
COMSHARE             IFPS/DATASPAN (VM)

INFO. BUILDERS       EXTENEDMATRIX RPT. (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       FOCUS DATA DICT. (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       FOCUS DBMS SERVER (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       FOCUS/HLI (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       FOCUS/XMI-CMI (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       FOCUS/XMI-SERVER (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       IFPS INTERFACE (VM)
INFO. BUILDERS       STATISTICAL ANALYSIS (VM)

MICROSOFT            MS MAL - VM GATEWAY

RELAY                RELAY 3270 FOR VM
RELAY                RELAY TRANSFER FOR VM

STERLING             VM/MANAGER
SYNCSORT             SYNCSORT/CMS



                                                                       Exhibit C

                   Spin-off -Telecommunications, Software and
                          Computing Services Agreement



     Accept employee update files from the division,  perform  standard  editing
     and  reporting  back to the  divisions,  and perform data feeds to benefits
     vendors via the VIM system. The following rates would apply:

     For regular  ongoing fees according to the current  production  schedule to
     the following vendors:

     $1,500 per division (Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC Divisions) input feed per
     period (VIMIN)

          $250 per vendor feed period

          HBA Premium Reconciliation

          Hyatt Group Legal

          Eye Care Plan of America

          Lenscrafters

     $1,500 per vendor feed per period

          Aetna Inforce

          United Healthcare Inforce

          CIGNA DMO

          John Hancock Managed STD

          MetLife Dental

          KPMG JumpStart

          Merrill Lynch weekly demographics

          State Street Bank demographics

     VIM will not provide  services for the following  vendor  feeds.  They will
     stop as of the Distribution date:






          Mercer Pension Information Line

          Mercer Pension Valuation

          Worker Compensation

          Merrill Lynch Mini-Grant updates

          Merrill Lynch Annual SharePower Grant

          Benefacts Mini Grant update statements

          Benefacts Total Compensation Statement

          Benefacts SharePower Statement

          Group Insurance Billing

     Special processing, programming or general support above and beyond ongoing
     vendor  processing.  These could be for example,  reports,  data dumps, new
     programs, updates to current programs, VIM Reporter development.

          $450 per day

     VIM Reporter Access           $500 per period





























                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.5

                        SALES AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT

     This Sales and Distribution Agreement dated as of the 6th day of May, 1997,
by and among PFS ("PFS"), an unincorporated  division of PepsiCo,  Inc., a North
Carolina  corporation,  Pizza Hut, Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("Pizza Hut"),
Taco Bell Corp., a California corporation ("Taco Bell"),  Kentucky Fried Chicken
Corporation,  a Delaware corporation,  and Kentucky Fried Chicken of California,
Inc., a Delaware  corporation  (Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation and Kentucky
Fried Chicken of  California,  Inc. are together  referred to herein as "KFCC");
(Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell and KFCC are  collectively  referred  to  herein as the
"Customer").

     WHEREAS,   PFS  is  an  approved   distributor  of  all   proprietary   and
non-proprietary  food, supplies,  equipment,  smallwares,  uniforms,  beverages,
promotional  items and point of purchase  materials sold to Pizza Hut, Taco Bell
and KFC company owned and franchised (including licensed) restaurants: and

     WHEREAS,  the  Customer  desires to appoint PFS, and PFS desires to act, as
the exclusive  distributor  of certain  proprietary  and  non-proprietary  food,
supplies and smallwares  (but not  restaurant  equipment,  uniforms,  beverages,
promotional  items or point of purchase  materials)  sold to the  company  owned
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants of the Customer within the continental
United States, all on the terms and conditions set forth herein;

     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1.   Appointment  as Approved  Distributor  of all Company Owned and  Franchised
     Restaurants.

     (a) The Customer hereby appoints PFS as an approved  distributor during the
term of this Agreement of the Restaurant  Products  (defined  below) sold to all
Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants,  whether  franchised or owned by the
Customer or its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  in the United States  (including
Hawaii  and  Alaska),  Canada  and the  countries  where PFS  currently  exports
Restaurant  Products from its distribution  centers in the United States,  which
countries are listed in Exhibit A attached hereto (the "Export Countries").  PFS
understands  that the  appointment  contained in this Section 1 is not exclusive
and  that  PFS  shall  only  have  the  exclusive  distribution  rights  for the
restaurants and products described in Section 2 below.

     (b) For purposes of this Agreement,  the term  "Restaurant  Products" shall
mean all of the  proprietary  and  non-proprietary  food,  equipment,  supplies,
smallwares  (pans,  brooms,  cutting  knifes,  salt and pepper  shakers,  etc.),
uniforms, beverages, promotional items (basketballs,  puppets, movies, etc.) and
point of purchase  materials (table tents,  door hangers,  etc.) currently or in
the future  approved by the  respective  Customer for purchase by any Pizza Hut,
Taco Bell or KFC  company  owned or  franchised  restaurants.  For  purposes  of
clarity,  smallwares as generally  known,  are reusable  items with small dollar
values such as the ones  described  above which are used in the operation of the
business and (i) expensed under the Customer's current accounting practices when
they are for  replacements  and (ii)  capitalized  under the Customer's  current
accounting  practice when they are purchased as part of a new restaurant opening
or a major rollout of a new Restaurant Product. In contrast, equipment items are
always capitalized under the Customer's current accounting  practice (whether as
a new or replacement item) and food and suppliers are always expensed.

     (c) All suppliers and  specifications  for all Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC
Restaurant  Products  purchased by PFS must be approved in advance in writing by
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFCC,  respectively.  PFS hereby  acknowledges  that it
shall  have  no  role  in  the  process  of   approving   any  supplier  or  the
specifications for the Restaurant  Products.  PFS understands that Pizza Hut has
signed an  exclusive  agreement  with Leprino  Foods  Company to buy 100% of the
cheese  used on pizzas by the Pizza Hut  restaurants  within the  United  States
which are owned by Pizza Hut and its  subsidiaries.  As a result,  unless  other
suppliers  are  


specifically approved in writing by Pizza Hut, Leprino Foods Company will be the
sole  designated  supplier of such  cheese  purchased  by Pizza Hut  restaurants
within the United  States,  both company owned and  franchised.  As described in
Section 7 below,  the  Customer's  Smart Sourcing  division or other  equivalent
purchasing  function  ("Smart  Sourcing")  shall  negotiate  the price and other
purchase  terms  of all  Restaurant  Products  sold  by  PFS  to  the  Exclusive
Restaurants  (defined below) and certain franchised Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC
restaurants  within the United  States.  PFS agrees  that it shall not  purchase
Restaurant  Products  under  agreements  negotiated  by Smart  Sourcing  for any
customers other than Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants  without the prior
written approval of Smart Sourcing.  Any breach of the preceding sentence by PFS
shall constitute a material breach of this Agreement

     (d) As described in this Section 1. PFS is an approved  distributor for all
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  throughout the United States,  Canada
and the Export  Countries.  All Sections of this Agreement  after this Section 1
shall, however, only describe the relationship between the Customer and PFS with
respect  to  certain  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  within the 48
contiguous  States of the United  States of  America  (the  "Continental  United
States").  To the extent that PFS sells  Restaurant  Products to Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell or KFC restaurants  outside of the Continental  United States, the Customer
and PFS  shall  separately  agree on the terms of their  relationship  for these
restaurants.

2.   Appointment as Exclusive Distributor of Company Owned Restaurants.

     (a) The Customer  hereby appoints PFS as the exclusive  distributor  during
the term of this  Agreement  of the  "Exclusive  Restaurant  Products"  (defined
below)   purchased  by  (i)  the  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  KFC  restaurants
(traditional  and  nontraditional  units) within the  Continental  United States
which are owned by the  Customer  on the  Closing  Date (as defined in Section 9
below) or any of its Subsidiaries  (defined below), except for Restaurants Under
Definitive Contract (defined below) and the 53 Excluded KFC Restaurants (defined
below)  or  (ii)  any  additional  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  or  KFC  restaurants
(traditional and nontraditional)  within the Continental United States which are
acquired or built by the  Customer or its  Subsidiaries  during the term of this
Agreement (the "Exclusive Restaurants").  The term "Restaurants Under Definitive
Contract"  shall mean any Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants  owned by the
Customer  which  the  Customer  has  agreed  to sell  pursuant  to a  definitive
agreement  signed by the parties  thereto  prior to the Closing  Date.  The term
"Excluded KFC Restaurants" shall mean the 53 KFC restaurants  currently owned by
WMCR  Corporation,  a subsidiary of KFCC, or hereafter built or acquired by WMCR
Corporation  in any of the four States  where it currently  operates,  Illinois,
Indiana, Michigan and Wisconsin. During the term of this Agreement, the Customer
and its  Subsidiaries  shall  purchase,  and PFS  agrees  to  sell,  100% of the
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  required by the Exclusive  Restaurants,  except
incidental  purchases in emergency  situations.  The Customer agrees that during
the term of this Agreement no supplier or distributor  other than PFS shall sell
the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  to the  Exclusive  Restaurants;  provided,
however,  that if PFS for any reason fails to deliver any  Exclusive  Restaurant
Products on a scheduled delivery date which was ordered within the time required
for ordering as described in subsection  5(c) hereof,  the Exclusive  Restaurant
shall be permitted to purchase such Exclusive  Restaurant  Products from another
source or sources to meet its requirements  (but only for such order and not for
any future  orders),  and no such purchase shall be construed as a breach of the
Customer's  obligations  or require  additional  compensation  to PFS.  The term
Exclusive  Restaurants  shall  include all types of  nontraditional  restaurants
including  kiosks,  carts,  delivery units and  restaurants in hotels,  schools,
airports and hospitals but it shall nor include any restaurants owned,  acquired
or built by the Customer which are not Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants.
To the extent the Customer owns,  acquires or builds other concept  restaurants,
they will only be considered  Exclusive  Restaurants under this Agreement if the
Customer  and PFS  specifically  agree in  writing  to  include  them under this
Agreement.



     (b)  For  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the  term  "Exclusive  Restaurant
Products"  shall mean all  proprietary  and  non-proprietary  food (except fresh
chicken and fresh produce), restaurant supplies (including,  without limitation,
all paper  products) and smallwares  currently or in the future  approved by the
respective  Customer for purchase by any Exclusive  Restaurant.  Fresh  chicken,
fresh produce, equipment,  uniforms,  beverages,  promotional items and point of
purchase  materials  shall not be within the definition of Exclusive  Restaurant
Products.  As a result,  PFS shall be an approved  distributor  as  described in
Section 1 above  (but not an  exclusive  distributor)  of all such  nonexclusive
Restaurant   Products  which  are  excluded  from  the  definition  of  Excluded
Restaurant Products.  The above definition of Exclusive Restaurants Products may
be changed only by written agreement of the Customer and PFS.

     (c) For purposes of this Agreement,  the term "Subsidiaries" shall mean the
companies,  partnerships or other entities in which the Customer owns at least a
majority of the total equity  interests.  For purposes of convenience  only, the
numerous  Subsidiaries of the Customer who own the Exclusive Restaurants are not
signing this Agreement. The Customer hereby unconditionally  guarantees the full
performance  of the  obligations  of its  Subsidiaries  who  own  the  Exclusive
Restaurants   during  the  term  of  this  Agreement  and  the  fact  that  such
Subsidiaries  are not  signing  this  Agreement  shall not affect in any way the
rights or obligations of the Customer or PFS under this Agreement.

     (d) A list  of the  Exclusive  Restaurants  on the  Closing  Date  will  be
provided  by the  Customer to PFS on the  Closing  Date,  which list will be the
initial list of the Exclusive Restaurants.  If during the term of this Agreement
the Customer or any of its Subsidiaries  acquires or builds any additional Pizza
Hut,  Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants,  the Customer  shall so notify PFS and such
additional  restaurants shall be added to the list of Exclusive  Restaurants and
become subject to the terms of this  Agreement for the remaining  period of this
Agreement.  If the Customer or any of its  Subsidiaries  sell,  or enters into a
definitive  agreement to sell, any Pizza Hut or Taco Bell Exclusive  Restaurants
during the term of this Agreement,  and the buyer of such Exclusive  Restaurants
is or becomes a Pizza Hut or Taco Bell franchisee, as the case may be, the buyer
of such Exclusive Restaurants shall be required prior to such sale to enter into
a Sales and  Distribution  Agreement  with PFS with  respect  to such  purchased
Exclusive  Restaurants  on  substantially  the same terms and conditions as this
Agreement pursuant to which PFS will continue to be the exclusive distributor of
the  Exclusive   Restaurant   Products  for  such  newly  franchised   Exclusive
Restaurants  for a term  equal to the  remaining  term of this  Agreement.  As a
result,  PFS shall  continue to be the  exclusive  distributor  of the Exclusive
Restaurant  Products  during the remaining  period of the five year term of this
Agreement for any Exclusive  Restaurant sold by the Customer or its Subsidiaries
as a franchised Pizza Hut or Taco Bell  restaurant.  Once such buyer enters into
such a Sales and Distribution  Agreement with PFS with respect to such purchased
Exclusive Restaurants, the Customer shall have no further obligations under this
Agreement  with respect to such  purchased  Exclusive  Restaurants  the Customer
shall not guarantee in any way the payment or other obligations of such buyer to
PFS. If the buyer of such  Exclusive  Restaurant  already owns other  franchised
Pizza Hut or Taco Bell  restaurants,  such other restaurants owned by such buyer
shall not be required to become  Exclusive  Restaurants  subject to the terms of
this  Agreement.  The  requirement  that  refranchised  Pizza  Hut and Taco Bell
Exclusive  Restaurants  must  continue to be  Exclusive  Restaurants  under this
Agreement shall not apply to KFC Exclusive  Restaurants  sold by the Customer or
its  Subsidiaries  during  the  term  of  this  Agreement.  If a  KFC  Exclusive
Restaurant is sold by the Customer or its  Subsidiaries  during the term of this
Agreement and becomes a franchised KFC  restaurant,  the terms of this Agreement
shall not apply to said KFC  restaurant  which will be removed  from the list of
Exclusive Restaurants.





3.   Prices For Exclusive Restaurant Products

     (a) The prices to be paid by the  Exclusive  Restaurants  for the Exclusive
Restaurant  Products  purchased from PFS during the term of this Agreement shall
be equal to (x) the "Landed Cost"  (defined  below) of the Exclusive  Restaurant
Products plus an average mark up described in Exhibit B above as a percentage of
the Landed Cost of all Exclusive Restaurant Products plus (y) the costs of Smart
Sourcing  allocated to the Exclusive  Restaurant  Products and charged to PFS as
described  in Section 7 below.  As  described  in Exhibit B, the mark up will be
different for the different restaurant chains, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC.

     (b) The term  "Landed  Cost" shall mean the F.O.B.  price to  purchase  the
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products from the vendor, net of all related  allowances,
discounts,  rebates, or other payments of any kind from the vendor to PFS or the
Customer (which will be fully passed  through),  plus the actual inbound freight
costs to ship the Exclusive  Restaurant Products to the distribution  centers of
PFS.  Landed Costs shall include the costs incurred by PFS in  transferring  the
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  between  distribution  centers  only  if  these
transfers are for cross docking or break bulk purposes,  where the shipment from
the vendor to the final  distribution  center is  planned  to go  through  other
distribution  centers of PFS.  Any costs  incurred  by PFS in  transferring  the
Exclusive  Restaurant  Products between its distribution  centers as a result of
out of stocks (or equivalent  circumstances),  however,  shall not be considered
Landed Cost but instead  shall be borne by PFS. All cash or early pay  discounts
which are  received by PFS  (whether  negotiated  by Smart  Sourcing or PFS) for
paying the vendors of the Exclusive  Restaurant  Products before the payment due
date  negotiated by Smart Sourcing will not reduce or otherwise be factored into
the  calculation  of the Landed  Costs.  As  described  in Section 7 below,  the
inbound  freight  costs  to ship  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  Products  to PFS's
distribution  centers  will be  managed  by PFS unless  Smart  Sourcing  decides
otherwise  and all of PFS's  costs of such  inbound  freight  will be subject to
review by Smart Sourcing.

     (c) The parties will agree on the specific  method of billing the Exclusive
Restaurants  (e.g.  electronic  billing,  faxed  invoice  or other  format)  and
whenever possible  electronic  billing will be used. The parties understand that
at the time it sets its price  lists PFS will  only be able to  approximate  the
Landed Costs of the Exclusive Restaurant Products sold to each of the respective
Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC Exclusive  Restaurants.  PFS agrees to make a good
faith  estimate of such Landed  Costs at the time it sets its price lists and to
make  appropriate  adjustments  to  subsequent  invoices  to  make  up  for  any
inaccuracies  in the  estimates.  In  addition,  at the  beginning of each month
during the term of this  Agreement  PFS and the Customer  shall  jointly  review
PFS's records relating to the Landed Costs of all Exclusive Restaurants Products
sold  to  each  of the  respective  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and  KFC  Exclusive
Restaurants   during  the  prior  month  and  shall  agree  on  the  appropriate
adjustments to the subsequent  invoices to make up for any  inaccuracies  in the
estimates.  From time to time during the term of this  Agreement,  the  Customer
shall have the right to review all financial  and business  records of PFS which
are  reasonably  requested by the Customer to determine  the Landed Costs of the
Exclusive Restaurant Products sold to the Exclusive Restaurants.  Within 90 days
after  the end of each  calendar  year,  PFS shall  provide  to the  Customer  a
calculation by a major independent  international public accounting firm, agreed
upon by PFS and the Customer,  of the Landed Costs of all  Exclusive  Restaurant
Products sold to each of the  respective  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC Exclusive
Restaurants  during that  calendar  year (which  shall be during the stub period
from the Closing Date to December 31, 1997 for the 1997 calendar  year).  Within
30 days after receipt by the Customer of such  calculation  of the Landed Costs,
PFS or the Customer,  as the case may be, shall make an adjusting payment to the
other party to reflect the difference  between the amounts  actually  charged to
the Customer for the Exclusive  Restaurant Products and the amounts which should
have been charged based on such revised  calculation  of the Landed  Costs.  PFS
shall make available to the independent  accounting  firm all financial  records
necessary to make such calculation. The costs of the independent accounting firm
shal1 be shared equally by the Customer and PFS (50% by each).



     (d) The prices  described in paragraphs  (a), (b) and (c) above shall apply
only to the Exclusive Restaurant Products. For all Restaurant Products which are
not included within the definition of Exclusive Restaurant Products (e.g., fresh
chicken, fresh produce, equipment,  uniforms,  beverages,  promotional items and
point of purchase materials), the prices will be negotiated from time to time by
PFS and the Customer.

     (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the prices of the
Restaurant  Products  which are food,  paper  products  and  similar  restaurant
supplies  purchased by all Pizza Hut restaurants  within the Continental  United
States  (both  Pizza  Hut  Exclusive   Restaurants   and  Pizza  Hut  franchised
restaurants)  will continue  during the term of this  Agreement to be subject to
the 2.5% net pre-tax  profit  margin limit set forth in clause D (ii) of Section
8.3 of the standard Pizza Hut Franchise  Agreement,  a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit C. PFS agrees to  maintain  during the term of this  Agreement
the rebate  program for this 2.5% net pre-tax  profit margin limit for Pizza Hut
restaurants in the same manner as the program has been administered in the past,
including maintaining the current basis for allocating costs (including, without
limitation,  the current  method of charging a  hypothetical  interest cost) and
providing to Pizza Hut and its Pizza Hut  franchisees the audit of all allocated
costs and the rebate  payments  provided  for under  Section 8.3 of the standard
Pizza Hut Franchise Agreement.

4.   Payment Terms for the Restaurant Products.

     (a) The  Customer  shall pay to PFS the purchase  price for the  Restaurant
Products delivered to and accepted by the Customer within 30 calendar days after
the  date  of  invoice  (which  invoice  will  be the  same  day  as  delivery).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Exclusive Restaurant which is not owned by
the Customer  does not pay within the required  payment  terms,  such  Exclusive
Restaurant may be placed by PFS on a cash-on-delivery (C.O.D.) basis or required
to provide  security or collateral for amounts owed to PFS. Payment to PFS shall
be made (i) in the case of the Exclusive  Restaurants owned by the Customer,  by
wire transfer of funds and (ii) in the case of the Exclusive  Restaurants  which
are not owned by the Customer, upon receipt on the due date by PFS of a check in
PFS's lock box or by wire transfer of funds. No interest shall be charged to the
Customer  with  respect to  payments  made on or before the due date.  Early pay
discounts,  if any, will be negotiated by the Customer and PFS from time to time
during the term of this Agreement.

     (b) If any amounts due to PFS are not paid in  accordance  with the payment
terms when due as described in subsection  4(a) above, a service charge shall be
added to the sums  due,  which  charge  shall be equal to the  lesser  of (i) an
interest  charge  determined by applying to the  delinquent  balance an interest
rate equal to the prime rate of interest of Citibank NA. (as published from time
to time) plus 2% per annum or (ii) the amount determined by applying the maximum
rate permitted to be charged under applicable state law.

     (c) If PFS decides to extend  credit to any Exclusive  Restaurant  which is
not  owned by the  Customer,  such  credit  extension  shall be  subject  to the
condition that such franchised  Exclusive  Restaurants  provides (i) evidence of
continued  financial  ability  to pay its debts and (ii)  adequate  security  or
collateral as requested by PFS.

5.   Deliveries and Orders of the Restaurant Products excluding Equipment.

     (a) The  provisions of this Section 5 describe the mechanics and procedures
for ordering and delivering all of the Restaurant Products  distributed and sold
by PFS to the Exclusive Restaurants except for the new and replacement equipment
and  furnishing  which  PFS  sells  to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  through  its
equipment  business and certain  smallware items which are not delivered through
the PFS  distribution  centers  (the "Non  Fleet  Smallwares").  The  Restaurant
Products,  excluding equipment and furnishings and the Non Fleet Smallwares,  is
hereinafter  referred  to as  the  "F & S  Restaurant  Products."  The  specific
mechanics and procedures  for ordering and delivering of equipment,  furnishings
and the Non Fleet  Smallwares  is not  described in this  Agreement  and will be
subject to the agreement of PFS and the Exclusive Restaurants from time to time.


     (b) Deliveries of the F & S Restaurant  Products shall be made twice a week
to the  Exclusive  Restaurants.  If the  Customer  desires to have more than two
deliveries per week for any particular Exclusive Restaurants,  the Customer will
be required to pay an additional charge to PFS in an amount to be negotiated and
agreed upon by PFS and the  Customer.  PFS will offer to the Customer a discount
off the purchase price of the F & S Restaurant Products (in an amount determined
by PFS) if an Exclusive  Restaurant agrees to reduce the number of its scheduled
deliveries to less than two deliveries per week.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Exclusive  Restaurants  which  currently  receive three  deliveries per week
shall continue to receive three deliveries per week without  additional  charge.
PFS  may  deliver  the  ordered  F & S  Restaurant  Products  to  the  Exclusive
Restaurant  at any  time  during  which  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  is open for
business  except  for the black out  periods  described  in  Exhibit D  attached
hereto,  or such other  black out  periods  which are agreed upon by PFS and the
Exclusive Restaurants.  Before the beginning of each such black out period PFS's
drivers must complete their  deliveries  and be out of the Exclusive  Restaurant
and failure to do so will not be considered as an on time  delivery.  PFS agrees
to start deliveries  within one hour (before or after) of the expected  delivery
time that PFS notifies an Exclusive Restaurant. As examples: (i) if the expected
delivery time is 9:00am and PFS's driver starts the delivery  between 8:00am and
10:00am,  the delivery will be on time but (ii) if the expected delivery time is
11:00am  for a Taco Bell  restaurant  and PFS's  driver  starts the  delivery at
11:00am but does not complete the delivery by 11:30am,  the delivery will not be
on time. PFS will notify the Exclusive Restaurants of the expected delivery time
no later than the day preceding the date of delivery.  If the delivery cannot be
started  within  such two hour  period  (one hour  before and one hour after the
scheduled  delivery time),  PFS will notify the Exclusive  Restaurant in advance
but the delivery will still be made the same day. PFS will be allowed to deliver
the F & S Restaurant Products when the Exclusive Restaurant is closed (so called
"key"  deliveries)  only with the prior  written  approval  of an officer of the
Customer (or other  appropriate  level employee of the Exclusive  Restaurants as
designated by the Customer). If PFS's driver sets off an alarm at a key delivery
(other than because the Exclusive  Restaurant  did not provide the correct alarm
code) and there are charges incurred by the Exclusive  Restaurant as a result of
such alarm,  PFS will  reimburse  the  Exclusive  Restaurant  for such  charges.
Delivery days and times will be scheduled so as to cause as little  interruption
to  the  operation  of the  Exclusive  Restaurants  as is  practical  under  the
circumstances.

     (c) Orders by the Customer for the F & S Restaurant  Products  must be made
to PFS no later than 5:00pm on the day which is two days prior to the  scheduled
delivery date; provided,  however,  that for Exclusive Restaurants which are not
close to a  distribution  center of PFS (nor within one day normal  driving time
from PFS's  distribution  center),  PFS may require that these orders be made no
later than 5:00pm on the day which is three days prior to the scheduled delivery
date. If there are any exceptional cases where PFS wishes to receive orders four
days prior to the scheduled  delivery date,  they must be approved in writing by
the local manager of the affected Exclusive  Restaurant.  PFS agrees to continue
to maintain the  "Sourcelink"  electronic  ordering  system (or equivalent up to
date  electronic   ordering   system)  which  currently   allows  the  Exclusive
Restaurants to make electronic orders for the F & S Restaurant Products.  If the
Sourcelink  orders are not  received  within two hours  before the 5:00pm  order
deadline, PFS will call the restaurant before the order deadline in order to try
to  receive  the order.  If the  distribution  center of PFS is still  unable to
receive  an  order  from an  Exclusive  Restaurant  prior  to the  5:00pm  order
deadline,  PFS shall automatically order for the Exclusive  Restaurant the exact
same  order  it  received  for the  same  day of the  previous  week  (excluding
smallwares)  and the  Exclusive  Restaurant  will be  required  to  accept  such
delivery when made.  To the extent the Exclusive  Restaurant is late in ordering
or changes its order after the 5:00pm  order  deadline,  PFS is not  required to
accept such late or changed order. If PFS decides to accept such late or changed
order, PFS may charge the Customer a special delivery charge to be negotiated by
PFS and the Customer.



     (d)  Deliveries  shall  be to such  location  on the  Exclusive  Restaurant
premises as the Exclusive  Restaurants shall reasonably direct. F & S Restaurant
Products shall be deemed  delivered when actually placed in the storage areas of
the Exclusive Restaurant (including the temperature  controlled  compartments in
the case of the  frozen or  refrigerated  F & S  Restaurant  Products)  by PFS's
drivers, as reasonably directed by employees of the Exclusive Restaurant.  PFS's
drivers  will not be  required to stock  shelves or rotate the F & S  Restaurant
Products.  The Exclusive  Restaurants  will be responsible to keep the back door
and aisle free of debris  for PFS's  drivers  to  deliver  the F & S  Restaurant
Products to the storage  areas.  To the extent  practicable,  deliveries  by PFS
shall have unloading priority over all other vendors. The Exclusive  Restaurants
shall assign and make  available  an employee or  employees to accept  delivery,
subject to the terms of paragraph (f) below, of F & S Restaurant  Products,  and
to sign the invoice documenting receipt of the ordered F & S Restaurant Products
(to the extent received and not damaged).

     (e) PFS will only  deliver the F & S Restaurant  Products  specified by the
Customer and shall not  substitute  products for the F & S Restaurant  Products;
provided,  however, that the delivery on an infrequent basis of F & S Restaurant
Products in a different  size than ordered  shall not be considered a substitute
if the total  quantity of the F & S  Restaurant  Products is the amount  ordered
(e.g.,  delivery of two 12 ounce jars instead of four 6 ounce jars).  PFS agrees
to comply with all quality  assurance  programs and  guidelines  required by the
Customer from time to time during the term of this  Agreement to ensure that the
quality of the F & S  Restaurant  Products is  maintained  while the  Restaurant
Product is being stored,  handled and  transported  by PFS. The current  quality
assurance  programs and  guidelines of each of Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC have
been provided to PFS prior to the date hereof.

     (f) If ordered F & S Restaurant  Products  are not  delivered by PFS on the
scheduled delivery date (including key deliveries),  or are delivered damaged or
not  meeting  the  required  specification,  at the  request  of  the  Exclusive
Restaurant,  PFS will make a special  delivery to redeliver the F & S Restaurant
Products  as quickly as  possible.  In  addition,  PFS shall take back all F & S
Restaurant  Products which are damaged or out of specification and give a credit
to the  Exclusive  Restaurant  for  the  purchase  price  charged  by PFS to the
Exclusive Restaurant for that product. If the F & S Restaurant Products were out
of  specification  or the  damages  were  internal  and not  visible to PFS upon
receiving delivery of the F & S Restaurant  Products from the vendor, the vendor
shall be  responsible  to PFS for all  costs  relating  to making  such  special
deliveries  and to take back  damaged or out of  specification  F & S Restaurant
Products.  The Customer and PFS each agree to use their  respective best efforts
to collect such costs from the vendors.

     (g) If the Customer  decides to return any  nonperishable  F & S Restaurant
Products ordered by the Customer and delivered to it within  specification,  not
damaged and on the scheduled  delivery  date,  PFS shall charge the Customer for
taking back such F & S Restaurant  Product an amount equal to 15% of the invoice
price of such F & S Restaurant Product (as a restocking fee).

     (h) Title and risk of loss for the F & S Restaurant  Products  purchased by
the Exclusive  Restaurants from PFS shall pass to the Exclusive Restaurants upon
delivery  by PFS inside the  Exclusive  Restaurant.  In the event that any F & S
Restaurant  Products are delivered and  subsequently  returned or rejected by an
Exclusive  Restaurant,  title  and  risk of loss  shall  revert  to PFS upon the
physical transfer of possession of the F & S Restaurant Products back to PFS.

     (i) The Customer  acknowledges  and agrees that PFS has full  discretion to
direct all deliveries from any  distribution  center which PFS operates,  and to
make  such  changes  to the  routing  process  as PFS,  in its sole  discretion,
determines  appropriate;  provided,  however, that PFS shall notify the affected
Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurants  of any  changes in its  routes.  In
addition,  the  Customer  acknowledges  and agrees  that PFS's  fleet may not be
solely dedicated to the distribution of F & S Restaurant  Products to Pizza Hut,
Taco Bell and KFC restaurants. As a result, PFS's fleet which distribute the F &
S Restaurant Products to Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC restaurants may also carry
other products for delivery to other customers  (including  competing 


customers)  on the  same  routes  so long  as  they  do not in any  way  damage,
contaminate  or adversely  affect the quality of the F & S  Restaurant  Products
during the delivery or adversely affect deliveries to the Exclusive Restaurants.

     (j) Management of the inventory levels in the  distribution  centers of PFS
will be the  responsibility  of PFS except  that PFS agrees that it will not buy
any F & S Restaurant  Products  which PFS expects to keep in inventory  for more
than 60 days without the consent of the  Customer.  PFS agrees to provide to the
extent practicable weekly information to the Customer by distribution  center of
its inventory levels of the F & S Restaurant Products. PFS shall not be required
to buy promotional  items or new or test market F & S Restaurant  Products until
it first receives a firm  commitment  from the Customer and, in the case of such
promotional items or new or test market F & S Restaurant  Products which are for
sale to  franchised  Pizza  Hut.  Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants,  until it first
receives a firm  commitment from such  franchisees to purchase such  promotional
items or new or test market F & S Restaurant Products.  If any promotional items
or any  other F & S  Restaurant  Products  which are  unique  to the  Customer's
operations are purchased by PFS based on the Customer's projections and such F &
S  Restaurant  Products  remain in PFS's  inventory  for more than 90 days after
Customer's  projected need,  however,  PFS may charge the Customer a storage and
handling charge equal to 1% of the Landed Cost of such F & S Restaurant Products
per month until such F & S Restaurant  Products are  delivered to the  Customer.
Each month during the term of this  Agreement the Customer and PFS shall meet to
review the amount of promotional items or other unique F & S Restaurant Products
which  have  remained  in  inventory  for  more  than 90 days  after  Customer's
projected need and use their  respective best efforts to agree on a schedule for
delivery of such excess  inventory to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  as quickly as
possible and in any event not more than an additional 90 days after such initial
90 day period. At the end of such additional 90 day period,  PFS may require the
Customer to either order such excess  inventory or direct PFS to dispose of such
excess inventory at the Customer's  cost.  Unless either (i) an F & S Restaurant
Product is  discontinued  by the Customer or (ii) the  Customer  approves an AIP
(authorization for inventory  purchase) for F & S Restaurant Products ordered by
franchised  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  restaurants,  the Customer shall not be
responsible  to PFS for any  storage  charges  or  purchase  commitments  of any
franchised Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC restaurants.

     (k) In the event the Customer decides to recall any Restaurant Product, PFS
agrees to  assist  the  Customer,  to the  extent  reasonably  requested  by the
Customer,  in  its  recall  efforts,  including,  without  limitation,  promptly
assisting the Customer in determining  exactly which Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC
restaurants may need to be notified of a product recall.  Unless such recall was
needed as a result of any action or omission to act by PFS, the Customer (or the
vendor at the Customer's direction) shall reimburse PFS for all additional costs
incurred by PFS (e.g.,  labor, fuel, etc.) in such recall efforts; to the extent
such recall was requested by the Customer.

     (l) PFS warrants that all F & S Restaurant Products to be distributed by it
to Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC restaurants shall be inspected,  handled, stored,
shipped and sold by PFS in strict compliance with all applicable (i) federal and
state  laws (ii)  rules and  regulations  of all  governmental  agencies  having
jurisdiction  and (iii) municipal  ordinances.  Upon its receipt of any citation
issued by any  governmental  or regulatory  authority  which might result in the
interruption  in PFS's  distribution  service to any Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC
restaurant  customers,  PFS shall  promptly  notify  such  customers  who may be
affected.

     (m) PFS  agrees to use its best  efforts to take and  respond to  emergency
calls from the Exclusive  Restaurants for delivery of F & S Restaurant Products.
PFS and the Exclusive  Restaurants will agree upon the additional  charges to be
paid to PFS for special deliveries needed to respond to such emergency calls.



6.   Minimum Service Levels.

     (a) PFS agrees to maintain  during the term of this  Agreement,  on a total
basis for all  Exclusive  Restaurants  serviced  by PFS,  each of the  following
monthly service levels:

          (i) The actual number of Perfect Orders  (defined  below) of the F & S
     Restaurant Products which are delivered to the Exclusive Restaurants during
     each month as a percentage  of the total number of  deliveries of the F & S
     Restaurant Products ordered shall not be less than 85%; and

          (ii) The number of deliveries of the F & S Restaurant  Products during
     any month which are on time (within one hour before or after the  scheduled
     delivery  time as  described  in Section 5(b) above) shall not be less than
     80%.

     The  above  service  levels  shall be  measured  on a total  basis  for all
distribution  centers  of PFS  together  (not  separately  for  each  individual
distribution  center).  Key deliveries  will not be factored in any way into the
measurement of on time deliveries described in (ii) above.

     If PFS fails to  achieve  either of such  service  levels  during any three
months of any calendar  year during the term of this  Agreement  (commencing  in
1998),  this  failure  shall  constitute  a  material  breach of this  Agreement
entitling  the  Customer  to  terminate  this  Agreement  upon  notice to PFS as
described in Section 10 below.

     (b) PFS  agrees to  maintain  during  the term of this  Agreement,  for the
Exclusive Restaurants serviced by each distribution center of PFS, the following
monthly service level:

          The actual number of Perfect  Orders of the F & S Restaurant  Products
     which are delivered to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  from that  distribution
     center  during each month as a percentage of the total number of deliveries
     of the F & S Restaurant Products ordered shall not be less than 75%.

     The above service level shall be measured  separately for each distribution
center of PFS which delivers to the Exclusive Restaurants.

     If PFS fails to achieve the above  service level during any three months of
any calendar year during the term of this Agreement  (commencing  in 1998),  the
Customer  shall  have the  right  upon  notice to PFS to  remove  the  Exclusive
Restaurants  which were  serviced by such  distribution  center from the list of
Exclusive Restaurants.  As a result, if the Customer gives such notice, PFS will
lose the  exclusive  rights  under  this  Agreement  to  deliver  the  Exclusive
Restaurant  Products to the Exclusive  Restaurants  which were customers of such
underperforming distribution center.

     (c) The term "Perfect  Order" shall mean a delivery where 100% of the cases
of the delivered F & S Restaurant  Products are (i) exactly the items ordered by
the Exclusive Restaurant, (ii) not damaged and (iii) within specification.

     If PFS does not deliver a F & S Restaurant  Product  because the vendor was
not able to supply a F & S Restaurant Product ordered by PFS, such failure shall
not be counted  against the service  levels  described in paragraphs (a) and (b)
above.



     Promptly  after the end of each month PFS shall  notify the Customer of its
service levels  described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above for that month and, at
the request of the Customer, PFS shall make available to the Customer all of its
records which  support its  determination  of the service  levels and such other
records reasonably requested by the Customer.

7.   Smart Sourcing.

     (a) PFS and Smart Sourcing intend that their  relationship will be based on
a spirit of cooperation  where they will support each other  whenever  possible.
During  the term of this  Agreement,  Smart  Sourcing  will  negotiate  with the
vendors all price and other purchase terms for all Restaurant Products which are
distributed  and sold by PFS to any Exclusive  Restaurants  and such prices will
constitute,  together  with inbound  freight,  the Landed Costs of the Exclusive
Restaurant  Products as described in Section 3 above.  The  commitment by PFS to
exclusively  buy under terms and  agreements  negotiated  by Smart  Sourcing all
Restaurant  Products  sold  to  the  Exclusive  Restaurants  is  subject  to the
exception that if PFS is able to buy such Restaurant  Products for the Exclusive
Restaurants  on terms more  favorable to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  than those
negotiated by Smart Sourcing,  PFS will notify the Customer of such better terms
and offer the Customer the opportunity to buy such  Restaurant  Products on such
better terms  negotiated by PFS. For the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell or KFC  franchised
restaurants  which are customers of PFS,  other than the  Exclusive  Restaurants
which are franchised.  PFS shall be required to purchase the Restaurant Products
sold to such franchised Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants  under the terms and
agreements which are negotiated by Smart Sourcing for the Exclusive  Restaurants
owned by the Customer but PFS may, but it shall not be required to, purchase the
Restaurant  Products sold to such  franchised KFC  restaurants  under prices and
other terms which are negotiated by Smart  Sourcing.  As a result,  PFS shall be
committed to exclusively  buy through Smart Sourcing terms and agreements all of
the  Restaurant  Products  it  sells  to  franchised  Pizza  Hut and  Taco  Bell
restaurants  but PFS shall not be committed  to  exclusively  buy through  Smart
Sourcing  terms all of the  Restaurant  Products it sells to the  franchised KFC
restaurants which are not Exclusive  Restaurants.  Smart Sourcing shall have the
right  to  allocate  among  two or  more  vendors  the  total  purchases  of the
Restaurant  Products  purchased  under terms and agreements  negotiated by Smart
Sourcing.  In addition,  Smart Sourcing shall have the right to determine  which
vendors will supply the Restaurant Products purchased under terms and agreements
negotiated by Smart Sourcing to each of the respective  distribution  centers of
PFS. The Customer  agrees that the  "Weighted  Average  Payment  Term"  (defined
below) for the Restaurant  Products purchased during any calendar quarter by PFS
and negotiated through Smart Sourcing will be no less than 15 calendar days. For
purposes of this Agreement,  the term "Weighted Average Payment Term" shall mean
the average  number of days after invoice which the suppliers of the  Restaurant
Products  purchased  through Smart Sourcing require for payment by PFS, weighted
by the Dollar volumes for the different items of the Restaurant Products and the
different  required  terms for payment.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  Smart
Sourcing may negotiate  payment terms for Restaurant  Products  purchased by PFS
for sale to the  Exclusive  Restaurants  owned by the Customer  (not  franchised
Exclusive  Restaurants) which result in a Weighted Average Payment Term for such
Restaurant  Products  below 15 calendar  days so long as there is an  equivalent
reduction in the  receivable  payment terms for such  Exclusive  Restaurants  to
fully  compensate PFS for paying earlier than a Weighted Average Payment Term of
15 days.  As described  in Section 3(b) above,  PFS shall be entitled to receive
all early pay  discounts and such  discounts  shall not reduce the amount of the
Landed  Costs.  Smart  Sourcing  shall  have the  right to  negotiate  early pay
discounts  which PFS will receive so long as the Weighted  Average Payment Term,
after taking into account such  discounts,  is not less than 15 calendar days as
described above.  Smart Sourcing agrees that PFS shall have the right to receive
a total amount of early pay  discounts  equal to at least  $10,600,000  per year
(commencing in 1998), without any reduction in the Weighted Average Payment Term
below 15 days.  If PFS does not have the right to receive  at least  $10,600,000
early pay discounts  during any calendar year during the term of this  Agreement
(commencing in 1998) without reducing the Weighted Average Payment Term below 15
days,  Smart Sourcing  shall pay to PFS the amount of such  shortfall  within 30
days after the end of such  calendar  year.  In  addition,  Smart  Sourcing  may
negotiate  payment terms which  include an interest  charge for late payments by
PFS to the  supplier  equal to the lesser of: (i) the prime rate of  interest of
Citibank  N.A.  (as  


published  from  time to  time)  plus 2% per  annum  or (ii)  the  maximum  rate
permitted to be charged under applicable State law.

     (b) Except as  described  below,  all  inbound  freight  of the  Restaurant
Products to the  distribution  centers of PFS,  including  the  selection of the
carriers  and the  negotiation  of the freight  charges,  will be managed by and
incurred  by PFS as  part  of its  distribution  services  provided  under  this
Agreement  (without any additional  fee to the Customer).  PFS agrees to use its
best efforts to reduce its inbound freight costs and whenever  possible  arrange
for deliveries of the Restaurant Products in full truckloads.  If Smart Sourcing
requests,  PFS shall be  required  to obtain  Smart  Sourcing's  approval of all
deliveries  which are less than full  truckloads;  provided,  however that Smart
Sourcing will bear all  additional  costs to comply with this approval  process.
PFS shall make  available to Smart  Sourcing,  at such intervals as requested by
Smart Sourcing,  all of the records of PFS relating to its inbound freight costs
for the Restaurant Products. Smart Sourcing shall have the right at any time and
in its  discretion to require PFS to receive prior  approval from Smart Sourcing
for all inbound  freight  charges before they are incurred;  provided,  however,
that Smart Sourcing will bear all additional  costs to comply with this approval
process.  In addition,  Smart Sourcing shall also have the right at any time and
in its discretion to take over the inbound freight function from PFS,  including
the selection of carriers and negotiation of rates.

     (c) In addition to and separate  from PFS's  appointment  as the  exclusive
distributor of the Exclusive Restaurant Products to the Exclusive Restaurants as
described in Section 2 hereof, the Customer agrees that. during the term of this
Agreement,  Smart Sourcing will not allow another  distributor other than PFS to
distribute  the  Restaurant  Products  to  any  Pizza,  Hut,  Taco  Bell  or KFC
franchised  restaurant within the Continental United States under the prices and
other purchase terms  negotiated by Smart Sourcing.  In other words, in addition
to the Exclusive Restaurants,  PFS will also be the exclusive distributor during
the  term  of this  Agreement  for  franchised  Pizza  Hut,  Taco  Bell  and KFC
restaurants which purchase the Restaurant Products through Smart Sourcing terms.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  if KFC National  Purchasing  Cooperative,  Inc.
purchases,  or arranges for the purchase of, Restaurant  Products for franchised
KFC  restaurants  under  prices and other  purchase  terms  negotiated  by Smart
Sourcing,  the  provisions of this paragraph (c) shall not apply with respect to
the  Restaurant  Products so purchased and the  distributor  of such  Restaurant
Products may be a firm other than PFS.

     (d) The Customer  shall charge PFS a fee for  providing the services of its
Smart Sourcing division equal to 1/2 % of the F.O.B. price of the vendors of the
Restaurant  Products  which  are  purchased  by PFS under  terms and  agreements
negotiated by Smart Sourcing.  PFS shall pass on this fee to its Pizza Hut, Taco
Bell and KFC customers  (including the Exclusive  Restaurants and all franchised
restaurants)  within the Continental United States, as described in Section 3(a)
in the case of Exclusive Restaurant Products sold to the Exclusive  Restaurants.
The  proportion  of the total Smart  Sourcing  costs which are  allocated to the
Restaurant  Products  sold  to  the  Exclusive  Restaurants  cannot  exceed  the
percentage of the total purchases by PFS of all Restaurant  Products under terms
and  agreements  negotiated by Smart  Sourcing which is represented by the total
purchases by PFS of the Restaurant  Products sold to the Exclusive  Restaurants.
Promptly  after the end of each  month  during  the term of this  Agreement  the
Customer  shall send to PFS an invoice for its Smart Sourcing fee for that month
which invoice will be due within 15 days after receipt. PFS shall have the right
to require Smart Sourcing to provide evidence reasonably acceptable to PFS which
supports Smart Sourcing's calculation of its fee.



8.   Continuation of Equipment Business

     Although  the  equipment  products  of PFS  are not  part of the  Exclusive
Restaurant  Products sold to the Exclusive  Restaurants,  PFS currently plans to
maintain the equipment business and to make the equipment products available for
purchase by the Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC  restaurant  customers of PFS. PFS
agrees to provide to the  Customer  and its other  Pizza Hut,  Taco Bell and KFC
franchised  restaurant  customers at least six months prior notice before either
(i) any significant  reduction by PFS in the distribution services it offers for
equipment products or (ii) PFS sells the equipment business. The Customer agrees
to  provide  to PFS at least  six  months  prior  notice  before  the  Exclusive
Restaurants  owned by the Customer purchase in any calendar year during the term
of this Agreement more than 20% of their total  purchases of equipment  products
from companies other than PFS.

9.   Term

     This  Agreement  shall not apply or go into effect  until the closing  date
(the  "Closing  Date") of the currently  proposed  sale of PFS by PepsiCo,  Inc.
(estimated to occur at the end of June,  1997).  This  Agreement  shall be for a
term of five years commencing on the Closing Date, unless earlier  terminated as
provided in Section 10 hereof.  This  Agreement  shall  automatically  terminate
after such term unless the Customer and PFS expressly agree in writing to extend
such term for an additional period.

10.  Termination

     This  Agreement  may be  terminated  prior to the end of the  term  hereof,
without  affecting the rights or obligations of either party with respect to the
Restaurant Products already delivered by PFS, as follows:

     (a) In the event that the other party  breaches any  material  term of this
Agreement,  and such  breach  shall  remain  unremedied  for a period  of thirty
calendar days after written notice of such breach from the non-breaching  party,
the non-breaching  party may terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the
breaching party.

     (b) If PFS is in material  breach of this Agreement for failure to maintain
either of the  service  levels  described  in Section  6(a) hereof for any three
months of any calendar  year during the term of this  Agreement  (commencing  in
1998),  the Customer may terminate  this agreement upon written notice to PFS at
any time  during  the 90 day  period  after the end the third  month in which it
failed to meet such service level.

     (c) In the event that either party (i) makes an assignment  for the benefit
of its creditors,  (ii) has a petition  initiating a proceeding under applicable
bankruptcy  laws filed  against it and such  petition is not set aside within 60
days after such  filing,  (iii) files any  voluntary  petition  for  bankruptcy,
liquidation or dissolution or has a receiver, trustee or custodian appointed for
all or part of its  assets or (iv)  seeks to make an  adjustment  settlement  or
extension  of its  debt  with its  creditors  generally,  the  other  party  may
terminate this Agreement upon written notice to such party.

11.  Insurance

     Each  party  shall  obtain and  maintain  comprehensive  general  liability
insurance  (including  products  liability)  in  amounts  equal to at least  Ten
Million Dollars ($10,000,000)  combined single limit for death, personal injury,
and property  damage,  and worker's  compensation  insurance as required by law.
Each party shall file with the other certificates  evidencing such insurance and
shall  promptly  pay all  premiums on said  policies as and when the same become
due. In addition,  said policies shall contain a provision requiring thirty days
prior written notice to the other of any proposed cancellation or termination of
insurance.  The  insurance  


requirements set forth above are minimum coverage requirements and are not to be
construed in any way as a limitation of liability under this Agreement.

12.  Trademarks

     (a) Neither the Customer nor PFS shall acquire any right or interest in the
trademarks or trade names of the other party pursuant to this Agreement.  Except
as specifically set forth herein neither the Customer nor PFS shall use the name
of the  other or any part of any  trademark  or trade  name of the  other  party
without the express written permission of such other party.

     (b) PFS may continue to display the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC trademarks
on its  delivery  fleet in the same  manner  as such  trademarks  are  currently
displayed. Any change in the way such trademarks are displayed on PFS's delivery
fleet shall  require the prior written  approval of the  Customer.  The Customer
may, in its  discretion,  either (i) require PFS, at the Customer's cost (unless
PFS is refurbishing  its fleet pursuant to a normal  maintenance  schedule),  to
change the way the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  trademarks are displayed on the
fleet  of PFS in order to  update  the  logos  for any  changes  in the way such
trademarks are generally displayed by the Customer or (ii) require PFS to remove
such trademarks from its fleet at any time, at the Customer's  cost. PFS further
agrees that, without thc Customer's prior written consent, PFS's delivery trucks
which display the Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC  trademarks  will not be used for
any  deliveries  to any customers of PFS other than Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC
restaurants.  PFS shall not be  required,  however,  to  continue to display the
Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC trademarks on its delivery fleet and shall be free,
in its  discretion,  to remove such  trademarks at any time. PFS agrees that its
delivery fleet which deliver the Restaurant Products to any Pizza Hut, Taco Bell
or KFC restaurants  (the Exclusive  Restaurants or any franchised Pizza Hut Taco
Bell  or KFC  restaurants)  shall  not  display  the  trademarks  of  any  other
restaurant customer of PFS.

13.  Confidentiality by PFS

     (a) PFS acknowledges the Customer's need to maintain the confidentiality of
certain  proprietary   information   disclosed  by  the  Customer  to  PFS.  All
information  communicated  by the Customer to PFS which contains  vendor pricing
information  negotiated by Smart  Sourcing,  marketing and restaurant  data, new
product information or other information specifically relating to the Customer's
business  shall be kept  confidential  and not used or  disclosed  by PFS to any
third party;  provided,  however, that the foregoing restriction shall not apply
to  the  Landed  Cost  information  which  PFS is  required  to  provide  to the
independent international public accounting firm as described in subsection 3(c)
hereof (but only to the extent so provided). Such confidential information shall
not include  information (i) which becomes generally known to the public through
no  disclosure  by PFS,  (ii)  which  PFS can  show  was  known  by it  prior to
disclosure  to it by the  Customer  or  (iii)  which  is  required  by law to be
disclosed.  PFS shall  inform its  employees of the  confidential  nature of all
information  provided by the  Customers  which is  confidential  pursuant to the
terms of this  Section 13 and PFS shall be fully  responsible  for any breach by
its employees of the terms of this Section 13.

     (b)  Each  party  hereto  agree  to  keep  the  terms  of  this   Agreement
confidential  and not disclose them to any third party without the prior written
consent of the other  parties  hereto,  except to the extent such  disclosure is
required by law.

14.  Indemnity

     (a) PFS shall  indemnify and hold the Customer,  as well as the  Customer's
parents,  subsidiaries,  affiliates,  successors and assigns,  and each of their
respective officers, directors and employees,  harmless from and against any and
all loss, liability,  claims,  demands or suits (including,  without limitation,
reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) which arise out of:


          (i) the breach of any of the representations, warranties or agreements
     made by PFS in  this  Agreement  (including,  without  limitation,  damages
     caused by any violations of law by PFS or recalls caused by PFS); or

          (ii) the warehousing, delivery, storage, handling or transportation of
     any Restaurant Products while under the care, custody, or control of PFS.

     (b)  The  Customer   shall   indemnify  PFS,  as  well  as  PFS's  parents,
subsidiaries,  affiliates,  successors and assigns, and each of their respective
officers,  directors and employees,  harmless from and against any and all loss,
liability, claims, demands or suits (including,  without limitation,  reasonable
attorneys' fees and expenses) which arise out of:

          (i) the breach of any of the representations, warranties or agreements
     made by the Customer in this Agreement; or

          (ii) the  operations or business of the Customer  (including,  without
     limitation, Smart Sourcing) and the Exclusive Restaurants.

15.  No Franchise or Agency

     Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to make either party the agent or
representative of the other party for any purpose  whatsoever.  Nothing provided
in this  Agreement  shall be deemed to grant either party any right or authority
to  assume,  create or expand  any  obligation  or  responsibility,  express  or
implied,  on behalf of or in the name of the other  party,  or to bind the other
party in any manner or matter whatsoever.  Neither party to this Agreement shall
have any authority to employ any person as agent or employee for or on behalf of
the other party to this Agreement for any purpose.  It is the express  intention
of the parties  that each party hold the other party  harmless  from and against
any and all claims, liability and expense arising out of any unauthorized act of
its respective employees and agents.

16.  General Provisions

     (a) Appointment of Executive Officers of Customer.  During the term of this
Agreement,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and KFCC  shall  notify PFS in writing of the
names of the  executive  officers who shall have the authority to bind all three
companies,  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFCC and act on behalf of the Customer,  in
connection  with any  matter  relating  to this  Agreement,  including,  without
limitation,  amending the terms of this  Agreement as described in Section 16(e)
below.

     (b) Dispute  Resolution.  Each of the Customer and PFS shall appoint one or
more  employees  who will meet with each other on a regular  basis to review the
performance by each party pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.  The Customer
and PFS shall each  appoint  an  executive  officer  to meet for the  purpose of
resolving any claim,  dispute and/or  controversy  arising out of or relating to
the performance of this Agreement. If the dispute is not resolved by negotiation
within  thirty (30) days,  the parties  shall  endeavor to settle the dispute by
mediation  under the then  current  Center For Public  Resources  ("CPR")  Model
Procedure  for Mediation of Business  Disputes.  The neutral third party will be
selected from the CPR panel of neutrals,  with the assistance of CPR, unless the
parties  agree  otherwise.  In the event that the  parties are  unsuccessful  in
resolving the dispute via  mediation,  the parties agree promptly to resolve any
such claim, dispute and/or controversy through binding confidential  arbitration
conducted in Louisville,  Kentucky, in accordance with the then current rules of
the American Arbitration Association ("AAA"). The parties irrevocably consent to
such jurisdiction for purposes of the arbitration,  and judgement may be entered
thereon in any state or federal  court in the same manner as if the parties were
residents of the state of federal  district in which said judgement is 


sought to be entered.  The arbitrator  shall not make any award or decision that
is not consistent with  applicable  law. In any action between the parties,  the
prevailing party in such action shall recover its costs and expenses,  including
reasonable attorney fees, from the non-prevailing party. All applicable statutes
of limitations and defenses based upon the passage of time shall be tolled while
the requirements of this Section 16 (b) are being followed.

     (c) Access to Distribution Centers. During the term of this Agreement,  the
Customer  shall have the right to  inspect  at any time  during the term of this
Agreement the distribution  centers,  all delivery trucks and any other facility
of PFS which carry the Restaurant Products.

     (d)  Assignment.  This  Agreement  shall be binding upon all of the parties
hereto and upon all of their respective heirs, successors and permitted assigns.
The Customer  understands  that PFS is currently in the process of being sold by
PepsiCo,  Inc.  PFS shall have the right to assign  its  rights and  obligations
under this Agreement to any corporation, partnership, firm or other entity which
buys  substantially  all of PFS's assets and upon such assignment (i) such buyer
shall assume all of PFS's obligations under this Agreement and take the place of
PFS for all purposes of this  Agreement  and (ii)  PepsiCo,  Inc.  shall have no
further  obligations  hereunder.  Except for the permitted  assignment by PFS as
described  above,   this  Agreement  shall  not,   however,   be  assignable  or
transferable,  in whole or in part,  by any party except upon the express  prior
written consent of all of the other parties.  Any attempt to assign or otherwise
transfer this Agreement or any rights or  obligations  hereunder in violation of
the foregoing shall be void.

     (e) Amendment. This Agreement shall not be amended except in writing signed
by all parties hereto.

     (f)  Notices.  All  notices,  demands,  consents  or  other  communications
required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and personally  delivered or
sent by overnight air courier,  addressed as follows: if to the Customer to each
of (i) Pizza Hut,  Inc.,  14841  Dallas  Parkway,  Dallas,  Texas  75240,  Attn:
President,  (ii) Taco Bell Corp.,  17901 Von Karman,  Irvine,  California 92714,
Attn:  President  and (iii) KFC  Corporation,  1441 Gardiner  Lane,  Louisville,
Kentucky  40213,  Attn:  President;  and if to PFS, to PFS 14841 Dallas Parkway,
Dallas, Texas 75240, Attn: President;  or to such other address as may hereafter
be furnished in writing to the other party in the manner  described  above shall
be deemed to have been effected and received as of the date hand delivered or as
of he date received if sent by overnight air courier.

     (g) Force  Majeure.  No party shall be  responsible  for delays or defaults
under this  Agreement if such delay or default is  occasioned  by war,  strikes,
fire, an act of God or other causes beyond such party's control.

     (h) Waiver. No provision,  requirement,  or breach of this Agreement may be
waived by any party  except in writing.  If any party fails to enforce any right
or remedy available under this Agreement, that failure shall not be construed as
a waiver of any right or remedy with  respect to any other  breach or failure by
the other  parties.  If PFS fails to maintain  the service  levels  described in
Sections 6 hereof  during any three months of any calendar  year during the term
of this  Agreement  (commencing  in 1998) and the Customer does not exercise its
right to terminate this Agreement as described in Section 10(b) hereof within 90
days after the third such month, the Customer shall waive any right to terminate
this  Agreement  with respect to the low service levels during such three months
but shall not waive any right to  terminate  this  Agreement  as a result of low
service levels during any months after such three months.

     (i)  Captions.  The captions  used herein are inserted  only as a matter of
convenience and for reference and in no way define, limit, or describe the scope
or the intent of any section or paragraph hereof.


     (j)  Governing  Law and Forum.  This  Agreement  shall in all  respects  be
construed in accordance with and governed by the  substantive  laws of the State
of Kentucky without giving effect to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.

     (k)  Severability.  If any one or more of the provisions  contained in this
Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid,  illegal, or unenforceable
in any respect,  such  invalidity,  illegality,  or  unenforceability  shall not
affect any other provision  hereof,  and this Agreement shall be construed as if
such invalid,  illegal,  or  unenforceable  provision  had never been  contained
herein.

     (l) Other Documents.  The terms,  conditions and provisions of any invoice,
billing  statement,  confirmation,  or other  similar  document  relating to the
services  rendered  in  connection  with this  Agreement  shall be  subject  and
subordinate  to the terms,  provisions  and conditions of this Agreement and, in
the event of a conflict between the terms, conditions and provisions of any such
document and of this  Agreement,  the terms,  conditions  and provisions of this
Agreement shall govern.

     (m)  Survival  of  Obligations.  The  obligations  of any party  under this
Agreement, which by their nature would continue beyond expiration or termination
of this Agreement, including, without limitation,  indemnification by such party
as provided in Section 14 hereof, shall survive the expiration or termination of
this Agreement.

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of
the date first set forth above.

                                        PFS,  a  division of PepsiCo, Inc.

                                        By:  /s/
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Pizza Hut, Inc.

                                        By:  /s/ David Novak
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             David Novak
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer

                                        Taco Bell Corp.

                                        By:  /s/ John Antico
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             John Antioco
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer

                                        Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation

                                        By:  /s/ David Novak
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             David Novak
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer

                                      Kentucky Fried Chicken of California, Inc.

                                        By:  /s/ David Novak
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             David Novak
                                             President, Chief Executive Officer

  



                        NICARAGUA S.A.
                        PAKISTAN
                        PANAMA
                        PARAGUAY
                        PERU
                        PHILIPPINES
                        POLAND
                        PUERTO RICO
                        QATAR
                        RUSSIA
                        SAIPAN
                        SAUDI ARABIA
                        SINGAPORE
                        SOUTH AFRICA
                        SOUTH KOREA
                        SPAIN
                        SWEDEN
                        TAIWAN
                        THAILAND
                        TRINIDAD
                        TURKEY
                        TURKS & CAICOS
                        UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
                        UNITED KINGDOM
                        URUGUAY



                                                                       Exhibit B

                               Distributor Mark Up


Exclusive Restaurants                   Percentage Mark Up Over Landed Cost
- ---------------------                   -----------------------------------

KFC Restaurants                                         10.8%
Pizza Hut Restaurants                                   12.3%
Taco Bell Restaurants                                   10.1%




                                                                       Exhibit C


8.3      Product Rebate.

         A. For the purpose of this Section 8.3, the term "Company" includes any
business entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, PHI.

         B. Franchisee may purchase from Company, upon such terms as Company may
offer, such items as Company may offer for sale to Franchisee.

         C.  Within 4  months  after  the end of each  fiscal  year of  Company,
Company  will  determine  its rate of gross  profit and its rate of net  pre-tax
profit attributable to sales by Company to all its Pizza Hut franchisees of only
food,  paper  products,  and similar  restaurant  supplies (but not of any other
items, including, without limitation,  nonfood items manufactured by Company and
other  items  such  as  furnishing,  interior  and  exterior  decor  items,  and
equipment) for the fiscal year.

         In making this determination,  the sales, gross profit, and net pre-tax
profit  for  all  entities  will be  combined  (without  considering  accounting
eliminations) into one financial  statement,  and Company's cost will be reduced
by any cash discounts that Company received from its vendors.

         D.    If -

               i) the rate of gross profit as determined by Company exceeds 14%,
               or

               ii) the rate of net  pre-tax  profit  as  determined  by  Company
               exceeds 2.5%,

then in either event Company will,  within 30 days thereafter,  pay to Pizza Hut
franchisees  entitled thereto,  in the manner provided in paragraph E. below, an
amount equal to the excess as determined under either i) or ii) above, whichever
is greater;  provided,  however,  that the aggregate  payment  called for herein
shall in no event  exceed  an  amount  equal to  Company's  net  pre-tax  profit
attributable to sales of food, paper products,  and similar restaurant  supplies
by Company to all its Pizza Hut franchisees for said fiscal year.

         E.  Company  will pay to each  Pizza  Hut  franchisee  its share of the
amount  determined to be payable by Company under paragraphs C. and D. above, in
the form of a cash payment or credit, at the option of the franchisee,  pursuant
to procedures  established  by Company.  The share of each Pizza Hut  franchisee
will be in an amount  which  bears  the same  relationship  to the total  amount
determined  to be payable by Company  under  paragraphs  C. and D. above as such
franchisee's  gross purchases from Company of food, paper products,  and similar
restaurant  supplies  bear to gross  purchases of such items from Company by all
franchisees;  the parties expressly including,  without limitation,  product mix
variations,  delivery and service charges,  regional price variations,  or other
price variations.


                                                                       Exhibit D

Exclusive Restaurants       Black Out Periods
- ---------------------       --------------------

KFC Restaurants              11:30am to 1:00pm and 5:30pm to 7:00pm - All Days

Pizza Hut Restaurants        11:30am to 1:00pm - Monday to Friday
                             5:30pm to 7:30pm - Friday and Saturday

Taco Bell Restaurants        11:30am to 1:00pm and 5:30pm to 7:00pm - All Days


                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.7

                                     TRICON
                      DIRECTORS DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

                                

ARTICLE I:  INTRODUCTION AND ESTABLISHMENT..................................1


ARTICLE II:  DEFINITIONS....................................................2

         2.1  Account.......................................................2
         2.2  Annual Retainer...............................................2
         2.3  Beneficiary...................................................2
         2.4  Code..........................................................2
         2.5  Company.......................................................2
         2.6  Deferral Subaccount...........................................2
         2.7  Director......................................................2
         2.8  Effective Date................................................2
         2.9  Election Form.................................................2
         2.10  ERISA........................................................2
         2.11  Fair Market Value............................................2
         2.12  Initial Retainer.............................................3
         2.13  Participant..................................................3
         2.14  Plan.........................................................3
         2.15  Plan Administrator...........................................3
         2.16  Plan Year....................................................3
         2.17  Termination of Service.......................................3
         2.18  Tricon.......................................................3
         2.19   Tricon Group................................................3
         2.20  Valuation Date...............................................3

ARTICLE III:  PARTICIPATION.................................................4

         3.1  Eligibility to Participate....................................4
         3.2  Automatic Deferral............................................4
         3.3  Elective Deferral.............................................4
         3.4  Period of Deferral............................................5
         3.5  Beneficiary Designation.......................................5

ARTICLE IV:  INTEREST OF PARTICIPANTS.......................................6

         4.1  Accounting for Participants' Interests........................6
         4.2  Vesting of a Participant's Account............................7
         4.3  Distribution of a Participant's Account.......................7
         4.4  Acceleration of Payment for Certain Hardships.................8

ARTICLE V:  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR..............................................9

         5.1  Members.......................................................9
         5.2  Action........................................................9
         5.3  Right and Duties..............................................9
         5.4  Compensation, Indemnity and Liability........................10
         5.5  Taxes........................................................10

                                      -i-

ARTICLE VI:  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.....................................11

         6.1  Amendments...................................................11
         6.2  Termination of Plan..........................................11

ARTICLE VII:  MISCELLANEOUS................................................12

         7.1  Limitation on Participant's Rights...........................12
         7.2 Unfunded Obligation of the Company............................12
         7.3  Receipt or Release...........................................12
         7.4  Governing Law................................................12
         7.5  Gender, Tense, and Headings..................................12
         7.6  Successors and Assigns; Nonalienation of Benefits............12
         7.7  Facility of Payment..........................................13

APPENDIX



                                      -ii-

                                    ARTICLE I

                                  INTRODUCTION

     Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc. (the "Company") has established the Tricon
Directors Deferred  Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to permit eligible members of
the Company's Board of Directors to receive  certain  compensation on a deferred
basis.

     Except as otherwise  provided,  this  document  sets forth the terms of the
Plan as in effect on October 7, 1997. As of that date, it specifies the group of
individuals eligible to have compensation  deferred, the procedures for electing
to defer  compensation and the Plan's  provisions for maintaining and paying out
amounts that have been deferred.

     The Plan is unfunded and unsecured.  Amounts  deferred by an individual are
an obligation of the Company.  Each such  individual has the rights of a general
creditor of the Company.





                                   ARTICLE II

                                   DEFINITIONS

     When used in this  Plan,  the  following  underlined  terms  shall have the
meanings set forth below unless a different  meaning is plainly  required by the
context:

     2.1 Account:  The account  maintained for a Participant on the books of the
Company to determine,  from time to time, the  Participant's  interest under the
Plan. The balance in such Account shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.
Each Participant's Account shall consist of at least one Deferral Subaccount for
each  separate  deferral  under  Article  III. The Plan  Administrator  may also
establish  such  additional  subaccounts  as it deems  necessary  for the proper
administration  of the Plan. Where  appropriate,  a reference to a Participant's
Account shall include a reference to each  applicable  subaccount  that has been
established thereunder.

     2.2 Annual  Retainer:  An  eligible  Director's  adjusted  annual  retainer
received as compensation  for service on the Company's  Board of Directors.  For
any applicable period, an eligible  Director's adjusted annual retainer shall be
determined after reductions for tax levies,  garnishments and such other amounts
as the Plan  Administrator  recognizes as reducing the amount of annual retainer
available for deferral.

     2.3  Beneficiary:   The  person  or  persons  who  a  Participant  properly
designates,  in  accordance  with  Section  3.5 and as  determined  by the  Plan
Administrator,  to  receive  the  amounts  in one or more  of the  Participant's
subaccounts in the event of the Participant's death.

     2.4 Code: The Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

     2.5 Company: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., a North Carolina corporation,
or its successor or successors.

     2.6 Deferral Subaccount: A subaccount of a Participant's Account maintained
to reflect his interest in the Plan  attributable to each deferral of his Annual
Retainer  and  Initial  Retainer,  and  earnings  or  losses  credited  to  such
subaccount in accordance with Section 4.1(b).

     2.7 Director: Any member of the Company's Board of Directors.

     2.8 Effective Date: October 7, 1997.tive Date

     2.9 Election Form: The form prescribed by the Plan Administrator on which a
Participant  specifies  the amount of his Annual  Retainer to be  deferred,  the
applicable period of deferral,  and any other  information  required by the Plan
Administrator.

     2.10  ERISA:  The  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
amended.

     2.11  Fair  Market  Value:  For  purposes  of  converting  a  Participant's
deferrals to Tricon Common Stock as of any date, the Fair Market Value of Tricon
Common Stock is determined as the average of the high and low price on such date
for Tricon Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities  listed
on the New York Stock Exchange,  Inc.,  rounded to four decimal places.  For the
first Plan Year, the Fair Market Value determined under the prior sentence shall
not be less  than the mean of 


the  closing  prices for the fifth  through  the  twentieth  trading  days after
October 6, 1997 (determined from such composite tape and rounded to four decimal
places). For purposes of determining the value of a Plan distribution,  the Fair
Market Value of Tricon  Common Stock is  determined  as the closing price on the
applicable Valuation Date (identified based on the Plan Administrator's  current
procedures)  for Tricon  stock,  whichever  is  applicable,  as  reported on the
composite  tape for  securities  listed on the New York  Stock  Exchange,  Inc.,
rounded to four decimal places.

     2.12 Initial Retainer: A one-time lump sum payment received as compensation
for service on the Company's  Board of Directors,  as determined and adjusted by
the  Plan  Administrator.  An  eligible  Director's  initial  retainer  shall be
determined after adjustments for tax levies, garnishments and such other amounts
as the Plan  Administrator  recognizes  as  reducing  the amount of such  awards
available for deferral.

     2.13  Participant:  Any Director  eligible  pursuant to Section 3.1 who has
satisfied  the  requirements  for  participation  in  this  Plan  and who has an
Account.

     2.14 Plan: The Tricon Directors  Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as it may be
amended from time to time.

     2.15 Plan  Administrator:  The Board of Directors  of the  Company,  or its
delegate or delegates.  As of the Effective Date, the  responsibility for day to
day  administration  of the Plan has been  delegated to the Vice  President  for
People Services.

     2.16 Plan  Year:  The  12-month  period  from  October 1 to  September  30,
provided  that the  initial  Plan Year shall be a short Plan Year that begins on
the Effective Date and ends on September 30, 1998.

     2.17   Termination  of  Services:   The   termination  of  a  Participant's
appointment  as a Director.  For this purpose,  the occasions  when a Director's
appointment terminates shall be deemed to include his death.

     2.18 Tricon: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.

     2.19 Tricon Group: The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates (as such
may be identified from time to time by the Plan Administrator).

     2.20 Valuation Date: Each date as of which Participant  Accounts are valued
in accordance  with procedures of the Plan  Administrator  that are currently in
effect.  As of the Effective  Date,  the Valuation  Dates are March 31, June 30,
September  30 and  December  31.  Values  are  determined  as of the  close of a
Valuation  Date or, if such date is not a business  day,  as of the close of the
immediately preceding business day.




                                   ARTICLE III

                                  PARTICIPATION

     3.1 Eligibility to Participate

     (a) Eligibility  Requirements.  A Director who is not currently an employee
of the Tricon  Group shall be eligible  to have his  initial  retainer  deferred
automatically  and to make an  election to defer his annual  retainer  under the
Plan. During the period an individual satisfies the eligibility  requirements of
this section, he shall be referred to as an eligible Director.

     (b) Cessation of Eligibility.  An  individual's  eligibility to participate
actively by deferring  compensation  under this Article III shall cease upon the
earlier of:

          (1) The date of his Termination of Service; or

          (2) The date the Director becomes an employee of the Tricon Group.

     (c) Active  Participation.  An eligible Director shall become a Participant
as  of  the  date  an   amount   is  first   deferred   on  his   behalf   under
the Plan.

     (d)  Cessation  of  Participation.  An  individual,  who has been an active
Participant   under  the  Plan,   ceases  to  be  a  Participant   on  the  date
his Account is fully paid out.

     3.2 Automatic  Deferral.  An eligible  Director's Initial Retainer shall be
deferred under the Plan until the calendar quarter  following his Termination of
Service.

     3.3 Elective  Deferral.  For each Plan Year, an eligible Director may elect
to defer  under  the Plan  some or all of his  Annual  Retainer,  in 10  percent
increments,  by filing an  Election  Form with the Plan  Administrator.  Amounts
deferred  by an  eligible  Director  for a Plan Year will be  deducted  from his
Annual Retainer.

     (a) Time of  Deferral  Election.  Subject to the next three  sentences,  an
eligible Director must file a completed  Election Form at least 30 days prior to
the Plan  Year in  which  the  Annual  Retainer  would  otherwise  be  paid.  An
individual  who newly becomes an eligible  Director  during a Plan Year (or less
than 60 days prior to a Plan Year) may make a deferral  election with respect to
the portion of his Annual  Retainer to be paid during the balance of the current
Plan  Year  within  30 days of the  date  the  individual  becomes  an  eligible
Director. Such an individual may also make an election at this time with respect
to the Annual  Retainer to be paid during the next Plan Year.  In the first Plan
Year, an eligible  Director may make a deferral election until December 1, 1997,
with respect to his annual retainer for such Plan Year.

     (b)  Complete  Election  Form  Required.  To  be  effective,   an  Eligible
Director's  Election  Form  must set  forth the  percentage  of Annual  Retainer
deferred,  the  deferral  period under  Section  3.4,  the  eligible  Director's
Beneficiary designation,  and any other information that may be requested by the
Plan Administrator from time to time.


     (c) Election  Irrevocable.  An election is  irrevocable  once  received and
determined  by the Plan  Administrator  to be properly  completed.  Increases or
decreases in the percentage a Participant elects to defer shall not be permitted
during a Plan Year.

     (d) Failure to File Election Form. If an eligible  Director fails to file a
properly completed and executed Election Form with the Plan Administrator by the
prescribed  time,  he will be deemed  to have  elected  not to defer his  Annual
Retainer for the applicable Plan Year

     (e)  Extension  of  Election  Period.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of
subsections (c) and (d) above, to the extent necessary  because of extraordinary
circumstances,  the Plan  Administrator  may grant an  extension of any election
period and may permit (to the extent  necessary  to avoid  undue  hardship to an
eligible Director) the complete revocation of an election with respect to future
deferrals.  Any such extension or revocation shall be available only if the Plan
Administrator determines it shall not trigger constructive receipt of income and
only upon such conditions as may be required by the Plan Administrator.

     3.4 Period of  Deferral.  An  eligible  Director  shall  specify a deferral
period for his Annual  Retainer by  designating a specific  payout date,  one or
more specific payout events, or both a date and one or more specific events from
the  choices  that are  made  available  to the  eligible  Director  by the Plan
Administrator.   Such  designation  shall  be  made  by  filing  with  the  Plan
Administrator a completed  Election Form or other written form acceptable to the
Plan Administrator. Subject to the next sentence, an eligible Director's elected
period  of  deferral  shall  run  until  the  earliest  occurring  date or event
specified on his Election Form.  Notwithstanding  an eligible  Director's actual
election,  an  eligible  Director  shall be deemed  to have  elected a period of
deferral at least until the first day of the second Plan Year following the Plan
Year during which the Annual Retainer would have been paid absent the deferral.

     3.5 Beneficiary Designation. A Participant shall designate a Beneficiary to
receive payment of amounts credited to his Account in the event of his death. To
be  effective,  a  Beneficiary  designation  must be in  writing,  signed by the
Participant,  and filed with the Plan  Administrator  prior to the Participant's
death,  and it must meet such other  standards as the Plan  Administrator  shall
require from time to time.

     (a) No  Designation.  If no  designation  is in  effect  at the  time  of a
Participant's  death, or if all designated  Beneficiaries  have  predeceased the
Participant, then the Participant's Beneficiary shall be his estate.

     (b)  Change  in  Designation.  At any  time,  a  Participant  may  change a
Beneficiary designation for any or all Deferral Subaccounts in a writing that is
signed by the  Participant  and filed with the Plan  Administrator  prior to the
Participant's   death,   and  that  meets  such  other  standards  as  the  Plan
Administrator shall require from time to time.

     (c) Continuation as Beneficiary. A Beneficiary designation of an individual
by name (or name and relationship) remains in effect regardless of any change in
the designated individual's  relationship to the Participant.  An individual who
is otherwise a Beneficiary with respect to a Participant's  Account ceases to be
a Beneficiary when all payments have been made from the Account.





                                   ARTICLE IV

                            INTERESTS OF PARTICIPANTS

     4.1 Accounting for Participants'  Interests. A Participant's deferral shall
be credited to his Account as soon as  practicable  following  the date when the
deferral  of   compensation   actually   occurs,   as  determined  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  A  Participant's  Account is a  bookkeeping  device to track the
value of his deferrals (and the Company's liability  therefor).  No assets shall
be reserved or segregated in connection  with any Account,  and no Account shall
be insured or otherwise secured.

     (a) Deferral Subaccounts. Each Participant shall have a Deferral Subaccount
credited with his initial retainer and a separate Deferral  Subaccount  credited
with the amount of each separate  deferral of his Annual Retainer that he elects
under the Plan.

     (b) Account Earnings or Losses.  As of each Valuation Date, a Participant's
Account  shall be  credited  with  earnings  and gains (and shall be debited for
expenses and losses)  determined as if the amounts  credited to his Account were
actually  invested in Tricon Common Stock in accordance with (c) below. The Plan
provides only for "phantom  investment,"  and therefore  such  earnings,  gains,
expenses  and losses are  hypothetical  and not actual.  However,  they shall be
applied to measure  the value of a  Participant's  Account and the amount of the
Company's   liability  to  make  deferred  payments  to  or  on  behalf  of  the
Participant.

     (c) Phantom  Investment.  Participant  Accounts  are adjusted to reflect an
investment in Tricon Common  Stock.  An amount  deferred is converted to phantom
shares of Tricon Common Stock of equivalent value by dividing such amount by the
Fair Market Value of a share of Tricon  Common Stock on the date as of which the
amount is invested by the Plan Administrator.  Only whole shares are determined.
Any  remaining  amount (and all amounts that would be received by the Account as
dividends,  if dividends  were paid on phantom  shares of Tricon Common Stock as
they are on  actual  shares)  are  credited  to a  dividend  subaccount  that is
invested on a phantom basis as described in paragraph (3) below.

          (1) A  Participant's  interest in the Tricon  Common Stock  Account is
     valued as of a Valuation Date by  multiplying  the number of phantom shares
     credited to his Account on such date by the Fair Market Value of a share of
     Tricon  Common  Stock  on such  date,  and  then  adding  the  value of the
     Participant's dividend subaccount.

          (2) If  shares of Tricon  Common  Stock  change by reason of any stock
     split, stock dividend,  recapitalization,  merger, consolidation,  spinoff,
     combination or exchange of shares, complete or partial liquidation or other
     similar  corporate change,  such equitable  adjustment shall be made in the
     number  of  shares  credited  to an  Account  or  subaccount  as  the  Plan
     Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

          (3) Amounts  credited to a  Participant's  dividend  subaccount  shall
     accrue a return based upon the prime rate of interest  announced  from time
     to  time  by  Citibank,  N.A.  (or  another  bank  designated  by the  Plan
     Administrator  from time to time).  Returns  accrue during the period since
     the last  Valuation  Date  based on the  prime  rate in effect on the first
     business day after such  Valuation  Date and are  compounded  annually.  An
     amount is credited with the  applicable  rate of return  beginning with the
     date as of  which  the  amount  is  invested  in this  option  by the  Plan
     Administrator.


     In no event will shares of Tricon  Common  Stock  actually be  purchased or
held under this Plan, and no Participant  shall have any rights as a shareholder
of Tricon Common Stock on account of an interest in this Plan.

     4.2 Vesting of a Participant's  Account.  A  Participant's  interest in the
value of his Account shall at all times be 100 percent vested,  which means that
it will not be forfeited as a result of his Termination of Service.

     4.3 Distribution of a Participant's  Account. A Participant's Account shall
be distributed,  at the option of the Plan Administrator,  either in the form of
cash or in whole  shares of  Tricon  Common  Stock  (with  cash for any  partial
share).

     (a)  Scheduled  Payout  Date.  With  respect  to  a  specific  deferral,  a
Participant's  "Scheduled  Payout Date" shall be: (i) in the case of his initial
retainer,  the first day of the calendar  quarter  following his  Termination of
Service,  and  (ii) in the  case of a  deferred  annual  retainer  payment,  the
earliest to occur date or event of those  selected by the  Participant  for such
deferral  in  accordance  with  Section 3.4  (subject  to the  minimum  deferral
requirement  of such  section).  Unless an election has been made in  accordance
with subsection (b) below, the Participant's  subaccount containing the deferral
shall  be  distributed  to the  Participant  in a  single  lump  sum as  soon as
practicable following the Scheduled Payout Date.

     (b) Payment  Election.  A  Participant  may delay  receipt of a  subaccount
beyond its Scheduled Payout Date, or elect to receive installments rather than a
lump sum, by making a payment election under this subsection. A payment election
must be made by the  calendar  year  before the year  containing  the  Scheduled
Payout Date (or if earlier, at least 6 months before the Scheduled Payout Date).
Any  payment  election  to  receive a lump sum at a later  time  must  specify a
revised  payout date that is at least 2 years after the  Scheduled  Payout Date.
Any payment election to receive installment payments in lieu of a lump sum shall
specify the amount of (or method for determining)  each installment and a set of
revised  payout  dates,  the last of which  must be at least 2 years  after  the
Scheduled Payout Date. With respect to any subaccount,  only one election may be
made under this  subsection.  Beneficiaries  are not permitted to make elections
under this  subsection.  Actual  payments  shall be made as soon as  practicable
following a revised payout date.

     (c) Limitations.  The following limitations apply to distributions from the
Plan.

          (1)  Installments  may  only  be  made  quarterly,   semi-annually  or
     annually,  for a period of no more than 20  years,  and not later  than the
     Participant's 80th birthday (or what would have been his 80th birthday,  if
     the Participant dies earlier).

          (2) If a Participant has elected a Scheduled Payout Date that would be
     after his 80th birthday,  the  Participant  shall be deemed to have elected
     his 80th birthday as his Scheduled Payout Date.

          (d)   Valuation.   In   determining   the  amount  of  any  individual
     distribution  pursuant to subsection  (a) or (b) above,  the  Participant's
     subaccount  shall  continue to be  credited  with  earnings  and gains (and
     debited for expenses and losses) under  Section  4.1(b) until the Valuation
     Date  preceding the Scheduled  Payout Date or revised  payout date for such
     distribution  (whichever  is  applicable).  In  determining  the value of a
     Participant's  remaining subaccount following an installment  distribution,
     such installment  distribution  shall reduce the value of the Participant's
     subaccount  as of the close of the  


     Valuation Date preceding the revised payout date for such installment until
     the Valuation Date preceding the Scheduled Payout Date.

     (e) Payments at Death. Upon a Participant's death, his Beneficiary shall be
paid each subaccount still standing to the  Participant's  credit under the Plan
in  accordance  with the terms of the  Participant's  payout  election  for such
subaccount  under  Section 3.4, or his payment  election  under  subsection  (b)
above, whichever is applicable.

     4.4  Acceleration  of Payment for Certain  Hardships.  Except as  expressly
provided in this Section, no payments shall be made under this Plan prior to the
date (or dates) applicable under Section 4.3.

     (a) A Participant who is suffering severe financial hardship resulting from
extraordinary  and  unforeseeable  events beyond the control of the  Participant
(and who does not have other funds  reasonably  available that could satisfy the
severe   financial   hardship)  may  file  a  written   request  with  the  Plan
Administrator for accelerated payment of all or a portion of the amount credited
to his  Account.  A committee  composed of  representatives  from the  Company's
Compensation  Department and Law  Department,  or such other parties as the Plan
Administrator  may  specify  from time to time,  shall have sole  discretion  to
determine  whether a  Participant  satisfies  the  requirements  for a  hardship
request  and the  amount  that may be  distributed  (which  shall not exceed the
amount reasonably necessary to alleviate the Participant's hardship).

     (b)  The  Plan   Administrator   may  adjust  the  standards  for  hardship
withdrawals  from time to time to the extent it determines such adjustment to be
necessary to avoid triggering constructive receipt of income under the Plan.

     (c)  A  Beneficiary   may  also  request  a  hardship   distribution   upon
satisfaction  of  the  foregoing  requirements  and  subject  to  the  foregoing
limitations.

     (d) When some or all of a Participant's  subaccount is distributed pursuant
to this section, the distribution and the subaccount shall be valued as provided
by the Plan  Administrator,  using rules patterned after those in Section 4.3(d)
above.





                      ARTICLE VARTICLE V PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

     5.1 Plan  Administrator.  The Plan  Administrator is the Company's Board of
Directors  (the "Board") or its delegate or delegates,  who shall act within the
scope of their  delegation  pursuant to such  operating  guidelines as the Board
shall establish from time to time. The Plan Administrator is responsible for the
administration of the Plan.

     5.2 Action.  Action by the Board may be taken in accordance with procedures
that the Board  adopts from time to time or that the  Company's  Law  Department
determines are legally permissible.

     5.3 Right and Duties.  The Plan  Administrator  shall administer and manage
the Plan and  shall  have all  powers  necessary  to  accomplish  that  purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following:

     (a) To exercise its  discretionary  authority to construe,  interpret,  and
administer this Plan;

     (b) To exercise its discretionary authority to make all decisions regarding
eligibility, participation and deferrals, to make allocations and determinations
required by this Plan, and to maintain records regarding Participants' Accounts;

     (c) To compute  and certify to the Company the amount and kinds of payments
to Participants or their Beneficiaries,  and to determine the time and manner in
which such payments are to be paid;

     (d) To authorize all disbursements by the Company pursuant to this Plan;

     (e) To maintain (or cause to be maintained)  all the necessary  records for
administration of this Plan;

     (f) To make and publish such rules for the  regulation  of this Plan as are
not inconsistent with the terms hereof;

     (g) To delegate  to other  individuals  or  entities  from time to time the
performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;

     (h)  To  establish  or  to  change  the  phantom   investment   options  or
arrangements under Article IV; and

     (i) To hire agents, accountants,  actuaries,  consultants and legal counsel
to assist in operating and administering the Plan.

     The Plan  Administrator  has the exclusive and  discretionary  authority to
construe and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of  eligibility  for
benefits,  to determine the amount and manner of payment of such benefits and to
make any  determinations  that are  contemplated by (or  permissible  under) the
terms  of this  Plan,  and its  decisions  on such  matters  will be  final  and
conclusive on all parties.  Any such decision or determination  shall be made in
the absolute and unrestricted discretion of the Plan Administrator,  even if (A)
such discretion is not expressly granted by the Plan provisions in question,  or


(B) a  determination  is not  expressly  called  for by the Plan  provisions  in
question,  and even though other Plan provisions  expressly grant  discretion or
call for a determination. In the event of a review by a court, arbitrator or any
other tribunal, any exercise of the Plan Administrator's discretionary authority
shall  not  be  disturbed  unless  it  is  clearly  shown  to be  arbitrary  and
capricious.

     5.4  Compensation,  Indemnity and Liability.  The Plan  Administrator  will
serve without bond and without compensation for services hereunder. All expenses
of the Plan and the Plan Administrator will be paid by the Company. No member of
the Company's  Board of Directors,  and no individual  acting as the delegate of
the  Board,  shall be liable  for any act or  omission  of any  other  member or
individual,  nor for any act or  omission  on his own  part,  excepting  his own
willful misconduct.  The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each member of
the Board and any individual or individuals  acting as the delegate of the Board
against any and all expenses and  liabilities,  including  reasonable legal fees
and expenses,  arising under the Plan in connection  with his  membership on the
Board (or his serving as the delegate of the Board), excepting only expenses and
liabilities arising out of his own willful misconduct.

     5.5 Taxes.  If the whole or any part of any  Participant's  Account becomes
liable for the payment of any estate,  inheritance,  income,  or other tax which
the Company may be required to pay or  withhold,  the Company will have the full
power and  authority  to  withhold  and pay such tax out of any  moneys or other
property  in its hand for the  account  of the  Participant.  The  Company  will
provide the Participant notice of such withholding. Prior to making any payment,
the Company may require such releases or other  documents from any lawful taxing
authority as it shall deem necessary.




                 ARTICLE VIARTICLE VI AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     6.1 Amendments.  The Board of Directors of the Company has the right in its
sole  discretion  to amend  this Plan in whole or in part at any time and in any
manner;  provided,  however,  that no such  amendment  shall  reduce  the amount
credited  to the Account of any  Participant  as of the date such  amendment  is
adopted.  Any  amendment  shall be in  writing  and  adopted  by the Board or an
officer of the  Company who is  authorized  by the Board for this  purpose.  All
Participants shall be bound by such amendment.

     6.2  Termination  of Plan.  The Company  expects to continue this Plan, but
does  not  obligate  itself  to do so.  The  Company,  acting  by its  Board  of
Directors, reserves the right to discontinue and terminate the Plan at any time,
in whole or in part, for any reason (including a change, or an impending change,
in the tax laws of the United States or any State). Termination of the Plan will
be binding on all Participants (and a partial  termination shall be binding upon
all  affected  Participants),  but in no event may such  termination  reduce the
amounts  credited  at that time to any  Participant's  Account.  If this Plan is
terminated  (in whole or in part),  amounts  theretofore  credited  to  affected
Participants'  Accounts  may  either  be  paid  in a lump  sum  immediately,  or
distributed in some other manner consistent with this Plan, as determined by the
Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.





                                   ARTICLE VII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     7.1 Limitation on Participant's Rights. Participation in this Plan does not
give any  Participant  the right to be retained in the Company's  employ (or any
right or interest in this Plan or any assets of the Company other than as herein
provided).  The Company  reserves the right to terminate  the  employment of any
Participant  without any  liability for any claim against the Company under this
Plan, except for a claim for payment of deferrals as provided herein.

     7.2 Unfunded Obligation of the Company.  The benefits provided by this Plan
are unfunded.  All amounts payable under this Plan to Participants are paid from
the general assets of the Company.  Nothing  contained in this Plan requires the
Company to set aside or hold in trust any  amounts or assets for the  purpose of
paying benefits to Participants. This Plan creates only a contractual obligation
on the part of the  Company,  and the  Participant  has the  status of a general
unsecured  creditor  of the  Company  with  respect to  amounts of  compensation
deferred hereunder.

     7.3 Receipt or Release. Any payment to a Participant in accordance with the
provisions of this Plan shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of
all  claims  against  the  Plan  Administrator  and the  Company,  and the  Plan
Administrator  may require such  Participant,  as a condition  precedent to such
payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.

     7.4 Governing Law. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed
in all respects in accordance with applicable federal law and, to the extent not
preempted  by federal  law,  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of North
Carolina.  If any  provisions  of this  instrument  shall  be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,  the remaining provisions
hereof shall continue to be fully effective.

     7.5 Gender,  Tense,  and  Headings.  In this Plan,  whenever the context so
indicates, the singular or plural number and the masculine,  feminine, or neuter
gender shall be deemed to include the other.  Headings and  subheadings  in this
Plan are inserted for  convenience  of reference  only and are not considered in
the construction of the provisions hereof.

     7.6 Successors and Assigns;  Nonalienation of Benefits. This Plan inures to
the  benefit of and is binding  upon the  parties  hereto and their  successors,
heirs and assigns;  provided,  however, that the amounts credited to the Account
of a  Participant  are not (except as provided  in Section  5.5)  subject in any
manner  to  anticipation,   alienation,  sale,  transfer,   assignment,  pledge,
encumbrance,  charge,  garnishment,  execution  or  levy  of  any  kind,  either
voluntary  or  involuntary,  and any  attempt  to  anticipate,  alienate,  sell,
transfer,  assign, pledge, encumber, charge or otherwise dispose of any right to
any benefits payable hereunder, including, without limitation, any assignment or
alienation in connection  with a separation,  divorce,  child support or similar
arrangement,  will be null and void and not binding on the Plan or the  Company.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  the Company reserves the right to make payments
in accordance with a divorce  decree,  judgment or other court order as and when
cash  payments  are made in  accordance  with the  terms of this Plan due to the
Account of a Participant and credited against such Account.





     7.7 Facility of Payment.  Whenever, in the Plan Administrator's  opinion, a
Participant or Beneficiary  entitled to receive any payment hereunder is under a
legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his
financial  affairs,  the Plan  Administrator  may  direct  the  Company  to make
payments  to such person or to the legal  representative  of such person for his
benefit,  or to apply the  payment for the benefit of such person in such manner
as the Plan Administrator  considers  advisable.  Any payment in accordance with
the  provisions of this section  shall be a complete  discharge of any liability
for the making of such payment to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.






     This 3rd day of  November,  1997,  the above restated Plan is
hereby  adopted and  approved by the  Company's  duly  authorized  officer to be
effective as stated herein.


                                   TRICON, INC.



                                   By:  /s/ Michael Theilmann
                                        ------------------------


APPROVED


By:  /s/ R. Scott Toop
     ---------------------
     Law Department





                  TRICON RESTAURANT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

                                    APPENDIX



     This Appendix  modifies and supplements the general terms of the Plan as it
applies to certain executives.

     Except as specifically  modified in the Appendix,  the foregoing provisions
of the Plan shall fully apply. In the event of a conflict  between this Appendix
and the foregoing provisions of the Plan, the Appendix shall govern with respect
to the conflict.

     Notwithstanding  that Section 4.3 permits certain  distributions to be made
in Tricon Common Stock, during the two year period following the Effective Date,
the number of shares of Tricon  Common Stock  delivered or purchased  under this
Plan (when  aggregated with shares of Tricon Common Stock delivered or purchased
under other plans or  programs of the  Company)  shall at all times be less than
the number of shares  that  would  result in  PepsiCo,  Inc.,  a North  Carolina
corporation,  not having "control" of Tricon (immediately before distribution of
Tricon  Common Stock to PepsiCo's  shareholders)  within the meaning of Sections
355(a)(1)(A) and 368(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.

                                      A-1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.8
                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
                          1997 Long Term Incentive Plan

1.   Purpose.

     The purposes of the 1997 Long Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") are : (1) to
provide TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  ("TRICON") stock options to employees
pursuant to the Employee Programs  Agreement entered into between PepsiCo,  Inc.
("PepsiCo")  and TRICON which requires that certain  liabilities  under the 1994
PepsiCo,  Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan and the 1995 PepsiCo,  Inc. Stock Option
Incentive Plan (collectively the "PepsiCo Stock Option Plans") be transferred to
and continued  under this Plan and that certain  PepsiCo  stock options  granted
under the PepsiCo Stock Option Plans be converted to TRICON stock  options;  (2)
to provide Long Term incentives to those persons with significant responsibility
for the  success  and  growth  of TRICON  and its  subsidiaries,  divisions  and
affiliated businesses (collectively the "Company"); (3) to assist the Company in
attracting  and  retaining  key  employees on a  competitive  basis,  and (4) to
associate the interests of such employees with those of TRICON shareholders.

2.   Administration of the Plan.

     The Plan shall be administered by the  Compensation  Committee of the Board
of Directors of TRICON (the  "Committee").  The Committee  shall be appointed by
the Board of Directors and shall consist of two or more outside,  members of the
Board.

     The Committee  shall have all powers vested in it by the terms of the Plan,
such powers to include  authority  (within the limitations  described herein) to
select the persons to be granted  awards under the Plan,  to determine the type,
size and terms of awards to be made to each  employee or director  selected,  to
determine the time when awards will be granted and any conditions  which must be
satisfied  by  employees  or  directors  before an award is made,  to  establish
objectives  and  conditions  for  earning  awards,  to  determine  whether  such
conditions have been met and whether awards will be paid at the end of the award
period,  or when the award is  exercised,  or  deferred,  to  determine  whether
payment of an award should be reduced or  eliminated,  and to determine  whether
such awards should qualify,  regardless of their amount,  as deductible in their
entirety for federal income tax purposes.

     The  Committee  shall  have full  power and  authority  to  administer  and
interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations,  agreements, guidelines
and  instruments for the  administration  of the Plan and for the conduct of its
businesses  as the  Committee  deems  necessary or  advisable.  The  Committee's
interpretations  of the Plan, and all actions taken and  determinations  made by
the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive
and binding on all parties  concerned,  including the Company,  its shareholders
and any person receiving an award under the Plan.

3.   Eligibility.

     Non-employee  directors and key  employees of the Company,  as defined from
time to time by the Committee, are eligible to be granted awards under the Plan.
Non-employee  directors and key employees of the Company shall be granted awards
of stock options and may, in the Committee's discretion, be granted other awards
available under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, incentive stock options
may only be granted to employees of the Company.



4.   Awards.

     (a) Types. Awards under the Plan include stock options,  performance units,
incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock.

          (i) Stock  Options.  Stock  options are rights to  purchase  shares of
     TRICON  Common  Stock  ("Common  Stock") at a fixed  price for a  specified
     period of time.  The purchase  price per share of Common Stock covered by a
     stock option awarded  pursuant to this Plan,  including any incentive stock
     options, shall be equal to or greater than the fair market value of a share
     of TRICON Common Stock on the date the stock option is awarded.

          (ii) Performance Units.  Performance units are rights to receive up to
     100% of the value of shares of Common Stock as of the date of grant,  which
     value may be paid in cash or Common Stock,  without  payment of any amounts
     to TRICON.  The full  and/or  partial  payment of  performance  unit awards
     granted  under  this  Plan  will be made  only  upon  certification  by the
     Committee of the attainment by TRICON,  over a four year period, of any one
     or more of the following  business  criteria:  earnings per share,  revenue
     growth, corporate earnings, return on investment, total shareholder return,
     profits,  cash flow,  market value added or economic value added which have
     been  established by the Committee.  No payment will be made if the targets
     are not met.

          (iii) Stock Appreciation  Rights. Stock appreciation rights are rights
     to receive  the  difference  between  the fair  market  value of a share of
     TRICON  Common Stock on the grant date and the fair market value of a share
     of Common Stock on the date the stock appreciation right is exercised.

          (iv)  Restricted  Stock.  The  full  and/or  partial  vesting  of  any
     restricted  stock  award  made  under  this Plan will  occur  only upon the
     attainment by TRICON of primary and secondary  targets  established  by the
     Committee at the time the award is made.  These targets may be based on one
     or more of the following:  earnings per share,  revenue  growth,  corporate
     earnings,  return on investment,  total shareholder return,  profits,  cash
     flow, market value added or economic value added.

     (b) Supplemental Awards. Eligible employees who are newly hired or promoted
or  non-employee  directors who are newly retained during the vesting period for
stock options will be granted  supplemental pro rata grants of stock options and
performance units.

     (c) Negative  Discretion.  Notwithstanding  the attainment by TRICON of any
target  specified  under  this  Plan,  the  Committee  has  the  discretion,  by
participant, to reduce some or all of an award that would otherwise be paid.

     (d)  Guidelines.  The  Committee  shall  adopt  from  time to time  written
policies for its  implementation  of the Plan. Such policies shall be consistent
with the Plan and may  include,  but need not be limited to, the type,  size and
term of awards to be made, and the conditions for payment of such awards.

     (e) Maximum  Awards.  An employee or  non-employee  director may be granted
multiple awards under the Plan but no one employee or non-employee  director may
be granted awards which would result in his or her receiving,  in the aggregate,
during  the term of the  Plan,  more  than 10% of the  maximum  number of shares
available  for award  under the Plan.  Solely for the  purposes  of  determining
whether  this maximum is met, a  performance  unit shall be treated as entitling
the holder thereof to one share of TRICON Common Stock.





5.   Shares of Stock Subject to the Plan.

     The shares  that may be  delivered  or  purchased  under the Plan shall not
exceed  an  aggregate  22,500,000  shares  of  Common  Stock,  as  adjusted,  if
appropriate, pursuant to Section 7 hereof.

6.   Deferred Payments.

     The  Committee  may  determine  that all or a  portion  of a  payment  to a
participant  under the Plan,  whether it is to be made in cash, shares of Common
Stock or a combination thereof,  shall be deferred.  Deferrals shall be for such
periods  and  upon  such  terms  as the  Committee  may  determine  in its  sole
discretion.

7.   Dilution and Other Adjustments.

     In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of TRICON Common Stock
by   reason   of  any   split,   stock   dividend,   recapitalization,   merger,
reorganization, consolidation, combination or exchange of shares, any separation
of a corporation  (including a spin-off or other  distribution  of assets of the
Company to its  shareholders),  any  partial or complete  liquidation,  or other
similar corporate change,  such equitable  adjustments shall be made in the Plan
and  the  awards  thereunder  as the  Committee  determines  are  necessary  and
appropriate,  including,  if necessary,  an adjustment in the maximum  number or
kind of shares  subject to the Plan or which may be or have been  awarded to any
participant. Such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of
the Plan.

8.   Change in Control

     (a) In order to  maintain  the  Participants'  rights  in the  event of any
Change  in  Control  of  TRICON,  as  hereinafter  defined,  the  Committee,  as
constituted  before such Change in Control,  may, in its sole discretion,  as to
any Award, either at the time an Award is made hereunder or any time thereafter,
take any one or more of the following actions:  (i) provide for the acceleration
of any time periods relating to the exercise or realization of any such Award so
that such Award may be  exercised  or realized in full on or before a date fixed
by the  Committee;  (ii)  provide for the  purchase of any such Award,  upon the
Participant's request, for an amount of cash equal to the amount that could have
been  attained  upon  the  exercise  of  such  Award  or   realization   of  the
Participant's rights had such Award been currently exercisable or payable; (iii)
make such  adjustment to any such Award then  outstanding as the Committee deems
appropriate to reflect such Change in Control; or (iv) cause any such Award then
outstanding to be assumed, or new rights substituted  therefor, by the acquiring
or surviving corporation after such Change in Control. The Committee may, in its
discretion,  include such further provisions and limitations  regarding a Change
in Control in any agreement documenting such Awards as it may deem equitable and
in the best interests of TRICON.

     (b) A "Change in  Control"  shall be deemed to have  occurred  if (1) there
shall have been a change in the composition of the Board such that at any time a
majority  of the  Board  shall  have  been  members  of the  Board for less than
twenty-four  months,  unless the  election  of each new  director  who was not a
director at the  beginning of the period was approved by at least  two-thirds of
the directors  then still in office who were  directors at the beginning of such
period (but in no event by fewer than three such directors); (2) twenty (20%) or
more of the outstanding  common shares of TRICON are acquired by any individual,
corporation,  partnership or any other entity or (3) TRICON shareholders approve
(i) a merger or consolidation  involving the Company, if the shareholders of the
Company,  immediately before such merger or consolidation do not, as a result of
such  merger or  consolidation,  own,  directly or  indirectly,  more than fifty
percent  (50%) of the  combined  voting  power of the  then  outstanding  voting
securities of the  corporation  resulting from such merger or  consolidation  in
substantially  the same  proportion  as their  ownership of the combined  voting
power of the voting  securities of the Company  outstanding  immediately  before
such merger or  consolidation  or (ii) a complete  liquidation or 


dissolution  of the  Company  or  (iii)  an  agreement  for the  sale  or  other
disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.

     Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  a Change in Control shall not be deemed to
occur  pursuant to this Section  solely  because twenty percent (20%) or more of
the combined  voting  power of the  Company's  then  outstanding  securities  is
acquired by (i) a trustee or other  fiduciary  holding  securities  under one or
more employee benefit plans maintained by the Company or any of its subsidiaries
or (ii) any corporation which,  immediately prior to such acquisition,  is owned
directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in the same proportion
as  their  ownership  of  stock  in  the  Company   immediately  prior  to  such
acquisition.

9.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

     (a)  Misconduct.  If the  Committee  determines  that a  present  or former
employee  has  (i)  used  for  profit  or  disclosed  to  unauthorized  persons,
confidential  information  or trade  secrets of  TRICON,  or (ii)  breached  any
contract with or violated any fiduciary obligation to TRICON or (iii) engaged in
any conduct  which the  Committee  determines  is injurious to the Company,  the
Committee may cause that employee to forfeit his or her outstanding awards under
the Plan.

     (b) Rights as  Shareholder.  A participant in the Plan shall have no rights
as a holder of Common Stock with respect to awards  hereunder,  unless and until
certificates for shares of Common Stock are issued to such participant.

     (c)  Assignment  or  Transfer.  Unless  the  Committee  shall  specifically
determine otherwise,  no award under the Plan or any rights or interests therein
shall be assignable or transferable by a participant, except by will or the laws
of descent and distribution.

     (d)  Agreements.  All awards  granted  under the Plan shall be evidenced by
agreements  in  such  form  and  containing   such  terms  and  conditions  (not
inconsistent with the Plan) as the Committee shall approve.

     (e) Requirements for Transfer.  No share of Common Stock shall be issued or
transferred  under  the Plan  until  all legal  requirements  applicable  to the
issuance or transfer of such shares have been compiled with to the  satisfaction
of the Committee.  The Committee  shall have the right to condition any issuance
of  shares of  Common  Stock  made to any  participant  upon such  participant's
written   undertaking  to  comply  with  such  restrictions  on  his  subsequent
disposition  of such shares as the  Committee or TRICON shall deem  necessary or
advisable  as  a  result  of  any   applicable   law,   regulation  or  official
interpretation  thereof,  and  certificates  representing  such  shares  may  be
legended to reflect any6 such restrictions.

     (f)  Withholding  Taxes.  TRICON  shall  have the right to deduct  from all
awards  hereunder  paid in cash  any  federal,  state,  local or  foreign  taxes
required by law to be withheld with respect to such awards,  and with respect to
awards paid in stock or upon exercise of stock  options,  to require the payment
(through  withholding  from the  participant's  salary or otherwise) of any such
taxes.  The  obligations  of TRICON to make delivery of awards in cash or Common
Stock  shall be  subject  to  currency  or  other  restrictions  imposed  by any
government.

     (g) No Rights to Awards.  Except as set forth herein,  no employee or other
person  shall  have any claim or right to be  granted  an award  under the Plan.
Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any
employee any right to be retained in the employ of TRICON.

     (h) Costs and  Expenses.  The cost and expenses of  administering  the Plan
shall be borne by  TRICON  and not  charged  to any  award  nor to any  employee
receiving an award.


     (i)  Funding  of Plan.  The Plan  shall be  unfunded.  TRICON  shall not be
required  to  establish  any  special  or  separate  fund or to make  any  other
segregation of assets to assure the payment of any award under the Plan.

10.  Effective Date, Amendments and Terminations.

     (a) Effective Date. The Plan shall become effective on October 7, 1997.

     (b)  Amendments.  The Committee  may at any time  terminate or from time to
time  amend the Plan in whole or in part,  but no such  action  shall  adversely
affect any rights or  obligations  with  respect to any awards  heretofore  made
under the Plan.

     Unless  shareholders  of TRICON  shall  have  first  approved  thereof,  no
amendment of the Plan shall be effective which would increase the maximum number
of shares of TRICON Common Stock which may be delivered under the Plan or to any
one individual,  except to the extent such amendment is made pursuant to Section
7 hereof, extend the maximum period during which awards may be granted under the
Plan or modify the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan.

     With  the  consent  of the  employee  affected,  the  Committee  may  amend
outstanding  agreements  evidencing  awards  under  the  Plan  in a  manner  not
inconsistent with the terms of the Plan.

     (c) Termination.  No awards of stock options,  performance units, incentive
stock  options or stock  appreciation  rights shall be made under the Plan after
December 31, 2001.



                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.9
                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.

                   1997 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan


1.   Purpose.

     The principal purpose of the TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. 1997 Executive
Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is to provide incentives and rewards to
officers of TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc., and its subsidiaries and divisions
("TRICON")  pursuant to the  Employee  Programs  Agreement  entered  into by and
between PepsiCo,  Inc. and TRICON which requires that certain  liabilities under
the PepsiCo,  Inc. 1994 Executive Incentive  Compensation Plan be transferred to
and continued under this Plan.

2.   Administration of the Plan.

     The Plan shall be administered by the  Compensation  Committee of the Board
of Directors of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. (the "Committee"). The Committee
shall be appointed by the Board of  Directors  and shall  consist of two or more
outside members of the Board.

     The Committee shall have all powers vested in it by the terms of this Plan,
such powers to include  authority  (within the limitations  described herein) to
select the persons to be granted  awards under the Plan,  to determine  the time
when awards will be granted,  to determine whether objectives and conditions for
earning  awards have been met, to determine  whether  awards will be paid at the
end of the award  period  or  deferred,  and to  determine  whether  an award or
payment of an award should be reduced or eliminated.

     The  Committee  shall  have full  power and  authority  to  administer  and
interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations,  agreements, guidelines
and  instruments for the  administration  of the Plan and for the conduct of its
business  as  the  Committee  deems  necessary  or  advisable.  The  Committee's
interpretations  of the Plan, and all actions taken and  determinations  made by
the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive
and binding on all parties concerned, including TRICON, its shareholders and any
person receiving an award under the Plan.

3.   Eligibility.

     Executive  officers of TRICON will be granted  awards  under the Plan.  The
Committee,  in its  discretion,  may also grant awards to officers of TRICON and
its divisions and subsidiaries.

4.   Awards.

     (a) Types of Awards.  Executive  officers of TRICON shall be granted annual
incentive  awards  under this Plan in January of each year;  provided,  however,
that if an individual becomes an executive officer during a year that individual
shall be granted an  incentive  award for that year upon his or her  becoming an
executive officer. The Committee may, in its discretion,  grant annual incentive
awards to non-executive officers in January of each year.

     (b)  Performance  Targets.  The  Compensation  Committee  of the  Board  of
Directors of PepsiCo, Inc. has established earnings per share targets which must
be met in order for an award to be earned  under this Plan.  These  targets will
not be amended without shareholder approval.


     (c)  Payment  of  Awards.  Awards  will be  payable  in cash each year upon
certification  by the Committee that TRICON  achieved the specified  performance
target for the preceding  year. No payment will be made if the minimum  earnings
per share target is not met.

     (d) Negative  Discretion.  Notwithstanding  the attainment by TRICON of the
specified earnings targets, the Committee has the discretion, by participant, to
reduce some or all of an award that would be otherwise paid.

     (e) Maximum  Awards.  No participant  may receive more than a maximum of $9
million under the Plan in any calendar year.

5.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

     (a)  Guidelines.  The  Committee  shall  adopt  from  time to time  written
policies for its implementation of the Plan.

     (b)  Withholding  Taxes.  TRICON  shall  have the right to deduct  from all
awards  hereunder  paid in cash  any  federal,  state,  local or  foreign  taxes
required by law to be withheld with respect to such awards.

     (c) No Rights to Awards.  Except as set forth herein,  no employee or other
person  shall  have any claim or right to be  granted  an award  under the Plan.
Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any
employee  any  right  to be  retained  in the  employ  of  TRICON  or any of its
subsidiaries, divisions or affiliates.

     (d) Costs and  Expenses.  The cost and expenses of  administering  the Plan
shall be borne by  TRICON  and not  charged  to any  award  nor to any  employee
receiving an award.

     (e)  Funding  of Plan.  The Plan  shall be  unfunded.  TRICON  shall not be
required  to  establish  any  special  or  separate  fund or to make  any  other
segregation of assets to assure the payment of any award under the Plan.

6.   Effective Date, Amendments and Termination.

     (a) Effective Date. The Plan shall become effective on October 7, 1997.

     (b)  Amendments.  The Committee  may at any time  terminate or from time to
time  amend the Plan in whole or in part,  but no such  action  shall  adversely
affect any rights or  obligations  with respect to any awards  theretofore  made
under the Plan.

     Unless the  shareholders  of TRICON shall have first approved  thereof,  no
amendment of the Plan shall be effective which would increase the maximum amount
which can be paid to any one participant  under the Plan, which would change the
specified  performance  goal for  payment  of awards or which  would  modify the
requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan.

     (c) Termination.  No awards shall be made under the Plan after December 31,
2004.


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.

                   1998 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan


1.   Purpose.

     The  principal  purposes  of  the  TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  1998
Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") are to provide incentives and
rewards to officers of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc., and its subsidiaries and
divisions  ("TRICON"),  who have significant  responsibility for the success and
growth of TRICON and to assist TRICON in  attracting,  motivating  and retaining
key employees on a competitive basis.

2.   Administration of the Plan.

     The Plan shall be administered by the  Compensation  Committee of the Board
of Directors of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. (the "Committee"). The Committee
shall be appointed by the Board of  Directors  and shall  consist of two or more
outside members of the Board.

     The Committee shall have all powers vested in it by the terms of this Plan,
such powers to include  authority  (within the limitations  described herein) to
select the persons to be granted  awards under the Plan,  to determine  the time
when awards will be granted,  to determine whether objectives and conditions for
earning  awards have been met, to determine  whether  awards will be paid at the
end of the award  period  or  deferred,  and to  determine  whether  an award or
payment of an award should be reduced or eliminated.

     The Committee shall establish in writing one or more  performance  goals to
be attained (which  performance  goals may be stated as alternative  performance
goals)  for each  calendar  year on or before the latest  date  permitted  under
Section  162(m) of the  Internal  Revenue  Code or any  regulations  promulgated
thereunder.  Performance  goals may be based on any one or more of the following
business criteria as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may select:

     earnings  per  share  
     revenue  growth  
     corporate  earnings  
     return  on investment  
     total  shareholder return 
     profits 
     cash flow 
     market value added   
     economic value added

     The  Committee  shall  have full  power and  authority  to  administer  and
interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules, regulations,  agreements, guidelines
and  instruments for the  administration  of the Plan and for the conduct of its
business  as  the  Committee  deems  necessary  or  advisable.  The  Committee's
interpretations  of the Plan, and all actions taken and  determinations  made by
the Committee pursuant to the powers vested in it hereunder, shall be conclusive
and binding on all parties concerned, including TRICON, its shareholders and any
person receiving an award under the Plan.


3.   Eligibility.

     Executive  officers of TRICON will be granted  awards  under the Plan.  The
Committee, in its discretion, may also grant awards to any other key employee of
TRICON and its divisions and subsidiaries.

4.   Awards.

     (a) Types of Awards.  Executive  officers of TRICON shall be granted annual
incentive  awards  under this Plan in January of each year;  provided,  however,
that if an individual becomes an executive officer during a year that individual
shall be granted an  incentive  award for that year upon his or her  becoming an
executive officer. The Committee may, in its discretion,  grant annual incentive
awards to non-executive officers in January of each year.

     (b)  Payment of Awards.  Awards  will be payable in cash or stock each year
upon   certification  by  the  Committee  that  TRICON  achieved  the  specified
performance  target(s)  for the  preceding  year. No payment will be made if the
minimum performance target(s) is not met. Notwithstanding the foregoing,  during
the two year period following the effective date hereof, the number of shares of
Common Stock  delivered  under this Plan when  aggregated  with shares of Common
Stock delivered or purchased  under other programs  adopted by the Company shall
be less than the  number of shares  which  would  result in  PepsiCo  not having
"control" of TRICON  (immediately  before distribution of TRICON Common Stock to
PepsiCo  shareholders) within the meaning of Sections 355(a)(1)(A) and 368(c) of
the Internal Revenue Code.

     (c) Negative  Discretion.  Notwithstanding  the attainment by TRICON of the
specified performance targets, the Committee has the discretion, by participant,
to reduce some or all of an award that would be otherwise paid.

     (d) Maximum  Awards.  No participant  may receive more than a maximum award
under  the Plan in any  calendar  year  (which  may be based on a  predetermined
amount or formula).  Such maximum award shall be  determined  by the  Committee,
subject to shareholder approval.

5.   Miscellaneous Provisions.

     (a)  Guidelines.  The  Committee  shall  adopt  from  time to time  written
policies for its implementation of the Plan.

     (b)  Withholding  Taxes.  TRICON  shall  have the right to deduct  from all
awards  hereunder  paid in cash  any  federal,  state,  local or  foreign  taxes
required by law to be withheld with respect to such awards.

     (c) No Rights to Awards.  Except as set forth herein,  no employee or other
person  shall  have any claim or right to be  granted  an award  under the Plan.
Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any
employee  any  right  to be  retained  in the  employ  of  TRICON  or any of its
subsidiaries, divisions or affiliates.

     (d) Costs and  Expenses.  The cost and expenses of  administering  the Plan
shall be borne by  TRICON  and not  charged  to any  award  nor to any  employee
receiving an award.

     (e)  Funding  of Plan.  The Plan  shall be  unfunded.  TRICON  shall not be
required  to  establish  any  special  or  separate  fund or to make  any  other
segregation of assets to assure the payment of any award under the Plan.


6.   Effective Date, Amendments and Termination.

     (a) Effective Date. The Plan shall become effective on October 6, 1997.

     (b)  Amendments.  The Committee  may at any time  terminate or from time to
time  amend the Plan in whole or in part,  but no such  action  shall  adversely
affect any rights or  obligations  with respect to any awards  theretofore  made
under the Plan.

     Unless the  shareholders  of TRICON shall have first approved  thereof,  no
amendment of the Plan shall be effective which would increase the maximum amount
which can be paid to any one  participant  under the Plan or which would  modify
the requirements as to eligibility for participation in the Plan.

     (c) Termination.  No awards shall be made under the Plan after December 31,
2008.


                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.11


                                     TRICON
                        EXECUTIVE INCOME DEFERRAL PROGRAM

                                


ARTICLE I  INTRODUCTION AND ESTABLISHMENT....................................1


ARTICLE II  DEFINITIONS......................................................2

         2.1  Account........................................................2
         2.2  Base Compensation..............................................2
         2.3  Beneficiary....................................................2
         2.4  Bonus Compensation.............................................2
         2.5 Code 2
         2.6  Company........................................................2
         2.7  Deferral Subaccount............................................2
         2.8  Deferral Subaccount............................................3
         2.9  Effective Date.................................................3
         2.10  Election Form.................................................3
         2.11 Employee.......................................................3
         2.12  Employer......................................................3
         2.13  ERISA.........................................................3
         2.14  Fair Market Value.............................................3
         2.15  Participant...................................................3
         2.16  Performance Unit Payout.......................................3
         2.17  Plan..........................................................3
         2.18  Plan Administrator............................................3
         2.19  Plan Year.....................................................4
         2.20  Prior Plan....................................................4
         2.21  Retirement....................................................4
         2.22  Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount.................................4
         2.23  Stock Option Gains............................................4
         2.24  Termination of Employment.....................................4
         2.25  Tricon........................................................4
         2.26  Valuation Date................................................4

ARTICLE  III PARTICIPATION...................................................6

         3.1  Eligibility to Participate.....................................6
         3.2  Deferral Election..............................................6
         3.3  Time and Manner of Deferral Election...........................7
         3.4  Period of Deferral.............................................8


                                      -i-

ARTICLE IV  INTEREST OF PARTICIPANTS.........................................9

         4.1  Accounting for Participants' Interests.........................9
         4.2  Vesting of a Participant's Account............................11
         4.3  Risk of Forfeiture Subaccounts................................11
         4.4  Distribution of a Participant's Account.......................13
         4.5  Acceleration of Payment for Certain Hardships.................15

ARTICLE V  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR...............................................16

         5.1  Plan Administrator............................................16
         5.2  Action........................................................16
         5.3  Right and Duties..............................................16
         5.4  Compensation, Indemnity and Liability.........................17
         5.5  Taxes.........................................................17

ARTICLE VI  CLAIMS PROCEDURE................................................18

         6.1  Claims for Benefits...........................................18
         6.2  Appeals.......................................................18

ARTICLE VII  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION......................................19

         7.1  Amendments....................................................19
         7.2  Termination of Plan...........................................19

ARTICLE VIII  MISCELLANEOUS.................................................20

         8.1  Limitation on Participant's Rights............................20
         8.2  Unfunded Obligation of Individual Employer....................20
         8.3  Other Plans...................................................20
         8.4  Receipt or Release............................................20
         8.5  Governing Law.................................................20
         8.6  Adoption of Plan by Related Employers.........................20
         8.7  Gender, Tense, and Headings...................................20
         8.8  Successors and Assigns; Nonalienation of Benefits.............20
         8.9  Facility of Payment...........................................21
         8.10  Separate Plans...............................................21

APPENDIX.................................................................App-i


ARTICLE A  SPINOFF FROM PEPSICO..........................................A-1




                                      -ii-


                                    ARTICLE I

                                  INTRODUCTION

     Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc. (the "Company") has established the Tricon
Executive Income Deferral Program (the "Plan") to permit eligible  executives to
defer  base  pay,  certain  cash  awards  made  under  its  executive  incentive
compensation programs, and gains on options under the Tricon Global Restaurants,
Inc.  1997 Long Term  Incentive  Plan.  The Plan is a  successor  to the PepsiCo
Executive Income Deferral Program.

     Except as otherwise  provided,  this  document  sets forth the terms of the
Plan as in effect on October 7, 1997. As of that date, it specifies the group of
executives  of the  Company and certain  affiliated  employers  eligible to make
deferrals,  the  procedures  for electing to defer  compensation  and the Plan's
provisions  for  maintaining  and paying out  amounts  that have been  deferred.
Additional  provisions  applicable  to certain  executives  are set forth in the
Appendix, which modifies and supplements the general provisions of the Plan.

     The Plan is unfunded and unsecured. Amounts deferred by an executive are an
obligation  of  that  executive's  individual  employer.  With  respect  to  his
employer, the executive has the rights of a general creditor.





                                   ARTICLE II

                                   DEFINITIONS

     When used in this  Plan,  the  following  underlined  terms  shall have the
meanings set forth below unless a different  meaning is plainly  required by the
context:

     2.1 Account:  The account  maintained for a Participant on the books of his
Employer to determine,  from time to time, the Participant's interest under this
Plan. The balance in such Account shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.
Each Participant's Account shall consist of at least one Deferral Subaccount for
each separate  deferral under Section 3.2. In accordance  with Section 4.3, some
or all of a separate  deferral may be held in a Risk of  Forfeiture  Subaccount.
The Plan  Administrator  may also  establish such  additional  subaccounts as it
deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. Where appropriate,  a
reference  to  a  Participant's  Account  shall  include  a  reference  to  each
applicable subaccount that has been established thereunder.

     2.2 Base  Compensation:  An eligible  Employee's  adjusted base salary,  as
determined by the Plan Administrator and to the extent paid in U.S. dollars from
an Employer's  U.S.  payroll.  For any applicable  payroll  period,  an eligible
Employee's  adjusted  base  salary  shall be  determined  after  reductions  for
applicable  tax  withholdings,   Employee   authorized   deductions   (including
deductions  for SaveUp,  Benefits Plus and  charitable  donations),  tax levies,
garnishments  and such other  amounts as the Plan  Administrator  recognizes  as
reducing the amount of base salary available for deferral.

     2.3  Beneficiary:   The  person  or  persons  who  a  Participant  properly
designates,  as determined by the Plan Administrator,  to receive the amounts in
one or more of the  Participant's  subaccounts in the event of the Participant's
death. To be effective,  any Beneficiary  designation must be in writing, signed
by  the  Participant,  and  filed  with  the  Plan  Administrator  prior  to the
Participant's  death,  and it  must  meet  such  other  standards  as  the  Plan
Administrator shall require from time to time. If no designation is in effect at
the  time of a  Participant's  death  or if all  designated  Beneficiaries  have
predeceased the Participant,  then the  Participant's  Beneficiary  shall be his
estate.  A  Beneficiary  designation  of an  individual  by name  (or  name  and
relationship)  remains  in effect  regardless  of any  change in the  designated
individual's  relationship to the Participant.  A Beneficiary designation solely
by relationship (for example,  a designation of "spouse," that does not give the
name of the spouse) shall designate  whoever is the person in that  relationship
to the  Participant  at his death.  An individual who is otherwise a Beneficiary
with respect to a  Participant's  Account  ceases to be a  Beneficiary  when all
payments have been made from the Account.

     2.4 Bonus  Compensation:  An eligible  Employee's adjusted annual incentive
award under his  Employer's  annual  incentive  plan or the Executive  Incentive
Compensation  Plan, as determined and adjusted by the Plan  Administrator and to
the extent paid in U.S.  dollars from an Employer's  U.S.  payroll.  An eligible
Employee's  annual  incentive  awards  shall  be  adjusted  to  reduce  them for
applicable  tax  withholdings,   Employee   authorized   deductions   (including
deductions  for SaveUp,  Benefits Plus and  charitable  donations),  tax levies,
garnishments  and such other  amounts as the Plan  Administrator  recognizes  as
reducing the amount of such awards available for deferral.

     2.5 Code: The Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

     2.6 Company: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., a North Carolina corporation,
or its successor or successors.

     2.7 Deferral Subaccount: A subaccount of a Participant's Account maintained
to reflect  his  interest  in the Plan  attributable  to each  deferral  of Base
Compensation,  Bonus  Compensation,  Performance  Unit  Payout 


and Stock Option Gains,  respectively,  and earnings or losses  credited to such
subaccount in accordance with Section 4.1(b).

     2.8 Discount Stock Subaccount: A Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount that permits
an eligible  Employee  to defer  Bonus  Compensation  for  investment  solely in
discounted phantom Tricon Common Stock, in accordance with Section 4.3(a).

     2.9 Effective Date: October 7, 1997.

     2.10 Election Form: The form prescribed by the Plan  Administrator on which
a Participant specifies the amount of his Base Compensation,  Bonus Compensation
Performance  Unit Payout,  or Stock Option Gains to be deferred  pursuant to the
provisions of Article III.

     2.11 Employee:  Any person in a salaried  classification of an Employer who
(i) is receiving  remuneration for personal  services rendered in the employment
of the  Employer,  (ii) is either a United  States  citizen or a resident  alien
lawfully  admitted for permanent  residence in the United  States,  and (iii) is
paid in U.S. dollars from the Employer's U.S. payroll.

     2.12  Employer:  The Company  and each of the  Company's  subsidiaries  and
affiliates   that  is   currently   designated   as  an  Employer  by  the  Plan
Administrator.

     2.13  ERISA:  The  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
amended.

     2.14  Fair  Market  Value:  For  purposes  of  converting  a  Participant's
deferrals to Tricon Common Stock as of any date, the Fair Market Value of Tricon
Common Stock is determined as the average of the high and low price on such date
for Tricon Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities  listed
on the New York Stock  Exchange,  Inc.,  rounded  to four  decimal  places.  For
purposes of determining  the value of a Plan  distribution  or for  reallocating
amounts between phantom investment options under the Plan, the Fair Market Value
of Tricon  Common Stock or PepsiCo  Capital  Stock is  determined as the closing
price  on  the  applicable   Valuation  Date  (identified   based  on  the  Plan
Administrator's  current  procedures) for PepsiCo or Tricon stock,  whichever is
applicable,  as reported on the composite tape for securities  listed on the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc., rounded to four decimal places.

     2.15  Participant:  Any Employee  eligible  pursuant to Section 3.1 who has
satisfied  the  requirements  for  participation  in  this  Plan  and who has an
Account. A Participant  includes any individual who deferred  compensation under
the Prior Plan prior to the Effective  Date and for whom any Employer  maintains
on its books an Account for such deferred compensation as of the Effective Date.
An active Participant is one who is currently deferring under Section 3.2.

     2.16 Performance Unit Payout:  The adjusted  performance unit award payable
to an Employee  under the Company's Long Term Incentive Plan during a Plan Year,
to the extent paid in U.S. dollars from an Employer's U.S. payroll.  An eligible
Employee's  performance unit award shall be adjusted to reduce it for applicable
tax withholdings,  Employee authorized deductions, tax levies,  garnishments and
such other amounts as the Plan  Administrator  recognizes as reducing the amount
of such awards available for deferral.

     2.17 Plan:  The Tricon  Executive  Income  Deferral  Program,  as it may be
amended from time to time.

     2.18  Plan  Administrator:  The  Compensation  Committee  of the  Board  of
Directors of the Company, or its delegate or delegates.


     2.19 Plan Year: The 12-month period from January 1 to December 31, provided
that the  initial  plan  year  shall be a short  plan  year  that  begins on the
Effective Date and ends on December 31 of the same year.

     2.20 Prior Plan:  The PepsiCo  Executive  Income  Deferral  Program,  as in
effect for periods before the Effective Date.

     2.21 Retirement: Termination of service with the Company and its affiliates
after attaining  eligibility for retirement.  A Participant  attains eligibility
for retirement when he attains at least age 55 with 10 or more years of service,
at least  age 65 with 5 or more  years of  service  or at least age 70 with 3 or
more years of service (whichever occurs earliest) while in the employment of the
Company or its affiliates. A Participant's Service is determined under the terms
of the Tricon Salaried Employees Retirement Plan.

     2.22 Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount:  The subaccount provided for by Section
4.3 to  contain  the  portion  of each  separate  deferral  that is  subject  to
forfeiture.

     2.23 Stock  Option  Gains:  The gains on an eligible  Employee's  Long Term
Incentive  Plan Stock  Options that are  available  for deferral  under the Plan
pursuant to Section 3.3(c). With respect to any options that are made subject to
a Stock  Option  Gain  deferral  election,  the gains on such  options  shall be
determined  through a sale of related shares by the Plan  Administrator  net of:
(i) the exercise price of the options,  (ii) any transaction costs incurred when
such  gains are  captured  through  the sale of  related  shares,  and (iii) any
related  taxes that the Plan  Administrator  determines  will not  otherwise  be
satisfied by the Participant. For purposes of such sales, the Plan Administrator
may aggregate shares related to the options of different Participants, sell them
over one or more days and  divide the net  proceeds  from such  aggregate  sales
between the Participants in a reasonable manner.  The Plan  Administrator  shall
have  absolute  discretion  with respect to the timing and  aggregation  of such
sales.

     2.24  Termination of Employment:  A  Participant's  cessation of employment
with  the  Company,  all  Employers  and  all  other  Company  subsidiaries  and
affiliates (as defined for this purpose by the Plan Administrator). For purposes
of determining  forfeitures  under Section 4.3 and  distributing a Participant's
Account under Section 4.4, the following shall apply:

          (a) A Participant  does not have a Termination of Employment  when the
     business  unit or division of the Company  that  employs him is sold if the
     Participant and  substantially  all employees of that entity continue to be
     employed by the entity or its successor after the sale. A Participant  also
     does not have a  Termination  of  Employment  when  the  subsidiary  of the
     Company  that employs him is sold if: (i) the  Participant  continues to be
     employed  by the  entity or its  successor  after  the  sale,  and (ii) the
     Participant's  interest in the Plan  continues to be carried as a liability
     by that  entity  or its  successor  after  the  sale  through  a  successor
     arrangement.  In each case,  the  Participant's  Termination  of Employment
     shall occur upon the Participant's post-sale termination of employment from
     such  entity  or  its  successor  (and  their  related  organizations,   as
     determined by the Plan Administrator).

          (b) With respect to any individual deferral,  the term "Termination of
     Employment" may encompass a Participant's  death or death may be considered
     a separate  event,  depending upon the  convention  the Plan  Administrator
     follows with respect to such deferral.

     2.25 Tricon: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.

     2.26 Valuation Date: Each date as of which Participant  Accounts are valued
in accordance  with procedures of the Plan  Administrator  that are currently in
effect.  As of the Effective  Date,  the Valuation  Dates are March 31, June 30,
September  30 and  December  31.  Values  are  determined  as of the  close of a
Valuation  Date or, if such date is not a business  day,  as of the close of the
immediately preceding business day.





                                   ARTICLE III

                                  PARTICIPATION

     3.1 Eligibility to Participate.

     (a) An  Employee  shall be eligible  to defer  compensation  under the Plan
while  employed by the Employer  and  classified  as being in executive  status.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, from time to time the Plan Administrator
may modify,  limit or expand the class of Employees eligible to defer hereunder,
pursuant to criteria for  eligibility  that need not be uniform among all or any
group of  Employees.  During  the  period  an  individual  satisfies  all of the
eligibility requirements of this section, he shall be referred to as an eligible
Employee.

     (b) Each eligible  Employee  becomes an active  Participant  on the date an
amount is first  withheld  from his  compensation  pursuant to an Election  Form
submitted by the Employee to the Plan Administrator under Section 3.3.

     (c) An individual's eligibility to participate actively by making deferrals
under Section 3.2 shall cease upon the earlier of:

          (1) The  date he  ceases  to be an  Employee  who is  employed  by the
     Employer and classified as in executive status; or

          (2) The  date  the  Employee  ceases  to be  eligible  under  criteria
     described in the last sentence of subsection (a) above.

     (d) An  individual,  who has been an  active  Participant  under  the Plan,
ceases to be a Participant on the date his Account is fully paid out.

     3.2 Deferral Election.

     (a) Each eligible Employee may make an election to defer under the Plan any
whole  percentage  (up to 100%) of his Base  Compensation,  Bonus  Compensation,
Performance Unit Payout or Stock Option Gains in the manner described in Section
3.3. Any amount of Base Compensation deferred by an eligible Employee for a Plan
Year will be deducted each pay period during the Plan Year for which he has Base
Compensation and is an eligible  Employee.  The amount of Bonus  Compensation or
Performance Unit Payout deferred by an Eligible Employee for a Plan Year will be
deducted from his payment under the applicable  compensation program at the time
it would  otherwise  be made,  provided he remains an eligible  Employee at such
time. Any Stock Option Gains deferred by an eligible  Employee shall be captured
as of the date or dates applicable for the category of underlying  options under
procedures   adopted  by  the  Plan   Administrator,   provided  that  the  Plan
Administrator  determines  the  eligible  Employee's  rights in such options may
still be recognized at such time.




     (b) To be effective,  an Eligible  Employee's  Election Form must set forth
the percentage of Base  Compensation,  Bonus  Compensation  or Performance  Unit
Payout to be deferred  (or for a deferral of Stock  Option  Gains,  the specific
options on which any gains are to be  deferred),  the  investment  choice  under
Section 4.1 (which investment choice shall be stated in multiples of 5 percent),
the deferral  period under  Section  3.4,  the eligible  Employee's  Beneficiary
designation,  and any  other  information  that  may be  requested  by the  Plan
Administrator  from time to time.  In addition,  the Election Form must meet the
requirements of Section 3.3 below.

     3.3 Time and Manner of Deferral Election.

     (a) Deferrals of Base Compensation.  Subject to the next two sentences,  an
eligible  Employee must make a deferral election for a Plan Year with respect to
Base  Compensation  at least two months prior to the Plan Year in which the Base
Compensation  would  otherwise  be paid.  An  individual  who newly  becomes  an
eligible  Employee during a Plan Year (or less than three months prior to a Plan
Year) may make a deferral  election with respect to Base Compensation to be paid
during  the  balance  of the  current  Plan Year  within 30 days of the date the
individual  becomes an eligible  Employee.  Such an individual  may also make an
election at this time with  respect to Base  Compensation  to be paid during the
next Plan Year.

     (b) Deferrals of Bonus  Compensation and Performance Unit Payouts.  Subject
to the next two sentences,  an eligible  Employee must make a deferral  election
for a Plan Year with  respect  to his Bonus  Compensation  or  Performance  Unit
Payout  at  least  six  months  prior  to the  Plan  Year  in  which  the  Bonus
Compensation  or Performance  Unit Payout would otherwise be paid. An individual
who newly becomes an eligible Employee may make a deferral election with respect
to his Bonus  Compensation  or  Performance  Unit  Payout to be paid  during the
succeeding Plan Year so long as the deferral  election is made within 30 days of
the date the individual  becomes an eligible Employee and prior to the first day
of such succeeding  Plan Year. In the first Plan Year, an eligible  Employee may
make  a  deferral  election  until  October  31,  1997  with  respect  to  Bonus
Compensation payable in the following year.

     (c)  Deferrals  of  Stock  Option  Gains.  From  time  to  time,  the  Plan
Administrator  shall  notify  eligible  Employees  with  outstanding  Long  Term
Incentive  Plan Options which options then qualify for deferral of their related
Stock Option Gains. An eligible Employee who has qualifying  options must make a
deferral  election  with  respect to his related  Stock  Option Gains at least 6
months before such qualifying  options' proposed capture date (as defined below)
or, if earlier,  in the calendar year preceding the year of the proposed capture
date.  The  "proposed  capture  date" for a set of options shall be the earliest
date that the Plan  Administrator  would  capture a  Participant's  Stock Option
Gains in accordance with the deferral agreement prepared for such purpose by the
Plan Administrator.

     (d) General Provisions.  A separate deferral election under (a), (b) or (c)
above must be made by an eligible  Employee  for each  category of a Plan Year's
compensation  that is eligible for deferral.  If an eligible  Employee  fails to
file a properly completed and executed Election Form with the Plan Administrator
by the prescribed  time, he will be deemed to have elected not to defer any Base
Compensation, Bonus Compensation, Performance Unit Payout or Stock Option Gains,
as the case may be, for the  applicable  Plan Year.  An election is  irrevocable
once received and determined by the Plan Administrator to be properly completed.
Increases or decreases in the amount or percentage a Participant elects to defer
shall not be permitted during a Plan Year.  Notwithstanding  the preceding three
sentences, to the extent necessary because of extraordinary  circumstances,  the
Plan  Administrator may grant an extension of any election period and may permit
(to the extent  necessary to avoid undue  hardship to an eligible  Employee) the
complete  revocation of an election with respect to future  deferrals.  Any such
extension  or  revocation  shall be  available  only if the  Plan  Administrator


determines  it shall not  trigger  constructive  receipt of income and only upon
such conditions as may be required by the Plan Administrator.

     (e)  Beneficiaries.  A  Participant  designates  on  the  Election  Form  a
Beneficiary to receive payment in the event of his death of amounts  credited to
his  Account.  A  Beneficiary  is  paid  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  a
Participant's  Election  Form,  as  interpreted  by the  Plan  Administrator  in
accordance  with the terms of this Plan. At any time, a Participant may change a
Beneficiary  designation  for any or all subaccounts in a writing that is signed
by  the  Participant  and  filed  with  the  Plan  Administrator  prior  to  the
Participant's   death,   and  that  meets  such  other  standards  as  the  Plan
Administrator shall require from time to time.

     3.4 Period of Deferral.  An eligible  Employee  making a deferral  election
shall specify a deferral  period on his Election Form by  designating a specific
payout date,  one or more specific  payout events or both a date and one or more
specific  events  from  the  choices  that are made  available  to the  eligible
Employee by the Plan  Administrator.  Subject to the next sentence,  an eligible
Employee's  elected  period of deferral  shall run until the earliest  occurring
date or event  specified  on his  Election  Form.  Notwithstanding  an  eligible
Employee's actual election, an eligible Employee shall be deemed to have elected
a period of deferral of not less than:

     (a) For Base Compensation, at least until January 1 of the second Plan Year
following the Plan Year during which the Base Compensation  would have been paid
absent the  deferral  (until 6 months  after the Plan Year during which the Base
Compensation  would  have been  paid for  deferral  elections  made  before  the
Effective Date);

     (b) For  Bonus  Compensation,  at least 2 years  after  the date the  Bonus
Compensation  would have been paid  absent  the  deferral  (1 year for  deferral
elections made before the Effective Date);

     (c) For  Performance  Unit  Payouts,  at least 2 years  after  the date the
Performance  Unit Payout  would have been paid  absent the  deferral (1 year for
deferral elections made before the Effective Date); and

     (d) For  Stock  Option  Gains,  at least 2 years  after  the date the Stock
Option  Gain  is  credited  to a  Deferral  Subaccount  for the  benefit  of the
Participant (1 year for deferral elections made before the Effective Date).





                                   ARTICLE IV

                            INTERESTS OF PARTICIPANTS

     4.1 Accounting for Participants' Interests.

     (a) Deferral  Subaccounts.  Each Participant shall have a separate Deferral
Subaccount   credited  with  the  amount  of  each  separate  deferral  of  Base
Compensation, Bonus Compensation,  Performance Unit Payout or Stock Option Gains
made by the  Participant  under this Plan.  A  Participant's  deferral  shall be
credited  to his  Account  as soon as  practicable  following  the date when the
deferral  of   compensation   actually   occurs,   as  determined  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  A  Participant's  Account is a  bookkeeping  device to track the
value of his deferrals (and his Employer's liability therefor).  No assets shall
be reserved or segregated in connection  with any Account,  and no Account shall
be insured or otherwise secured.

     (b) Account Earnings or Losses.  As of each Valuation Date, a Participant's
Account  shall be  credited  with  earnings  and gains (and shall be debited for
expenses and losses)  determined  as if the amounts  credited to his Account had
actually been invested as directed by the  Participant  in accordance  with this
section (as  modified  by Section  4.3).  The Plan  provides  only for  "phantom
investments,"  and  therefore  such  earnings,  gains,  expenses  and losses are
hypothetical and not actual. However, they shall be applied to measure the value
of a  Participant's  Account and the amount of his Employer's  liability to make
deferred payments to or on behalf of the Participant.

     (c) Investment  Options.  Each of a Participant's  Subaccounts  (other than
those containing Stock Option Gains) shall be invested on a phantom basis in any
combination  of phantom  investment  options  specified by the  Participant  (or
following the Participant's death, by his Beneficiary) from those offered by the
Plan Administrator  from time to time.  Subsection (f) below governs the phantom
investment  options  available  for  deferrals of Stock Option  Gains.  The Plan
Administrator may discontinue any phantom investment option with respect to some
or all  Accounts,  and it may  provide  for  shifting  a  Participant's  phantom
investment  from the  discontinued  option  to a  specified  replacement  option
(unless the Participant  selects another  replacement  option in accordance with
such  requirements  as the Plan  Administrator  may apply).  As of the Effective
Date, the phantom investment options are:

          (1) Prime Rate Account.  Participant Accounts invested in this phantom
     option accrue a return based upon the prime rate of interest announced from
     time to time by  Citibank,  N.A. (or another  bank  designated  by the Plan
     Administrator  from time to time).  Returns  accrue during the period since
     the last  Valuation  Date  based on the  prime  rate in effect on the first
     business day after such  Valuation  Date and are  compounded  annually.  An
     amount  deferred  or  transferred  into this  option is  credited  with the
     applicable rate of return beginning with the date as of which the amount is
     invested in this option by the Plan Administrator.

          (2) Tricon Phantom Stock  Account.  Participant  Accounts  invested in
     this phantom  option are adjusted to reflect an investment in Tricon Common
     Stock. An amount  deferred or transferred  into this option is converted to
     phantom shares of Tricon Common Stock of equivalent  value by dividing such
     amount by the Fair Market  Value of a share of Tricon  Common  Stock on the
     date as of  which  the  amount  is  invested  in this  option  by the  Plan
     Administrator.  Only whole shares are determined. Any remaining amount (and
     all  amounts  that  would be  received  by the  Account  as  dividends,  if
     dividends were paid on phantom shares of Tricon Common Stock as they are on
     actual  shares) are credited to a dividend  subaccount  that is invested in
     the phantom option in paragraph (1) above (the Prime Rate Account).


                    (i) A  Participant's  interest  in the Tricon  Common  Stock
               Account  is  valued as of a  Valuation  Date by  multiplying  the
               number of phantom shares  credited to his Account on such date by
               the Fair Market  Value of a share of Tricon  Common Stock on such
               date,  and then  adding the value of the  Participant's  dividend
               subaccount.

                    (ii) If shares of Tricon  Common  Stock  change by reason of
               any  stock  split,  stock  dividend,  recapitalization,   merger,
               consolidation,   spinoff,  combination  or  exchange  of  shares,
               complete  or  partial  liquidation  or  other  similar  corporate
               change, such equitable  adjustment shall be made in the number of
               shares   credited  to  an  Account  or  subaccount  as  the  Plan
               Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

                    In no event will shares of Tricon  Common Stock  actually be
               purchased or held under this Plan, and no Participant  shall have
               any rights as a shareholder  of Tricon Common Stock on account of
               an interest in this phantom option.

               (3) SaveUp  Accounts.  From time to time, the Plan  Administrator
          shall  designate  which of the investment  options under the Company's
          Long  Term  Savings  Plan  (SaveUp)  shall  be  available  as  phantom
          investment  options under this Plan. As of the  Effective  Date,  such
          available phantom options are the Equity-Index Account,  Equity-Income
          Account, and the Security Plus Account.  Participant Accounts invested
          in these phantom  options are adjusted to reflect an investment in the
          corresponding  investment  options under SaveUp. An amount deferred or
          transferred into one of these options is converted to phantom units in
          the applicable SaveUp fund of equivalent value by dividing such amount
          by the value of a unit in such fund on the date as of which the amount
          is invested in this option by the Plan  Administrator.  Thereafter,  a
          Participant's  interest in each such phantom  option is valued as of a
          Valuation Date by multiplying  the number of phantom units credited to
          his  Account  on such  date by the  value of a unit in the  applicable
          SaveUp fund.

     (d) Method of  Allocation.  With  respect  to any  deferral  election  by a
Participant, the Participant must use his Election Form to allocate the deferral
in 5 percent increments among the phantom investment options then offered by the
Plan  Administrator.  Thereafter,  except for amounts  invested in the  Discount
Stock Account,  a Participant may reallocate  previously  deferred  amounts in a
subaccount by properly  completing  and submitting a fund transfer form provided
by  the  Plan  Administrator  and  specifying,  in  5  percent  increments,  the
reallocation of his Subaccount among the phantom investment options then offered
by the Plan  Administrator.  Any such transfer form shall be effective as of the
Valuation  Date that follows its receipt by at least the number of days that the
Plan  Administrator  specifies  for this purpose from time to time. If more than
one transfer form is received on a timely basis for a  subaccount,  the transfer
form  that the Plan  Administrator  determines  to be the most  recent  shall be
followed.



     (e)  Investment  Choices for Stock Option Gains.  Deferrals of Stock Option
gains initially may be invested only in the Tricon Common Stock Account.  In the
case of a Participant  who has attained his Retirement,  the Plan  Administrator
may make available some or all of the other phantom investment options described
in subsection (c) above. In this case, any election to reallocate the balance in
the  Participant's  applicable  Deferral  Subaccount  shall be  governed  by the
foregoing provisions of this section.

     4.2 Vesting of a Participant's Account.  Except as provided in Section 4.3,
a  Participant's  interest in the value of his Account shall at all times be 100
percent  vested,  which  means  that it will  not  forfeit  as a  result  of his
Termination of Employment.

     4.3 Risk of  Forfeiture  Subaccounts.  This  section  provides two separate
opportunities  for eligible  Participants to invest their deferrals subject to a
risk of forfeiture for certain Terminations of Employment.

     (a) Discount  Stock.  Beginning after the Effective Date, a Participant may
elect to defer his Bonus Compensation for each year to a separate Discount Stock
Subaccount in accordance with this subsection. For investment purposes, any such
deferral  shall be treated as if it were  invested in the Tricon  Phantom  Stock
Account, except that the number of phantom shares allocated to the Participant's
Discount Stock Subaccount shall initially be determined by dividing his deferral
amount by 75 percent of the Fair Market Value of Tricon Common Stock on the date
as of which the amount is credited  to the  Discount  Stock  Account by the Plan
Administrator.

          (1)  Forfeitures.  A  Participant  shall  forfeit  the  entire  amount
     credited to his Discount Stock Subaccount (as adjusted for changes in value
     under Section  4.1(b)) if he has a Termination  of Employment  prior to the
     second anniversary of the date as of which his deferral was credited to the
     subaccount (the "Second Anniversary").  Notwithstanding the prior sentence,
     if the Plan  Administrator  determines that the  Participant's  termination
     prior to the Second Anniversary was:

               (i) An involuntary  termination  without cause, the amount in the
          subaccount  shall be  recalculated to equal the original amount of the
          Participant's deferral to the subaccount,  but there shall be no other
          forfeiture;

               (ii) On account of total disability or death, no forfeiture shall
          occur;

               (iii) On account of Retirement  after  attaining at least age 65,
          no forfeiture shall occur;

               (iv) On account of  Retirement  before age 65 but on or after the
          first anniversary of the date as of which the deferral was credited to
          the Participant's subaccount (the "First Anniversary"),  no forfeiture
          shall occur; or

               (v) On account of  Retirement  before age 65 and before the First
          Anniversary,  the amount in the subaccount  shall be  recalculated  to
          eliminate a prorated portion of the total value of the discount (which
          shall  include any related  phantom  stock  appreciation  and dividend
          equivalents), but there shall be no other forfeiture.



               For  purposes  of  subparagraph  (v)  above,  the  portion of the
          discount  that shall be  eliminated  shall be calculated by taking (I)
          the total value of the discount,  multiplying it by (II) the number of
          days from the  Participant's  Termination  of  Employment to the First
          Anniversary, and dividing this product by (III) 365.

          (2) Transfer  Restrictions:  Amounts  deferred  into a Discount  Stock
     Subaccount  must remain invested in phantom Tricon Common Stock and may not
     be transferred into another phantom investment.

     (b) Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture. A Participant may elect to defer Base
Compensation,  Bonus  Compensation  or  Performance  Unit  Payouts  to a Risk of
Forfeiture  Subaccount provided for in this subsection (a "Grandfathered Risk of
Forfeiture  Subaccount")  only if: (i) he had,  as of June 1,  1994,  a deferred
compensation  subaccount  under the Prior  Plan  maintained  under a  forfeiture
agreement (as defined below), and (ii) he is not yet eligible to retire when the
first  amount  would be  deferred  pursuant  to his  current  risk-of-forfeiture
election.  A  "forfeiture  agreement"  is an  agreement  with the  Company,  any
Employer,  or one of their  predecessors  providing that the subaccount would be
forfeited if the employee  terminated  employment  voluntarily  or on account of
misconduct prior to Retirement.  A Participant who meets these  requirements may
elect under Article III to defer some or all of his eligible  compensation  to a
Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount subject to the following terms.

          (1) A Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount will be terminated
     and  forfeited  in the event  that the  Participant  has a  Termination  of
     Employment  that is  voluntary  or because of his  misconduct  prior to the
     earliest of:

               (i) The end of the  deferral  period  designated  in his Election
          Form for such deferral;

               (ii) The date the Participant becomes eligible for Retirement; or

               (iii) The date  indicated on his Election  Form as the end of the
          risk of forfeiture  condition  (but not before  completing the minimum
          risk of forfeiture period required by the Plan Administrator from time
          to time).

          (2) A Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount shall become fully
     vested (and shall cease to be a Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount) when:

               (i) The  Participant  reaches any of the dates in  paragraph  (1)
          above while still employed by the Company or one of its affiliates, or

               (ii) On the date the Participant  terminates  involuntarily  from
          his  Employer   (including  death  and  termination  for  disability),
          provided that such termination is not for his misconduct.



          (3)  No  amounts  credited  to  a  Grandfathered  Risk  of  Forfeiture
     Subaccount may be transferred  to a subaccount of the  Participant  that is
     not a Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount. No amounts credited to a
     subaccount  of  the  Participant  that  is  not  a  Grandfathered  Risk  of
     Forfeiture  Subaccount  may  be  transferred  to a  Grandfathered  Risk  of
     Forfeiture Subaccount.

          (4) A  Participant  may  initially  direct  and  then  reallocate  his
     Grandfathered  Risk  of  Forfeiture   Subaccount  to  any  of  the  phantom
     investment  options  under the Plan that are  currently  available for such
     direction or reallocation,  whichever  applies.  During the period before a
     Grandfathered  Risk  of  Forfeiture  Subaccount  ceases  to  be a  Risk  of
     Forfeiture Subaccount,  the return under any such phantom investment option
     shall be supplemented as follows.

               (i)  In  the  case  of  the  Tricon  Common  Stock  Account,  the
          Participant's dividend subaccount thereunder shall be credited with an
          additional  year-end dividend amount equal to 2 percent of the average
          closing  price  of  Tricon  Common  Stock  for  the 30  business  days
          preceding  the end of the  Company's  fiscal  year  multiplied  by the
          number of  phantom  shares  of Tricon  Common  Stock  credited  to the
          Participant's  Account as of the end of the year. If the Participant's
          subaccount was not a Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount for
          the  entire  year (or if the  Participant  reallocated  amounts to the
          Tricon Common Stock  Account after the beginning of the year),  this 2
          percent additional  dividend will be prorated down  appropriately,  as
          determined by the Plan Administrator.  In addition,  the Participant's
          dividend  subaccount  shall earn  interest at a rate that is 2 percent
          above the rate ordinarily  applicable under the Prime Rate Account for
          the  period  that  it  is  contained   within  a  Risk  of  Forfeiture
          Subaccount.

               (ii)  In the  case  of any  other  available  phantom  investment
          option,  the return on each such option shall be supplemented  with an
          additional  2% annual  return for the period  that it is held within a
          Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount (but prorated for periods
          of such investment of less than a year).

     4.4 Distribution of a Participant's  Account. A Participant's Account shall
be distributed  as provided in this Section 4.4. Any Discount  Stock  Subaccount
and the portion of any other  subaccount  that is invested in the Tricon  Common
Stock  Account  may be  distributed,  at the  option of the Plan  Administrator,
either in the form of cash or in whole shares of Tricon  Common Stock (with cash
for any  partial  share  and the  value  of the  dividend  account).  All  other
subaccount balances shall be distributed in cash.

     (a)  Scheduled  Payout  Date.  With  respect  to  a  specific  deferral,  a
Participant's  "Scheduled  Payout  Date" shall be the  earliest to occur date or
event of those selected by the  Participant for such deferral in accordance with
Section 3.4. Notwithstanding the prior sentence:

          (1) In the case of a deferral of Stock Option Gains,  a  Participant's
     Scheduled  Payout  Date  for  such  deferral  shall  be the  date  he has a
     Termination  of Employment  other than for death,  disability or Retirement
     (or two years after the date of the  deferral,  if that would be later than
     such Termination of Employment), and



          (2) In the case of a  deferral  into a  Discount  Stock  Account  that
     (under Section  4.3(a)(1)(i))  has been  recalculated to equal the original
     amount  of the  deferral  in  connection  with an  involuntary  termination
     without cause, a Participant's  Scheduled  Payout Date for the recalculated
     amount shall be the date of such  termination  (or two years after the date
     of the deferral, if that would be later than such termination).

     Unless an election has been made in accordance  with  subsection (b) below,
the Participant's subaccount containing the deferral shall be distributed to the
Participant in a single lump sum as soon as practicable  following the Scheduled
Payout Date.

     (b) Payment  Election.  A  Participant  may delay  receipt of a  subaccount
beyond its Scheduled Payout Date, or elect to receive installments rather than a
lump sum, by making a payment election under this subsection. A payment election
must be made by the  calendar  year  before the year  containing  the  Scheduled
Payout Date (or if earlier, at least 6 months before the Scheduled Payout Date).
Any  payment  election  to  receive a lump sum at a later  time  must  specify a
revised  payout date that is at least 2 years after the  Scheduled  Payout Date.
Any payment election to receive installment payments in lieu of a lump sum shall
specify the amount (or method for  determining)  each  installment  and a set of
revised  payout  dates,  the last of which  must be at least 2 years  after  the
Scheduled Payout Date. With respect to any subaccount,  only one election may be
made under this  subsection.  Beneficiaries  are not permitted to make elections
under this  subsection.  In addition,  an election under this subsection may not
delay the  distribution  of an amount for which the  Scheduled  Payment  Date is
determined under subsection  (a)(1) or (2) above.  Actual payments shall be made
as soon as practicable following a revised payout date.

     (c)  Valuation.  In determining  the amount of any individual  distribution
pursuant to subsection  (a) or (b) above,  the  Participant's  subaccount  shall
continue to be credited  with  earnings  and gains (and debited for expenses and
losses)  under  Sections  4.1 and 4.3 until the  Valuation  Date  preceding  the
Scheduled Payout Date or revised payout date for such distribution (whichever is
applicable).  In determining the value of a Participant's  remaining  subaccount
following an  installment  distribution,  such  installment  distribution  shall
reduce  the  value  of  the  Participant's  subaccount  as of the  close  of the
Valuation Date preceding the revised payout date for such installment.

     (d) Limitations.  The following limitations apply to distributions from the
Plan.

          (1)  Installments  may  only  be  made  quarterly,   semi-annually  or
     annually,  for a period of no more than 20  years,  and not later  than the
     Participant's 80th birthday (or what would have been his 80th birthday,  if
     the Participant dies earlier).

          (2) If a Participant has elected a Scheduled Payout Date that would be
     after his 80th birthday,  the  Participant  shall be deemed to have elected
     his 80th birthday as his Scheduled Payout Date.

          (3) If a Participant has elected to defer income,  which would qualify
     as performance-based compensation under Code section 162(m), into a Risk of
     Forfeiture Subaccount, then such subaccount may not be paid out at any time
     while the Participant is a covered  employee under Code section  162(m)(3),
     to the  extent  the  Plan  Administrator  determines  it  would  result  in
     compensation  being paid to the  Participant in such year that would not be
     deductible  under Code section 162(m).  The payout of any such amount shall
     be deferred until a year when the Participant is no longer a section 162(m)
     covered employee. The Plan Administrator may waive the foregoing provisions
     of this paragraph to the extent necessary to avoid an undue hardship to the
     Participant.  This paragraph shall apply  notwithstanding  any provision of
     the Plan to the contrary.


     (e)  Upon a  Participant's  death,  his  Beneficiary  shall  be  paid  each
subaccount  still  standing  to the  Participant's  credit  under  the  Plan  in
accordance  with  the  terms  of the  Participant's  payout  election  for  such
subaccount  under  Section 3.4, or his payment  election  under  subsection  (b)
above, whichever is applicable.

     4.5  Acceleration  of Payment for Certain  Hardships.  Except as  expressly
provided in this Section 4.5, no payments shall be made under this Plan prior to
the date (or dates) applicable under Section 4.4.

     (a) A Participant who is suffering severe financial hardship resulting from
extraordinary  and  unforeseeable  events beyond the control of the  Participant
(and who does not have other funds  reasonably  available that could satisfy the
severe   financial   hardship)  may  file  a  written   request  with  the  Plan
Administrator for accelerated payment of all or a portion of the amount credited
to his  Account.  A committee  composed of  representatives  from the  Company's
Compensation  Department and Law  Department,  or such other parties as the Plan
Administrator  may  specify  from time to time,  shall have sole  discretion  to
determine  whether a  Participant  satisfies  the  requirements  for a  hardship
request  and the  amount  that may be  distributed  (which  shall not exceed the
amount reasonably necessary to alleviate the Participant's hardship).

     (b)  The  Plan   Administrator   may  adjust  the  standards  for  hardship
withdrawals  from time to time to the extent it determines such adjustment to be
necessary to avoid triggering constructive receipt of income under the Plan.

     (c)  A  Beneficiary   may  also  request  a  hardship   distribution   upon
satisfaction  of  the  foregoing  requirements  and  subject  to  the  foregoing
limitations.

     (d) When some or all of a Participant's  subaccount is distributed pursuant
to this section, the distribution and the subaccount shall be valued as provided
by the Plan  Administrator,  using rules patterned after those in Section 4.4(c)
above.




                                    ARTICLE V

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

     5.1  Plan  Administrator.   The  Plan  Administrator  is  the  Compensation
Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the  "Committee") or its delegate
or  delegates,  who shall act within the scope of their  delegation  pursuant to
such operating  guidelines as the Committee  shall  establish from time to time.
The Plan Administrator is responsible for the administration of the Plan.

     5.2  Action.  Action  by the  Committee  may be  taken in  accordance  with
procedures that the Committee adopts from time to time or that the Company's Law
Department determines are legally permissible.

     5.3 Right and Duties.  The Plan  Administrator  shall administer and manage
the Plan and  shall  have all  powers  necessary  to  accomplish  that  purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following:

     (a) To exercise its  discretionary  authority to construe,  interpret,  and
administer this Plan;

     (b) To exercise its discretionary authority to make all decisions regarding
eligibility, participation and deferrals, to make allocations and determinations
required by this Plan, and to maintain records regarding Participants' Accounts;

     (c) To compute and certify to the Employer the amount and kinds of payments
to Participants or their Beneficiaries,  and to determine the time and manner in
which such payments are to be paid;

     (d) To authorize all disbursements by the Employer pursuant to this Plan;

     (e) To maintain (or cause to be maintained)  all the necessary  records for
administration of this Plan;

     (f) To make and publish such rules for the  regulation  of this Plan as are
not inconsistent with the terms hereof;

     (g) To delegate  to other  individuals  or  entities  from time to time the
performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;

     (h)  To  establish  or  to  change  the  phantom   investment   options  or
arrangements under Article IV; and

     (i) To hire agents, accountants,  actuaries,  consultants and legal counsel
to assist in operating and administering the Plan.

The Plan Administrator has the exclusive and discretionary authority to construe
and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of eligibility  for benefits,
to determine  the amount and manner of payment of such  benefits and to make any
determinations that are contemplated by (or permissible under) the terms of this
Plan,  and its  decisions on such matters  will be final and  conclusive  on all
parties.  Any such decision or  determination  shall be made in the absolute and
unrestricted  discretion of the Plan Administrator,  even if (A) such discretion
is  not  expressly  granted  by  the  Plan  provisions  in  question,  or  (B) a
determination  is not expressly  called for by the Plan  provisions in question,
and even though other Plan provisions  expressly grant  discretion or call for a
determination.  In the  event of a review  by a court,  arbitrator  or any other
tribunal, any exercise of the Plan Administrator's discretionary authority shall
not be disturbed unless it is clearly shown to be arbitrary and capricious.


     5.4  Compensation,  Indemnity and Liability.  The Plan  Administrator  will
serve without bond and without compensation for services hereunder. All expenses
of the Plan and the Plan Administrator  will be paid by the Employer.  No member
of the  Committee,  and no individual  acting as the delegate of the  Committee,
shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member or  individual,  nor
for any act or omission on his own part,  excepting his own willful  misconduct.
The Employer  will  indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and
any  individual or individuals  acting as the delegate of the Committee  against
any and all  expenses  and  liabilities,  including  reasonable  legal  fees and
expenses,  arising out of his membership on the Committee (or his serving as the
delegate of the Committee),  excepting only expenses and liabilities arising out
of his own willful misconduct.

     5.5 Taxes.  If the whole or any part of any  Participant's  Account becomes
liable for the payment of any estate,  inheritance,  income,  or other tax which
the Employer may be required to pay or withhold, the Employer will have the full
power and  authority  to  withhold  and pay such tax out of any  moneys or other
property  in its hand for the  account of the  Participant.  The  Employer  will
provide the Participant notice of such withholding. Prior to making any payment,
the Employer may require such releases or other documents from any lawful taxing
authority as it shall deem necessary.




                                   ARTICLE VI

                                CLAIMS PROCEDURE

     6.1  Claims for  Benefits.  If a  Participant  or  Beneficiary  (hereafter,
"Claimant")  does not receive  timely  payment of any benefits which he believes
are due and payable under the Plan, he may make a claim for benefits to the Plan
Administrator.  The claim for benefits  must be in writing and  addressed to the
Plan  Administrator or to the Company.  If the claim for benefits is denied, the
Plan  Administrator will notify the Claimant in writing within 90 days after the
Plan  Administrator  initially received the benefit claim.  However,  if special
circumstances  require an extension of time for processing  the claim,  the Plan
Administrator  will furnish notice of the extension to the Claimant prior to the
termination  of the initial  90-day period and such extension may not exceed one
additional, consecutive 90-day period. Any notice of a denial of benefits should
advise the  Claimant of the basis for the  denial,  any  additional  material or
information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his claim, and the steps which
the Claimant must take to have his claim for benefits reviewed.

     6.2  Appeals.  Each  Claimant  whose claim for benefits has been denied may
file a written request for a review of his claim by the Plan Administrator.  The
request  for  review  must be  filed by the  Claimant  within  60 days  after he
received  the  written  notice  denying  his  claim.  The  decision  of the Plan
Administrator  will be made within 60 days after receipt of a request for review
and will be communicated  in writing to the Claimant.  Such written notice shall
set forth the basis for the Plan Administrator's  decision. If there are special
circumstances  which require an extension of time for completing the review, the
Plan  Administrator's  decision  may be  rendered  not later than 120 days after
receipt of a request for review.



                                   ARTICLE VII

                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     7.1 Amendments. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company has the right in its sole  discretion  to amend this Plan in whole or in
part at any time and in any manner;  provided,  however,  that no such amendment
shall  reduce the amount  credited to the Account of any  Participant  as of the
date such amendment is adopted. Any amendment shall be in writing and adopted by
the  Committee or an officer of the Company who is  authorized  by the Committee
for this purpose. All Participants shall be bound by such amendment.

     7.2  Termination  of Plan.  The Company  expects to continue this Plan, but
does not  obligate  itself to do so.  The  Company,  acting by the  Compensation
Committee  of its Board of  Directors,  reserves  the right to  discontinue  and
terminate the Plan at any time, in whole or in part, for any reason (including a
change,  or an  impending  change,  in the tax laws of the United  States or any
State).  Termination  of the Plan will be  binding  on all  Participants  (and a
partial termination shall be binding upon all affected Participants),  but in no
event may such  termination  reduce  the  amounts  credited  at that time to any
Participant's Account. If this Plan is terminated (in whole or in part), amounts
theretofore credited to affected  Participants' Accounts may either be paid in a
lump sum immediately,  or distributed in some other manner  consistent with this
Plan, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.





                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS


     8.1 Limitation on Participant's Rights. Participation in this Plan does not
give any  Participant  the right to be retained in the  Employer's  or Company's
employ (or any right or  interest  in this Plan or any assets of the  Company or
Employer other than as herein  provided).  The Company and Employer  reserve the
right to terminate the employment of any  Participant  without any liability for
any claim  against the Company or Employer  under this Plan,  except for a claim
for payment of deferrals as provided herein.

     8.2 Unfunded  Obligation of Individual  Employer.  The benefits provided by
this Plan are unfunded.  All amounts payable under this Plan to Participants are
paid from the general assets of the Participant's  individual Employer.  Nothing
contained in this Plan  requires the Company or Employer to set aside or hold in
trust any amounts or assets for the purpose of paying benefits to  Participants.
This Plan creates only a contractual  obligation on the part of a  Participant's
individual  Employer,  and the Participant has the status of a general unsecured
creditor  of this  Employer  with  respect to amounts of  compensation  deferred
hereunder. No other Employer guarantees or shares such obligation,  and no other
Employer shall have any liability to the Participant or his Beneficiary.  In the
event,  a Participant  transfers from the employment of one Employer to another,
the former  Employer  shall  transfer the liability for deferrals made while the
Participant  was employed by that Employer to the new Employer (and the books of
both Employers shall be adjusted appropriately).

     8.3 Other  Plans.  This Plan  shall not  affect  the right of any  eligible
Employee or  Participant  to  participate  in and receive  benefits under and in
accordance with the provisions of any other employee benefit plans which are now
or hereafter maintained by any Employer, unless the terms of such other employee
benefit  plan or plans  specifically  provide  otherwise  or it would cause such
other plan to violate a requirement for tax favored treatment.

     8.4 Receipt or Release. Any payment to a Participant in accordance with the
provisions of this Plan shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of
all claims against the Plan Administrator, the Employer and the Company, and the
Plan  Administrator  may require such Participant,  as a condition  precedent to
such payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.

     8.5 Governing Law. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed
in all respects in accordance with applicable federal law and, to the extent not
preempted  by federal  law,  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of North
Carolina.  If any  provisions  of this  instrument  shall  be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,  the remaining provisions
hereof shall continue to be fully effective.

     8.6  Adoption  of Plan by Related  Employers.  The Plan  Administrator  may
select any corporation  related to the Company by stock ownership as an Employer
and permit or cause such  corporation  to adopt the Plan.  The  selection by the
Plan  Administrator  shall govern the effective date of the adoption of the Plan
by such related Employer.

     8.7 Gender,  Tense,  and  Headings.  In this Plan,  whenever the context so
indicates, the singular or plural number and the masculine,  feminine, or neuter
gender shall be deemed to include the other.  Headings and  subheadings  in this
Plan are inserted for  convenience  of reference  only and are not considered in
the construction of the provisions hereof.

     8.8 Successors and Assigns;  Nonalienation of Benefits. This Plan inures to
the  benefit of and is binding  upon the  parties  hereto and their  successors,
heirs and assigns;  provided,  however, that the amounts credited to the Account
of a  Participant  are not (except as provided  in Section  5.5)  subject in any
manner  to  


anticipation,  alienation,  sale,  transfer,  assignment,  pledge,  encumbrance,
charge,  garnishment,  execution  or  levy  of any  kind,  either  voluntary  or
involuntary,  and any attempt to anticipate,  alienate, sell, transfer,  assign,
pledge,  encumber,  charge or  otherwise  dispose  of any right to any  benefits
payable hereunder,  including,  without limitation, any assignment or alienation
in connection with a separation,  divorce, child support or similar arrangement,
will be null and void and not  binding on the Plan or the  Company or  Employer.
Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  the Company reserves the right to make payments
in accordance with a divorce  decree,  judgment or other court order as and when
cash  payments  are made in  accordance  with the  terms of this Plan due to the
Account of a Participant and credited against such Account.

     8.9 Facility of Payment.  Whenever, in the Plan Administrator's  opinion, a
Participant or Beneficiary  entitled to receive any payment hereunder is under a
legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his
financial  affairs,  the Plan  Administrator  may  direct the  Employer  to make
payments  to such person or to the legal  representative  of such person for his
benefit,  or to apply the  payment for the benefit of such person in such manner
as the Plan Administrator  considers  advisable.  Any payment in accordance with
the  provisions of this section  shall be a complete  discharge of any liability
for the making of such payment to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.

     8.10 Separate Plans.  This Plan document  encompasses two separate plans of
deferred  compensation  for all legal purposes,  including ERISA and federal and
state tax law, as set forth in subsections (a) and (b) below.

     (a)  The  portion  of  the  Plan  that   provides  for  deferrals  of  Base
Compensation,  Bonus  Compensation  and Performance Unit Payouts (which shall be
known as the "Tricon Executive Income Deferral Plan").

     (b) The portion of the Plan that  provides  for  deferrals  of Stock Option
Gains (which shall be known as the "Tricon Option Gains Deferral Plan").

Together,  these two separate plans of deferred  compensation are referred to as
the Tricon Executive Income Deferral Program.




     This 6th day of  October,  1997,  the above restated Plan is
hereby  adopted and  approved by the  Company's  duly  authorized  officer to be
effective as stated herein.


                                   TRICON, INC.



                                   By:  /s/ Michael Theilmann
                                        -----------------------------





                    TRICON EXECUTIVE INCOME DEFERRAL PROGRAM

                                    APPENDIX



     The following  Appendix  articles modify or supplement the general terms of
the Plan as it applies to certain executives.

     Except as specifically  modified in the Appendix,  the foregoing provisions
of the Plan shall fully apply. In the event of a conflict  between this Appendix
and the foregoing provisions of the Plan, the Appendix shall govern with respect
to the conflict.


                                     App-i

                                    ARTICLE A

                              SPINOFF FROM PEPSICO

     This  Article  sets  forth  provisions  that apply in  connection  with the
Company's spinoff from PepsiCo, Inc.

     A.1 Definitions:  When used in this Article, the following underlined terms
shall have the meanings set forth  below.  Except as otherwise  provided in this
Article,  all terms  that are  defined  in Article II of the Plan shall have the
meaning assigned to them by Article II.

     (a) 1997 Agreement:  The 1997 Employee  Programs  Agreement between PepsiCo
and Tricon (dated as of August 26, 1997). 

     (b) Distribution  Date: The "Distribution  Date" as that term is defined in
the 1997 Separation Agreement between PepsiCo and Tricon. 

     (c)  PepsiCo  Account  Holder:  A  Participant  who had an  interest in the
PepsiCo  Capital  Stock Account  under the Prior Plan  immediately  prior to the
Effective Date.

     (d) Transferred  Individual:  A nonterminated  "Transferred  Individual" as
that term is defined in the 1997  Agreement.  For this  purpose,  a  Transferred
Individual shall be considered "nonterminated" if he is actively employed by (or
on a leave of absence from and expected to return to) the Company and any of its
affiliates, as of the end of the day on the Distribution Date.

     (e)  Transition  Individuals:  A  "Transition  Individual"  as that term is
defined in the 1997 Agreement.

     (f) PepsiCo: PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina Corporation.

     A.2 Assumption of Benefits and  Liabilities.  Effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, all interests in the Prior Plan of (and Prior
Plan  liabilities with respect to) Transferred  Individuals  shall be assumed by
this Plan.

     (a) In the case of a Transferred Individual,  effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, his Account shall be credited with the amount
that stood to his credit under the Prior Plan immediately prior to the Effective
Date, and the allocation of this amount to phantom investment options under this
Plan shall mirror the allocation then in effect for the  Transferred  Individual
under the Prior Plan.

     (b) Any  deferral  election  made  under the Prior  Plan for a  Transferred
Individual shall be carried over and continued under this Plan.  Notwithstanding
the prior sentence:

          (1) A  Transferred  Individual  may  revise  his Prior  Plan  deferral
     election  for Bonus  Compensation  payable in 1998 by making a new election
     not later than October 31, 1997, and


                                      A-1

          (2) A  Transferred  Individual's  Prior Plan  election  to defer Stock
     Option Gains on any stock options that,  under the 1997  Agreement,  remain
     options on PepsiCo capital stock shall be void (and no election may be made
     under  this Plan with  respect  to  deferring  Stock  Option  Gains on such
     options).

     (c) A Transferred  Individual who has made a deferral election with respect
to the  performance  unit  award  payable  to him  under the  PepsiCo  Long Term
Incentive  Plan for the 1994 award year  shall,  once the  deferral  occurs,  be
credited with such deferral solely under this Plan. Any designation to have some
or all of this deferral  invested in the PepsiCo capital stock account under the
Prior Plan shall be  converted  to a  designation  for  investment  in a phantom
investment option under this Plan (other than the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account)
which is designated by the Plan Administrator for this purpose.

     A.3 Special PepsiCo Stock Investment  Option. As of the Effective Date, the
Plan  Administrator  shall establish a temporary phantom investment option under
the Plan, the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.  In no event will shares of PepsiCo
capital stock  actually be purchased or held under this Plan, and no Participant
shall have any rights as a shareholder of PepsiCo capital stock on account of an
interest in the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.

     (a)  Valuation  and  Adjustment:  A  Participant's  interest in the PepsiCo
Capital Stock Account is valued as of a Valuation Date by multiplying the number
of phantom shares  credited to his Account on such date by the Fair Market Value
of a share of PepsiCo  capital stock on such date,  and then adding the value of
the Participant's dividend subaccount. If shares of PepsiCo capital stock change
by  reason  of  any  stock  split,  stock  dividend,  recapitalization,  merger,
consolidation,  spin-off, combination or exchange of shares, complete or partial
liquidation or other similar corporate change,  such equitable  adjustment shall
be made in the number of shares credited to an Account or subaccount as the Plan
Administrator may determine to be necessary or appropriate.

     (b) Investment Reallocations.  In accordance with Section 4.1(e), a PepsiCo
Account  Holder may  reallocate  amounts  from his  Subaccounts  in the  PepsiCo
Capital Stock Account to other  phantom  investment  options under the Plan that
are available for this purpose.  No Participant may reallocate  amounts into the
PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.

     (c) Termination of the PepsiCo  Capital Stock Account.  Effective as of the
end  of  the  day on  December  31,  1998  (or  such  later  date  as  the  Plan
Administrator  shall specify),  the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account shall cease to
be available  under the Plan.  Any amount  under the Plan still  standing to the
credit  of a  PepsiCo  Account  Holder  on  such  date  shall  automatically  be
reallocated to the phantom investment option described in Section 4.1(c)(1) (the
Prime Rate  Account)  unless the  Participant  selects a  different  replacement
option in accordance with such requirements as the Plan Administrator may apply.

     A.4  Employment  Transfers by  Transition  Individuals.  This section shall
apply to individuals who transfer between Tricon and PepsiCo under circumstances
that cause them to be Transition Individuals.

     (a) If a  Participant,  who is a Transition  Individual,  is transferred to
PepsiCo,  such  transfer to PepsiCo  shall not be  considered a  Termination  of
Employment or other event that could trigger  distribution of the  Participant's
interest in the Plan. In this case, the Participant's  interest in the Plan (and
all Plan liabilities  with respect to the  Participant)  shall be transferred to
the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program.  This transfer shall constitute a
complete payout of the Participant's  Account for purposes of determining who is
a Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.

                                      A-2

     (b) If a  Transition  Individual,  who  is a  participant  in  the  PepsiCo
Executive Income Deferral Program,  is transferred from PepsiCo to Tricon,  this
Plan shall  accept a transfer of such  Transition  Individual's  interest in the
PepsiCo  Executive Income Deferral  Program,  and the amount  transferred  shall
become the initial balance in the Transition  Individual's Account hereunder. To
the extent  that any  phantom  investment  option  available  under the  PepsiCo
Executive  Income  Deferral  Program is not also available  under this Plan, the
Plan Administrator  shall adopt rules for reallocating the transferred amount to
phantom  investment options under this Plan.  Otherwise,  the allocation of this
amount to phantom investment options under this Plan shall mirror the allocation
then in effect for the Transition  Individual under the PepsiCo Executive Income
Deferral Program.

     A.5 Limit on Stock Distributions.  Notwithstanding that Section 4.4 permits
certain  distributions  to be made in Tricon Common  Stock,  during the two year
period following the Effective Date, the number of shares of Tricon Common Stock
delivered or purchased  under this Plan (when  aggregated  with shares of Tricon
Common  Stock  delivered  or  purchased  under  other  plans or  programs of the
Company)  shall at all times be less than the number of shares that would result
in PepsiCo not having "control" of Tricon  (immediately  before  distribution of
Tricon  Common Stock to PepsiCo's  shareholders)  within the meaning of Sections
355(a)(1)(A) and 368(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.

                                      A-3

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.12

                        TRICON LONG TERM SAVINGS PROGRAM

                          As Effective October 7, 1997,
                            Except as Otherwise Noted

                                Page


ARTICLE I             Foreword...............................................I-1

ARTICLE II            Definitions and Construction
      2.1                   Definitions.....................................II-1
      2.2                   Construction....................................II-7

ARTICLE III           Eligibility and Participation
      3.1                   Eligibility....................................III-1
      3.2                   Participation..................................III-1
      3.3                   Break In Service...............................III-2

ARTICLE IV            Contributions and Deferral Amounts
      4.1                   Elective Deferrals..............................IV-1
      4.2                   Dollar Limits on Elective Deferrals.............IV-2
      4.3                   Limitation on Deferral Percentage...............IV-3
      4.4                   Rollover Contributions..........................IV-5
      4.5                   Maximum Allocations.............................IV-5
      4.6                   Excess Allocations..............................IV-8
      4.7                   Fund for Exclusive Benefit
                              of Participants...............................IV-9

ARTICLE V             Interests of Participants
      5.1                   Accounts of Participants.........................V-1
      5.2                   Investment of Participant Accounts...............V-1
      5.3                   Adjusting Account Balances.......................V-6

ARTICLE VI            Distributions to Participants
      6.1                   Termination of Employment.......................VI-1
      6.2                   Death...........................................VI-1
      6.3                   Withdrawals.....................................VI-1
      6.4                   Form of Distributions...........................VI-3
      6.5                   Errors in Participant's Accounts................VI-3
      6.6                   Commencement of Payments........................VI-3
      6.7                   Payment for Benefit of Disabled
                              or Incapacitated Person.......................VI-5
      6.8                   No Other Benefits or Withdrawals................VI-5
      6.9                   Participants Who Cannot Be Located..............VI-5

ARTICLE VII           Plan Loans
      7.1                   Eligibility for Plan Loans.....................VII-1
      7.2                   Application Procedure..........................VII-1
      7.3                   Loan Amount....................................VII-1
      7.4                   Maximum Number of Outstanding Loans and 
                            Refinancing....................................VII-2
      7.5                   Effect on Participant's Investment.............VII-2
      7.6                   Fees...........................................VII-2
      7.7                   Interest Rate..................................VII-3
      7.8                   Term and Repayment.............................VII-3
      7.9                   Loan Default...................................VII-3
      7.10                  Nondiscrimination..............................VII-4
      7.11                  Collins Food International, Inc................VII-4
      7.12                  Miscellaneous..................................VII-4

ARTICLE VIII          Determination of Beneficiary
      8.1                   Certain Married Participants..................VIII-1
      8.2                   Other Participants............................VIII-2

ARTICLE IX            Administration
      9.1                   Allocation of Responsibility Among
                              Fiduciaries for Plan and Trust
                              Administration................................IX-1
      9.2                   Administration..................................IX-1
      9.3                   Claims Procedure................................IX-1
      9.4                   Records and Reports.............................IX-2
      9.5                   Other Administrative Powers
                              and Duties....................................IX-2
      9.6                   Rules and Decisions.............................IX-3
      9.7                   Procedures......................................IX-3
      9.8                   Authorization of Benefit
                              Distributions.................................IX-3
      9.9                   Application and Forms for
                              Distributions.................................IX-3

ARTICLE X             Trust Fund.............................................X-1

ARTICLE XI            Amendment of the Plan.................................XI-1

ARTICLE XII           Termination of the Plan..............................XII-1

ARTICLE XIIII         Miscellaneous
      13.1                  Participants' Rights; Acquittance.............XIII-1
      13.2                  Nonalienation of Benefits.....................XIII-1
      13.3                  Actions Involving the Trust...................XIII-1
      13.4                  Qualification of Plan as a Condition..........XIII-2
      13.5                  Successor to the Company......................XIII-2
      13.6                  Transfer of Plan Assets.......................XIII-2
      13.7                  Indemnification...............................XIII-2
      13.8                  Action by the Company.........................XIII-2
      13.9                  Application Law...............................XIII-2
      13.10                 Interpreting the Plan.........................XIII-2

ARTICLE XIV           Top-Heavy Plan Provisions
      14.1                  Application....................................XIV-1
      14.2                  Definitions....................................XIV-1
      14.3                  Allocation of Minimum Contribution.............XIV-2

ARTICLE XV            Signature.............................................XV-1

APPENDIX                    ............................................Appendix
  Article A           KFC-Collins............................................A-1
  Article B           KFC Hourly Employees...................................B-1
  Article C           Pizza Hut Employees....................................C-1
  Article D           Prior Definitions of Eligible Pay......................D-1

SCHEDULE 1            Designated Employers for Nonrestaurant Salaried
                      Employees..............................................1-1

SCHEDULE 2            Designated Employers for Nonrestaurant Hourly and
                      Commissioned Employees.................................2-1

SCHEDULE 3            Designated Employers for Restaurant
                      Employees..............................................3-1

SCHEDULE 4            Designated Employers for Transportation
                      Employees..............................................4-1

SCHEDULE 5            Designated Hourly Employees of the
                      Company................................................5-1





                                    ARTICLE I
                                    Foreword

     The Tricon Long Term Savings  Program permits  eligible  employees to defer
receipt of a portion  of their  Eligible  Pay in order to  promote  savings on a
tax-favored  basis.  The  Plan  provides  for  distributions  in  the  event  of
termination of employment,  death, or attainment of age 59-1/2. In addition,  in
certain circumstances, withdrawals are permitted in the event of hardship.

     The Plan has been established by Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc. ("Tricon")
for the benefit of its salaried  Employees  and the salaried and certain  hourly
Employees of each  subsidiary  designated by Tricon which adopts this Plan as an
Employer.

     The Tricon Long Term Savings Program was adopted effective October 7, 1997,
as a successor by spin-off to the PepsiCo Long Term Savings  Program (the "Prior
Plan").  The Prior Plan was amended and restated  effective July 1, 1992. Except
as otherwise provided herein,  this document  generally  reflects  provisions in
effect o nor after that date, and it applies to persons who are  Participants in
the Plan on or after that date.  Except as so provided,  the rights and benefits
with respect to persons who terminated  participation  in the Prior Plan (or its
predecessors)  prior to the date a provision is  effective  shall be governed by
the applicable provisions of the Prior Plan and its predecessors. The provisions
set forth in the  following  Articles  apply to all  Participants  except to the
extent  otherwise  provided.  To provide for the investment of  contributions to
this  Plan  and  other  tax-favored  savings  plans  maintained  by it  and  its
subsidiaries  and  affiliates,  Tricon,  Inc. has  established  the Master Trust
described in Article X.

                                      I-1



                                   ARTICLE II
                          Definitions and Construction

     2.1 Definitions:  This section  provides  definitions for certain words and
phrases listed below. These definitions can be found on the pages indicated.

                                                                       Page
                                                                       ----

     (a)     Account...................................................II-2
     (b)     Authorized Leaves of Absence..............................II-2
     (c)     Annuity Starting Date.....................................II-2
     (d)     Beneficiary...............................................II-2
     (e)     Board.....................................................II-2
     (f)     Code......................................................II-2
     (g)     Company...................................................II-2
     (h)     Company Stock.............................................II-2
     (i)     Effective Date............................................II-3
     (j)     Elective Deferral.........................................II-3
     (k)     Eligible Pay..............................................II-3
     (l)     Employee.................................................II-10
     (m)     Employer ................................................II-11
     (n)     Employment ..............................................II-11
     (o)     Employment Commencement Date.............................II-11
     (p)     ERISA....................................................II-11
     (q)     Excess Contributions.....................................II-11
     (r)     Excess Elective Deferrals................................II-12
     (s)     Fiduciaries..............................................II-12
     (t)     Highly Compensated Employee..............................II-12
     (u)     Hour of Service..........................................II-13
     (v)     Investment Expense.......................................II-14
     (w)     Limitation Year..........................................II-14
     (x)     Merged Plans.............................................II-14
     (y)     Non-Highly Compensated Employee..........................II-14
     (z)     Participant..............................................II-14
             (1)  Active Participant..................................II-14
             (2)  Inactive Participant................................II-14
     (aa)    Tricon Organization......................................II-14
     (bb)    Plan.....................................................II-14
     (cc)    Plan Administrator.......................................II-15
     (dd)    Plan Year................................................II-15
     (ee)    Recordkeeper.............................................II-15
     (ff)    Retired Employee.........................................II-15
     (gg)    Rollover Account.........................................II-15
     (hh)    Rollover Contributions...................................II-15
     (ii)    Salary Deferral Account..................................II-15
     (jj)    Salary Deferral Contributions............................II-15
     (kk)    Severance from Service Date..............................II-16
     (ll)    Termination of Employment................................II-16
     (mm)    Trust (or Trust Fund)....................................II-16
     (nn)    Trustee..................................................II-16
     (oo)    Valuation Date...........................................II-16
     (pp)    Year of Service..........................................II-16

                                      II-1

Where the following words and phrases in bold face and underlined appear in this
Plan with initial capitals they shall have the meaning set forth below, unless a
different meaning is plainly required by context.

     (a) Account:  A Participant's  total interest in the Plan, the aggregate of
the  Participant's  Salary Deferral  Account and Rollover Account (and any other
accounts that may be provided for in the Appendix).

     (b) Authorized Leaves of Absence: Any absence: (i) that is authorized by an
Employer  under its  standard  personnel  practices;  and (ii) during  which the
individual's  base pay is continued  by the  Employer.  It is intended  that all
persons  in the  same  circumstances  shall  be  treated  alike,  to the  extent
practicable, in the granting of such Authorized Leaves of Absence.

     (c) Annuity  Starting Date: The first day on which all events have occurred
that entitle the Participant to payment of a benefit.

     (d) Beneficiary:  Any person or persons  (natural or otherwise)  determined
under Article VIII to be entitled to receive  benefits  hereunder upon the death
of a Participant.

     (e) Board: The Board of Directors of the Company.

     (f) Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.

     (g) Company:  Tricon, Inc., a corporation  organized and existing under the
laws of the State of North Carolina, or its successor or successors. For periods
prior to the Effective Date, the term "Company" shall mean PepsiCo.

     (h) Company Stock: The capital stock issued by the Company.

     (i) Effective Date: The time and date this Plan is effective,  which is the
beginning  of the day on October 7, 1997.  Because  this Plan is a successor  by
spinoff to the Prior Plan, it carries forward provisions from such Prior Plan or
its predecessor that are effective before October 7, 1997.

     (j) Elective  Deferral:  With respect to any taxable year, a  Participant's
Elective  Deferral is the sum of all employer  contributions  made on his behalf
pursuant  to an  election  to defer  under any (i)  qualified  cash or  deferred
arrangement (as defined in Code section 401(k), (ii) simplified employee pension
cash or deferred arrangement (as defined in Code section 408(k)), (iii) eligible
deferred  compensation  plan under Code section 457, (iv) plan described in Code
section  501(c)(18),  and (v) any employer  contribution made on the behalf of a
Participant  for the purchase of an annuity  contract  under Code section 403(b)
pursuant to a salary reduction agreement.

     (k)  Eligible  Pay:  As of the  Effective  Date,  for  each  Plan  Year,  a
Participant's Eligible Pay shall be determined as follows:

     (1) If the  Participant  was an Employee on the Eligible Pay  determination
date (or dates) designated by the Plan Administrator for Employee's  employed by
the Participant's  division,  hereinafter referred to as the determination date,
the  Participant's  annual  base  salary  and  target  bonus  in  effect  on the
determination date, plus annualized  estimates of any overtime,  shift premiums,
commissions  and value pay  (determined in accordance  with rules adopted by the
Plan  Administrator  from  time  to  time).  

                                      II-2

     (2) If the Participant was not an Employee on the  determination  date, the
Participant's  annual  base  salary and target  bonus in effect on his hire date
(determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Plan Administrator from time
to time).

     (3) Special Rules for Determining Eligible Pay:

          (i) For purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2) above and except for salary
     reduction  amounts under an Employer's  Benefits Plus program that are used
     to buy benefits and amounts  contributed under the Plan, base pay shall not
     include  amounts or the value of  benefits  received,  or deemed  received,
     under any  performance  share plan,  stock  option plan or similar  plan or
     under any  pension,  welfare  benefit  or  fringe  plan  maintained  by the
     Employer,  whether such plan is qualified or non-qualified and whether such
     amounts are deferred or not deferred.

          (ii) In the  case of  Employees  who  transfer  from one  Employer  to
     another  during  the  year,   Eligible  Pay  of  such  Employees  shall  be
     redetermined  at the  time  of  transfer  to  the  extent  provided  for in
     procedures of the Plan Administrator in effect at such time.

          (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the
     Eligible Pay of each  Participant  taken into account  under the Plan shall
     not be less than $10,000 and shall not exceed the dollar  limitation  under
     Code section 401(a)(17) as adjusted by the Secretary of the Treasury.

     References  in the Plan to  deferrals of Eligible  Pay, or Salary  Deferral
Contributions  from Eligible  Pay,  shall be read as referring to deferrals of a
Participant's  current  Employee  compensation  not in excess of  Eligible  Pay,
determined as above.

     (l)  Employee:  Any  person who is:  receiving  remuneration  for  personal
services  currently  rendered in the  employment of an Employer (or who would be
receiving such remuneration except for an Authorized Leave of Absence),  and who
is described in one of the following paragraphs:

          (1) A United  States  citizen  whose  primary  place of  employment is
     within the 50 states or the District of Columbia  (collectively referred to
     in this subsection as "the U.S.");

          (2) An alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence in
     the U.S.  (referred to in this subsection as a "resident  alien") and whose
     primary place of  employment  is within the U.S.,  but excluding any person
     working as a designate or in a U.S. assignment that the Employer classifies
     as primarily for training or temporary;

          (3) A United States citizen or resident alien who is classified by the
     Employer a foreign service employee.

     (m)  Employer:  The Company and any  subsidiary  which is authorized by the
Company to participate  herein and which adopts the Plan for its  Employees,  in
accordance with any conditions required by the Company.  Any such subsidiary may
be designated on an attached  Schedules.  However,  no subsidiary acquired after
the  Effective  Date shall be an Employer  with respect to Employees who are not
currently  eligible to enroll in the  subsidiary's  Benefits Plus program unless
the subsidiary is individually designated on the applicable Schedule.

     (n) Employment: Service with an Employer.

     (o)  Employment  Commencement  Date:  The date on which an  Employee  first
performs an Hour of Service for a member of the Tricon Organization.  

                                      II-3

     (p) ERISA:  Public Law 93-406, the Employee  Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended from time to time.

     (q) Excess Contributions: With respect to any Plan Year, the excess of:

          (1) The aggregate amount of Employer contributions paid to the Plan as
     Salary Deferral Contributions on behalf of Highly Compensated Employees for
     such Plan Year, over

          (2)  The  maximum  amount  of  such  contributions  permitted  by  the
     limitations  contained  in Section  4.3(a)  (determined  by  reducing  such
     contributions  made on behalf of such Highly  Compensated  Employees in the
     order contemplated by Code Section 401(k)).

     (r) Excess Elective Deferrals: Those Elective Deferrals that are includable
in an  individual's  gross income under Code section  402(g) because they exceed
the dollar  limitation  in effect for the year under such Code  section.  Excess
Elective  Deferrals  shall be  treated  as annual  additions  under the Plan for
purposes of Section 4.5.

     (s) Fiduciaries: The named fiduciaries, as defined in section 402 of ERISA,
who  shall  be the  Plan  Administrator  and  the  Trustee,  and  other  parties
designated as  fiduciaries,  as defined in section 3(21) of ERISA, by such named
fiduciaries  in  accordance  with the terms of the Plan and the Trust  (but only
with respect to the specific  responsibilities  of each in  connection  with the
Plan and Trust).

     (t) Highly  Compensated  Employee:  

          (i) Was, at any time,  a 5 percent  owner (as defined in Code  section
     416(i)(1));

          (ii) Received  compensation  from an Employer in excess of $75,000 (as
     adjusted pursuant to Code section 415(d));

          (iii) Received  compensation from an Employer in excess of $50,000 (as
     adjusted  pursuant  to Code  section  415(d)) and was a member of the group
     consisting of the top 20 percent of the employees  when ranked on the basis
     of  compensation  paid during the relevant  year (i.e.,  the top-paid  ----
     group), or

          (iv) Was an officer of an Employer and received  compensation  greater
     than 50 percent  of the  dollar  limitation  in effect  under Code  section
     415(b)(1)(A) for such Plan Year.

     (2) Certain Current Year Exclusions: In applying paragraph (1) with respect
to the current Plan Year,  any Employee not described in  subparagraphs  (ii) or
(iv) above for the preceding Plan Year (without  regard to this sentence)  shall
not be treated as described in  subparagraphs  (ii) or (iv) for the current Plan
Year unless such  Employee is among the 100  Employees  receiving  the  greatest
compensation  from  the  Employer  for  the  current  Plan  Year.  In  addition,
subparagraph  (iii) shall not apply in  determining  who are Highly  Compensated
Employees for the current Plan Year.

     (3) Determination of Officers:  For purposes of applying  subparagraph (iv)
of paragraph (1) above, no more than 50 Employees, or, if less, the greater of 3
Employees  or 10 percent of all  Employees,  shall be  treated as  officers.  In
addition,  if,  for any  year,  no  officer  of the  Employer  is  described  in
subparagraph  (a)(iv)  above,  the  officer of the  Employer  with the  greatest
compensation  shall be treated as an officer  described in subparagraph  (a)(iv)
above.

                                      II-4

     (4)  Former  Employees:  A former  Employee  shall be  treated  as a Highly
Compensated Employee if:

          (i) Such Employee was a Highly Compensated Employee when such Employee
     separated from service, or

          (ii) Such Employee was a Highly Compensated Employee at any time after
     attaining age 55.

     (5) Treatment of Certain Family  Members:  Any family member of a 5 percent
owner or one of the 10  Highly  Compensated  Employees  receiving  the  greatest
compensation from the Employer during the relevant year shall be aggregated with
such 5 percent  owner or top-ten  Highly  Compensated  Employee  for purposes of
Section 4.3 of the Plan. In such case,  the family member and 5 percent owner or
top 10 Highly Compensated  Employee shall be treated as a single Employee having
compensation and Plan  contributions  equal to the sum of such  compensation and
contributions  of the  family  member  and 5  percent  owner  or  top 10  Highly
Compensated  Employee.  For purposes of this subsection,  family member includes
the determination of who is a Highly  Compensated  Employee and the compensation
that is considered for this purpose will be made in accordance with Code section
414(q) and the regulations thereunder.

     (u) Hour of Service: Each hour for which an Employee is:

          (1) Paid, or entitled to payment,  by the Employer for the performance
     of duties.

          (2) Directly or indirectly  compensated or entitled to compensation by
     the  Employer  for reasons  other than the  performance  of duties (such as
     vacation, holidays, sickness, jury duty, disability, lay-off, military duty
     or leave of absence)  irrespective  of whether the employment  relationship
     has  terminated  unless  such  compensation  is solely for the  purposes of
     complying with applicable  workers'  compensation  or disability  insurance
     laws; or

          (3) Awarded  back-pay or back-pay is agreed to by the Employer without
     regard to  mitigation  of damages,  except that no Hour of Service shall be
     credited  under this  paragraph  for any period for which the  Employee  is
     credited  with an Hour of Service  under  paragraph  (1) or (2)  above.  In
     addition, each hour for which a leased employee, within the meaning of Code
     section  414(n),  is paid or  entitled to payment by the  Employer  for the
     performance of duties shall be considered an Hour of Service.

     (v)  Investment  Expenses:  All  expenses  related  to the  management  and
maintenance, on a separate basis, of the individual investment options under the
Plan.  The  term  "Investment  Expenses"  shall  not  include  general  fees for
management and maintenance of the Trust as a whole.

     (w) Limitation Year: The 12-month period commencing on January 1 and ending
on December 31.

     (x)  Non-Highly  Compensated  Employee:  Any  Employee  who is not a Highly
Compensated Employee.

     (y) Participant:  Any individual who is either an Active  Participant or an
Inactive Participant.

          (1) Active Participant:  Any eligible Employee,  as defined in Section
     3.1,  who  has a  current  election  in  effect  to  make  Salary  Deferral
     Contributions in accordance with Article IV. 


                                      II-5


          (2)  Inactive  Participant:  Any  individual  (other  than  an  Active
     Participant) who has an Account under the Plan.

     (aa) PepsiCo: PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina Corporation.

     (bb) Plan: The Tricon Long Term Savings Program, the Plan set forth herein,
as it may be  amended  from  time to  time.  The  Plan  Administrator  may  also
designate  certain  informal names for the Plan,  such as "Save-Up",  for use in
communications regarding the Plan.

     (cc) Plan Administrator: The Company, or its successor or successors, which
shall have authority to administer the Plan as provided in Article IX.

     (dd) Plan Year: The 12-month  period  commencing on January 1 and ending on
December 31. From December 1, 1988 to December 31, 1991, the Plan Year commenced
on December 1.

     (ee)  Recordkeeper:  The  party  designated  by the Plan  Administrator  to
maintain  records  of  Participants'  Accounts  in  accordance  with  procedures
established by the Plan Administrator.

     (ff) Retired Employee:  Any person:  (i) who has received a qualifying lump
sum  distribution  from a defined  benefit pension plan sponsored by an Employer
(after such person had  attained at least age 50 or more years of service  under
such  Plan  while in  employ  of the  Employer),  and  (ii) who was an  Employee
eligible to participate in this Plan  immediately  prior to his retirement  from
the  Employer.   For  purposes  of  this  subsection,   a  qualifying  lump  sum
distribution shall refer to lump sums other than single sum distributions with a
value  of  $3,500  or  less  ($5,000  or less  for  distributions  after  1997),
determined in accordance with Code section 417(e).

     (gg)  Rollover  Account:  The  account  maintained  to record any  rollover
contributions  pursuant to Section 4.4, and any adjustments  relating thereto. A
Participant's Rollover Account shall at all times be fully vested.

     (hh)  Rollover  Contributions:  Contributions  to the  Plan  that  are made
pursuant to Section 4.4.

     (ii) Salary Deferral Account:  The account  maintained for a Participant to
record amounts  deferred  pursuant to the election  described in Section 4.1, as
well as any adjustments relating to such amount. A Participant's Salary Deferral
Account shall at all times be fully vested.

     (jj) Salary Deferral Contributions:  Any Employer contributions made to the
Plan at the election of a Participant, in lieu of cash compensation, pursuant to
Section 4.1.

     (kk) Severance from Service Date: An Employee's Severance from Service Date
shall occur on the earlier of:

          (1) The date the Employee quits, retires, is discharged or dies; or

          (2) The first  anniversary  of the date the  Employee  is absent  from
     service with an Employer  (with or without pay) for any reason other than a
     quit, retirement,  discharge or death, such as vacation, holiday, sickness,
     disability, leave of absence or layoff.

                                      II-6

     (ll) Termination of Employment:  The cessation of an Employee's  employment
with an Employer or other  member of the Tricon  Organization,  whether by quit,
resignation,  discharge,  retirement,  disability or indefinite layoff. However,
such term shall not include an Authorized  Leave of Absence or the transfer from
the  Employment  of one  Employer  that  maintains  this  Plan to  another  such
Employer, or to employment with any other member of the Tricon Organization.

     (mm) Tricon Organization: The controlled group of corporations of which the
Company is a member,  as defined in Code Section 414(b) and  regulations  issued
thereunder.

     (nn) Trust (or Trust  Fund):  The fund  established  pursuant  to the Trust
instrument to receive and to invest amounts credited to  Participants'  Accounts
and from which distributions will be made.

     (oo)  Trustee:  The  individual  or  corporation  appointed  by the Company
pursuant to the Trust instrument to hold the Trust Fund.

     (pp)  Valuation  Date:  Each  business  day,  except  that the  Trustee may
temporarily  suspend  valuations  when it deems it to be necessary in accordance
with Section 5.2(b). In all cases,  however,  there shall be a Valuation Date on
the last business day of the Plan Year.

     (qq) Year of  Service:  Each  12-month  period of  service in the period of
service commencing on an Employee's  Employment  Commencement Date and ending on
his Severance from Service Date, subject to the following special rules.

          (1) If an Employee has a Severance  from Service Date as a result of a
     quit,  discharge or  retirement  and then returns to the  employment of the
     Tricon  Organization within 12 months from his Severance from Service Date,
     the Employee's  period of severance  shall be counted as part of his period
     of service.

          (2) If an Employee terminates  employment because of a quit, discharge
     or retirement  (during any other absence from service of 12 months or less)
     and then returns to the  employment  of the Tricon  Organization  within 12
     months from the date on which he was first absent, the Employee's period of
     severance shall be counted as part of his period of service.

          (3) If an  Employee  has a break in service (as  defined  below),  his
     Years of Service  prior to such  break in service  shall only be taken into
     account if he has a Year of Service following his rehire  (determined under
     the preceding  provisions of this  subsection  as if his  employment  first
     commenced on his date of rehire). A "break in service" is a 12-month period
     beginning  on an  Employee's  Severance  from Service Date during which the
     Employee is not credited with an Hour of Service.

     2.2  Construction:  The terms of this Plan shall be construed in accordance
with this section.

     (a) Gender and Number:  The masculine gender,  where appearing in the Plan,
shall be deemed to include the feminine  gender and the singular  shall  include
the plural, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.

     (b)  Headings:  The  headings of sections and  subsections  are for ease of
reference  only and  shall not be  construed  to limit or  modify  the  detailed
provisions thereof.

                                      II-7

                                   ARTICLE III
                          Eligibility and Participation

     3.1. Eligibility:  This section, as modified by the Appendix, specifies who
is eligible to participate in the Plan (the "eligible Employees").

     (a) General Rule: The following  Employees shall be eligible to participate
in the  Plan if they are  currently  eligible  to  enroll  in  their  Employer's
Benefits Plus program:  All  full-time  and part-time  salaried  Employees of an
Employer and all full-time hourly Employees of an Employer.

     (b) Ineligible  Employees:  Notwithstanding  the general rule in (a) above,
the following Employees shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan:

          (1)  Any  Employee  whose  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  are
     determined by collective  bargaining with a union representing such persons
     and with respect to whom  inclusion in this Plan has not been  specifically
     provided for in such collective bargaining agreement;

          (2) Any Employee who is a leased  employee  within the meaning of Code
     section 414(n);

          (3) Effective  December 1, 1989, any Highly  Compensated  Employee who
     has not attained age 21 and completed a Year of Service;

          (4) Any individual who is an independent contractor; and

          (5)  Effective  on and after  January  1,  1996,  any  Employee  of an
     Employer  who is a  Highly  Compensated  Employee  (or  who  is  reasonably
     projected to be a Highly  Compensated  Employee based on the best available
     data).

     An independent  contractor who is  recharacterized  by the Internal Revenue
Service as a common law employee will not be  considered  described in paragraph
(4) for periods on and after the  recharacterization.  Such individual also will
not  be  considered   described  in  paragraph   (4)  for  periods   before  the
recharacterization,  unless the Employer had  classified  the  individual  as an
independent  contractor in good faith, and the individual was part of a group of
independent contractors identified by similar work requirements. An individual's
ineligibility  under the previous  sentence shall have no bearing on whether the
individual is an excludable employee for purposes of the nondiscrimination tests
under Code sections 410(b) and 401(a)(4).

     (c) Certain Part-Time  Employees:  Effective July 1, 1995, any Employee who
would be an eligible Employee if he were classified by his Employer as full-time
(with no other  changes in his status and  circumstances)  shall be  eligible to
participate in the Plan.

For purposes of this section, an Employee who is an associate, casual, part-time
or temporary employee is not considered to be full-time.

     3.2 Participation:

     (a) Commencement of Active Participation: An eligible Employee shall become
an Active  Participant  upon enrolling in the Plan.  

          (1) An  eligible  Employee's  enrollment  in the Plan shall be made by
     electing to defer a portion of his Eligible Pay, in accordance with Section
     4.1(b). An eligible Employee's  qualifying election to participate actively
     in the Plan shall be effective as soon as practicable for his Employer.

                                     III-1


          (2)  Notwithstanding  paragraph (1) above, the election of an Employee
     eligible  under  Section  3.1(c)  shall not be  effective  before the first
     January 1 or July 1 following his  attainment of age 21 and his  completion
     of a 12-month period of employment  (measured as described  below) in which
     he is credited with at least 1,000 Hours of Service (referred to as a "year
     of eligibility service"). The 12-month period between the date the Employee
     first completes one Hour of Service and the first anniversary thereof shall
     be used initially to determine his  eligibility to participate in the Plan;
     thereafter,  his eligibility to participate in the Plan shall be determined
     by reference to whether he completes  1,000 or more Hours of Service in any
     Plan Year,  beginning  with the first Plan Year  commencing  after he first
     completes  one Hour of Service.  An employee  who  completes  1,000 or more
     Hours of  Service  in both the  initial  12-month  eligibility  computation
     period and the first Plan Year commencing after he first completes one Hour
     of Service  shall be  credited  with two years of  eligibility  service for
     purposes of this section.

     (b) Termination of Participation:  An Active  Participant shall continue to
participate  actively  in the  Plan  until  he  revokes  his  enrollment  or his
enrollment  ends as a result of his  Termination  of Employment or transfer to a
position that is ineligible for participation. When active participation ceases,
an individual  with a balance in his Plan Account shall  continue as an Inactive
Participant until his Account has been distributed.

     (c)  Recommencement  of Active  Participation:  Subject to Section 3.3, any
individual whose active  participation has terminated pursuant to subsection (b)
may return to active participation by reinstating his enrollment  (following his
return to service as an eligible Employee, if applicable).

     3.3 Break in Service:  This section  shall apply in the case of an Employee
described in Section  3.1(c) who has a break in service,  as defined  below.  In
determining such Employee's post-break participation in the Plan, the Employee's
pre-break  years of  eligibility  service  shall be restored only after he has a
year of eligibility  service following his rehire  (determined under Section 3.2
as if his  employment  first  commenced  on his date of  rehire).  For  purposes
hereof,  a "break in  service"  shall  mean a  12-consecutive-month  computation
period  during which an Employee is credited  with 500 or less Hours of Service.
The applicable computation period for determining breaks in service shall be the
12-month  period  beginning on the Employee's  date of employment and Plan Years
commencing after such date of employment.

                                     III-2

                                   ARTICLE IV
                       Contributions and Deferral Amounts


     4.1 Elective  Deferrals:  An Employee who is eligible under Section 3.1 and
who  has  Eligible  Pay may  elect  to  defer  a  portion  of his  Eligible  Pay
in accordance with the following subsections.

     (a)  Deferral  Amount:  Subject  to the  limitations  established  by  this
Article, each Active Participant may defer in any Plan Year up to 10 percent (15
percent,  effective January 1, 1996) of his Eligible Pay in accordance with this
section.  In the event a  Participant  elects to defer a portion of his Eligible
Pay under the Plan, it will be designated  for  contribution  by the Employer to
the Trust on behalf of the  Participant,  and for deposit in his Salary Deferral
Account.  All amounts deposited to a Participant's Salary Deferral Account shall
at all times be fully vested.

     (b) Election to Defer:  Each Employee who qualifies as an eligible Employee
under Section 3.1 may elect to defer a portion of his Eligible Pay in accordance
with subsection (d). An eligible Employee shall make this election by:

          (1)  Completing  and returning the  enrollment  form, or utilizing the
     telephone enrollment system, as is applicable for the Participant under the
     current procedures of the Plan Administrator.

          (2) Designating a portion of his Eligible Pay to be contributed by his
     Employer to the Plan, and

          (3)  Indicating how such amounts are to be invested under Section 5.2.
     An eligible Employee's election under this subsection shall be effective as
     soon as practicable for his Employer and shall remain in effect until it is
     modified or  terminated  under  subsection  (c) below,  or until his active
     participation terminates in accordance with Section 3.2(b).

     (c)  Changes in Deferral  Election:  Subject to  subsection  (d), an Active
Participant  may elect to  increase,  decrease  or  terminate  the amount of his
deferral at any time by completing  and returning a change of election  form, or
using  the  telephone   enrollment  system  (whichever  is  applicable  for  the
Participant under the current procedures of the Plan Administrator) to designate
the  revised  deferral  rate to be  contributed  to the  Plan.  A  Participant's
election under this subsection shall be effective as soon as practicable for his
Employer.

     (d) Election  Procedures:  To be  effective,  an election  made pursuant to
subsection  (b) or (c) above  must be made in the manner  specified  by the Plan
Administrator.  In  addition,  the  election  shall  specify  the  amount of the
deferral  desired  for each Plan Year in the form of a whole  dollar  amount,  a
percentage of Eligible Pay, or a combination of the two as specified by the Plan
Administrator  from time to time,  subject to the  limitation in subsection  (a)
above.  Any election  purporting  to defer more than the maximum  percentage  of
Eligible Pay permitted  under  subsection (a) shall be treated as an election to
defer such maximum  percentage  of Eligible Pay.  Notwithstanding  the preceding
sentence,  the Plan Administrator shall not give effect to elections that do not
meet the minimum standards for completeness and accuracy the Plan  Administrator
establishes from time to time.

                                      IV-1

     (e) Payroll Deductions: A Participant's Salary Deferral Contributions shall
be withheld  from his Eligible Pay through  automatic  payroll  deductions.  The
amount  to be  withheld  in any pay  period  shall  be a  ratable  share  of the
Participant's  currently  effective salary deferral election for the entire Plan
Year.  Salary  Deferral  Contributions  may not be withheld after they have been
actually or constructively received by the Participant.

     4.2 Dollar  Limits on Elective  Deferrals:  Notwithstanding  Section 4.1, a
Participant's Elective Deferrals shall be limited as provided in this section.

     (a) Initial  Limit:  Effective  for calendar  years  beginning on and after
January 1, 1987,  a  Participant's  Elective  Deferrals  under the Plan shall be
limited to $7,000  or, if  greater,  the  adjusted  amount in effect  under Code
section  402(g) for the  preceding  calendar  year (or for the current  calendar
year, if authorized by the Plan Administrator for such year).

     (b)  Additional  Limit:  Effective for Plan Years  beginning  after 1987, a
Participant's  Elective  Deferrals,  which are made in any calendar  year to the
Plan or any other  arrangement  maintained by the Employer,  shall be limited to
the amount  permissible under Code section 402(g) for taxable years beginning in
such calendar year.

     (c) Distribution of Excess Elective Deferral:

          (1)  Assignment:  If  the  Elective  Deferral  made  on  behalf  of  a
     Participant  under all plans in which  such  individual  is a  participant,
     whether or not  maintained by the Employer,  exceeds the dollar  limitation
     contained in Code section 402(g),  such Participant may assign to this Plan
     any Excess Elective  Deferral made during a taxable year of the Participant
     no later than March 1  following  the close of,  and with  respect  to, the
     taxable year in which such Excess Elective Deferral was made by:

               (i) Notifying the Plan  Administrator  in writing of the Elective
          Deferral made under any plan other than this Plan,

               (ii) Allocating in writing such Excess Elective  Deferral between
          or among such other plans and this Plan, and

               (iii)  Stating in writing that if such Excess  Elective  Deferral
          allocable to the Plan is not distributed,  the deferral limitations of
          Code  section  402(g) will be exceeded for the  Participant's  taxable
          year with respect to which such Elective Deferral occurred.

          (2) Distribution:  Upon notification in accordance with paragraph (1),
     the Plan  Administrator  shall  distribute  any  Excess  Elective  Deferral
     allocated  to the Plan  (plus  any  income  and  minus  any loss  allocable
     thereto) to the relevant Participant no later than April 15 of the calendar
     year  following  the  close of the  taxable  year of the  Participant  with
     respect to which such Excess Elective Deferral was made.

          (3) Determination of Income or Loss:  Excess Elective  Deferrals shall
     be adjusted  for any income or loss  through the end of the taxable year of
     the  Participant  with respect to which such Excess  Elective  Deferral was
     made.  The income or loss  allocable  to a  Participant's  Excess  Elective
     Deferral  is the  income  or loss  allocable  to the  Participant's  Salary
     Deferral  Account for such  taxable  year,  multiplied  by a fraction,  the
     numerator of which is the Participant's  Excess Elective Deferrals for such
     taxable  year and the  denominator  of which is the  Participant's  account
     balance attributable to Salary Deferral  Contributions as of the end of the
     taxable year  without  regard to any income or loss  occurring  during such
     taxable year.

                                      IV-2

     To the extent necessary to ensure compliance with subsection (b) above, the
Plan Administrator  shall distribute Excess Elective Deferrals to a Participant,
notwithstanding  the fact that the  Participant  has not  assigned  such  Excess
Elective  Deferrals to this Plan by the deadline specified in subsection (c)(1).
Such  distribution  shall be accomplished  as contemplated in subsection  (c)(2)
above.

     4.3 Limitation on Deferral Percentage:

     (a)  Limitation:  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to the  contrary,  the
Average Deferral Percentage of the eligible Employees who are Highly Compensated
Employees for a Plan Year shall not exceed the greater of (1) or (2) below:

          (1) The Average Deferral  Percentage of the eligible Employees who are
     Non-Highly Compensated Employees for such Plan Year multiplied by 1.25, or

          (2) The Average Deferral  Percentage of the eligible Employees who are
     Non-Highly  Compensated  Employees  for such Plan Year  multiplied  by 2.0,
     provided, however, that in this case the Average Deferral Percentage of the
     eligible  Employees who are Highly  Compensated  Employees shall not exceed
     the  Average  Deferral   Percentage  of  the  eligible  Employees  who  are
     Non-Highly Compensated Employees by more than 2 percentage points.

     (b) Average Deferral Percentage:  For purposes of subsection (a) above, the
Average  Deferral  Percentage for a specified group of Employees for a Plan Year
shall mean the average of the ratios (calculated separately for each Participant
in such group) of:

          (1) The amount of the Salary  Deferrals made on behalf of the Employee
     for  the  Plan  Year  (including   Excess  Elective   Deferrals  of  Highly
     Compensated Employees), to

          (2) The Employee's  compensation for the Plan Year (whether or not the
     Employee was a Participant for the entire Plan Year).

          For Plan Years  beginning  on or after  January 1, 1989,  the  Average
     Deferral  Percentage  shall be computed to the nearest one hundredth of one
     percent.

     (c) Special  Rules:  In  applying  the limits set forth in  subsection  (a)
above, the following rules shall apply:

          (1) For purposes of this subsection,  compensation  means compensation
     as  defined  in Code  section  414(s).  For  Plan  Years  in  which  Excess
     Contributions  and Income  are  distributed  pursuant  to  subsection  (e),
     compensation    means    compensation    as   defined   in   Treas.    Reg.
     1.415-2(d)(11)(ii).  For any Plan Year, begin compensation shall be limited
     to the dollar  limit on  compensation  under Code  section  401(n)(17),  as
     adjusted for the Plan Year.

          (2) If a Highly Compensated  Employee is eligible to participate under
     more than one cash or deferred arrangement described in Code section 401(k)
     maintained by the Employer, all such cash or deferred arrangements shall be
     treated as one for purposes of calculating such Employee's Average Deferral
     Percentage.

                                      IV-3

     (d)  Adjustment  of  Salary  Deferrals:  If  during  a Plan  Year  the Plan
Administrator  determines that there is a likelihood  that the Average  Deferral
Percentage  of the Highly  Compensated  Employees  will  exceed  the  limitation
specified in  subsection  (a),  then the Plan  Administrator  may  prospectively
reduce or limit the deferrals of the Highly Compensated Employees to such amount
and beginning as of such pay period during the Plan Year as is deemed  necessary
by the Plan  Administrator  in its sole  discretion to prevent the limitation in
subsection (a) from being exceeded for the Plan Year. The Plan Administrator may
terminate (in whole or in part) any  reduction or limitation on deferrals  under
this subsection which is no longer necessary to prevent the limitation specified
in  subsection  (a) from being  exceeded for the Plan Year.  Whenever  necessary
during the Plan Year, the Plan Administrator may institute further reductions or
limitations on deferrals,  or reinstate  reductions or limitations on deferrals,
to the extent  required to prevent the  limitation in subsection  (a) from being
exceeded.

     (e)  Distribution  of  Excess  Contributions  and  Income:  If the  Average
Deferral  Percentage  of the  eligible  Employees  who  are  Highly  Compensated
Employees  exceeds the  limitations  of subsection  (a) for any Plan Year,  then
notwithstanding  any other provision of the Plan, any Excess  Contributions  for
such Plan Year (plus any income and minus any loss  allocable  thereto) shall be
distributed to the appropriate Highly  Compensated  Employees not later than two
and one-half  months  following  the Plan Year with respect to which such Excess
Contributions were made.

          (1)  Determination of Income or Loss:  Excess  Contributions  shall be
     adjusted  for any income or loss through the end of the Plan Year for which
     the  Excess  Contributions  occurred.  The  income or loss  allocable  to a
     Participant's Excess Elective Deferral shall be as follows:

               (i) For the Plan Year beginning in 1987, the Employer may use any
          reasonable  and  consistently  applied method for computing the income
          allocable to any Excess Contributions for such Plan Year.

               (ii) For Plan Years  beginning on or after  January 1, 1988,  the
          income or loss allocable to Excess Contributions is the income or loss
          allocable to the  Participant's  Salary Deferral  Account for the Plan
          Year for which  the  Excess  Contributions  occurred  multiplied  by a
          fraction,   the  numerator  of  which  is  the  Participant's   Excess
          Contributions  for such Plan Year and the  denominator of which is the
          Participant's   account   balance   attributable  to  Salary  Deferral
          Contributions  as of the end of the Plan  Year  without  regard to any
          income or loss occurring during such Plan Year.

          (2) Special Rules:

               (i) Any distribution of Excess  Contributions  and income thereon
          shall be made to  Highly  Compensated  Employees  on the  basis of the
          respective portions of the total Excess Contributions  attributable to
          each such Employee.

               (ii) Any distribution of Excess  Contributions and income thereon
          may and shall be made  without  regard to any other  provision of this
          Plan restricting distributions.

     (f)  Determination  By Plan  Administrator:  Notwithstanding  the foregoing
provisions of this section, any determination  required by this section shall be
made by the Plan Administrator, and the determination by such Plan Administrator
of the method of compliance  with  subsection  (a) and reduction of deferrals in
excess of that permitted by subsection  (a), in accordance  with subsection (d),
and the determination of any Excess  Contribution to be distributed  pursuant to
subsection (e), shall be final,  binding, and conclusive as to all Participants,
former  Participants,  Beneficiaries,  and any other person or entity associated
with or benefiting from this Plan.

                                      IV-4

     (g)  Priority  of  Application  of  Sections:  Section 4.2 shall be applied
before this section.

     4.4  Rollover  Contributions:  At the request of a  Participant,  a Retired
Employee or an Employee who is eligible  under Section 3.1 (or could be upon the
completion  of any  requirements  with respect to age or service),  the Plan may
accept a rollover of cash  amounts  from  another  qualified  plan  described in
section  401(a) of the Code,  including  an  individual  retirement  account  or
annuity whose assets came solely from a qualified plan. Any such rollover amount
will be held for the Participant, Employee, or Retired Employee, as the case may
be, in a Rollover Account established for his benefit. A person who makes such a
rollover contribution to the Plan, but who is not otherwise eligible to make (or
who chooses not to make) a deferral  election  under  Section  4.1(b),  shall be
considered an Inactive  Participant.  The Plan Administrator and the Trustee may
request such information from the Participant, Employee, or Retired Employee, as
the  case  may be,  any  documents  or  opinion  of  counsel  which  it,  in its
discretion,  deems  necessary to determine that a proper  rollover  contribution
will be made.  Amounts in a Rollover  Account shall be invested as designated by
the Participant  pursuant to Section 5.2(c). The amounts in the Rollover Account
shall be  distributed  at the same time and in the same manner as amounts in the
Salary Deferral Account.

     4.5 Maximum Allocations:

     (a) The amount of Annual  Additions  (as defined in  subsection  (d) below)
which may be credited to the  Participant  under this Plan during any Limitation
Year shall not exceed the lesser of $30,000 (or, if greater,  one-fourth  of the
defined  benefits  dollar  limitation set forth in Code section  415(b)(1) as in
effect for the Limitation Year) or 25% of the Participant's  Annual Compensation
(as defined in subsection (e) below) for the applicable Limitation Year.

     (b) For any  Participant  in the Plan who is also a  participant  in one or
more defined benefit plans (as defined in section 414(j) of the Code) maintained
by the  Company  or by the  Employer,  the sum of the  fractions  in (1) and (2)
below,  computed  as of the close of the  Limitation  Year,  may not exceed 1.0,
where the fractions are determined as follows:

          (1) The Projected  Annual Benefit (as defined in subsection (d) below)
     of the Participant under such defined benefit plans,  divided by the lesser
     of:

               (i) the  product  of the  dollar  limitation  determined  for the
          Limitation  Year under Code sections 415(b) and (d) multiplied by 1.25
          (or 1.0,  if the Plan is a  Top-Heavy  Plan,  as  defined  by  Section
          14.2(c)), or

               (ii) 140 percent of the  Participant's  Average  Compensation (as
          defined in subsection (d) below), including any adjustments under Code
          section 415(b) plus

          (2) The sum of the  Annual  Addition  to such  Participant's  accounts
     under this Plan and all other defined  contribution plans maintained by the
     Employer  for such  Limitation  Year and for all Prior Years (as defined in
     subsection  (d) below)  divided  by the sum of the lesser of the  following
     amounts determined for such Plan Year and all Prior Years:

               (i)  the  product  of  the  Dollar   Limitation  (as  defined  in
          subsection  (d) below) in effect for the year  multiplied  by 1.25 (or
          1.0, if the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, as defined by Section  14.2(c)),
          or

               (ii) 35 percent of the Participant's  Annual Compensation for the
          year.

                                      IV-5

     (c) In the event that a Participant's Annual Addition under this Plan, when
added to the  Annual  Addition  under any other  defined  contribution  plan (as
defined in section 414(i) of the Code) or the Projected Annual Benefit under any
defined  benefit  plan  maintained  by the  Employer,  exceeds  the  limitations
specified  in  Section  4.5(a) or (b),  appropriate  reductions  in such  Annual
Addition or Projected Annual Benefit shall be made in the following order:

          (1)  First,  under  any  defined  benefit  plan(s)  maintained  by the
     Employer,

          (2) To the extent  that  additional  reductions  are still  necessary,
     under this Plan, and

          (3) To the extent that any additional  reductions are still necessary,
     under a Tricon employee stock ownership plan.

     (d) For purposes of this Section 4.5, the following  definitions  and rules
of interpretation shall apply:

          (1) Effective for years beginning after December 31, 1986, the "Annual
     Addition"  of a  Participant  means  the sum  credited  to a  Participant's
     account  for  any  year  of  (i)  employer  contributions;   (ii)  employee
     contributions;  (iii)  forfeitures  and  (iv)  amounts  described  in  Code
     sections 415(l)(2) and 419A(d)(2). Notwithstanding the foregoing, for years
     beginning  prior to January 1, 1987,  only that  portion of the  employee's
     contributions  equal to the  lesser of:  (A) the  portion  of his  employee
     contributions  (if any)  during  such year in  excess  of 6 percent  of his
     annual compensation,  or (B) one-half of his employee  contributions during
     such plan  year  shall be  considered  an  "Annual  Addition."  The  Annual
     Addition  for any year  beginning  prior to January  1, 1987,  shall not be
     recomputed to treat all employee contributions as an Annual Addition.

          (2) "Projected Annual Benefit" means the Annual Benefit (as defined in
     paragraph  (3)  below) to which a  Participant  would be  entitled  under a
     defined benefit plan (after giving effect to any limitation on such benefit
     contained in such plan that may be  applicable to the  Participant)  on the
     assumptions that he continues  employment until his Normal  Retirement Date
     thereunder,  that his compensation  continues at the same rate as in effect
     for the Limitation Year under  consideration  until such Normal  Retirement
     Date, and that all other relevant factors used to determine  benefits under
     such plan remain constant for all future Limitation Years.

          (3) The "Annual  Benefit"  of a  Participant  means the annual  amount
     payable  under a defined  benefit  plan  computed  in  accordance  with the
     following rules:

               (i) Where the Annual Benefit payable under a defined benefit plan
          is  other  than in the  form of  either a  single  life  annuity  or a
          qualified  joint and  survivor  annuity  within  the  meaning  of Code
          section 417(b) it shall be adjusted to an actuarial equivalent benefit
          in the form of a single life annuity.

               (ii) In the case of a benefit under a defined  benefit plan which
          begins prior to the Participant's  Social Security  Retirement Age (as
          defined  below),  such  benefit  shall be  adjusted  so that it is the
          actuarial  equivalent  of a benefit  commencing  at the  Participant's
          Social  Security  Retirement  Age for  purposes of  applying  the Code
          section 415(b) dollar maximum.

               (iii) In the case of a benefit under a defined benefit plan which
          begins after the  Participant's  Social Security  Retirement Age, such
          benefit  shall be adjusted to the  actuarial  equivalent  of a benefit
          commencing at the  Participant's  Social  Security  Retirement Age for
          purposes of applying the Code section 415(b) dollar maximum.  

                                      IV-6

               (iv) For years beginning  prior to January 1, 1987,  subparagraph
          (B) shall be applied by substituting  "age 62" for "the  Participant's
          Social Security Retirement Age," and subparagraph (C) shall be applied
          by substituting "age 65" for "the Participant's Social Security Age."

          (4) "Average  Compensation" means a Participant's average compensation
     for the  period  of 3  consecutive  Plan  Years  (or the  actual  number of
     consecutive  years of employment for  Participants  employed by an Employer
     less  than 3  consecutive  years)  during  which  the  Participant  had the
     greatest aggregate Annual Compensation.

          (5) "Prior Year" means a year,  preceding the current Limitation Year,
     in which the Participant  was in the service of the Employer.  For purposes
     of the preceding sentence,  "year" shall mean (in the event the Plan was in
     existence  during such year) a Limitation  Year,  or (in the event the Plan
     was not in existence  during such year) a 12- month period which begins and
     ends on the same dates as the Limitation Year.

          (6) "Dollar  Limitation" means the limitation provided in Code section
     415(c)(1)(A)   (adjusted  in  accordance  with  Internal   Revenue  Service
     Regulations) as in effect for the particular Plan Year.

          (7)  "Social  Security  Retirement  Age" means age 65 in the case of a
     Participant  who attains age 62 before  January 1, 2000; age 66 in the case
     of a  Participant  who  attains age 62 after  December  31, 1999 but before
     January 1, 2017; and age 67 in the case of a Participant who attains age 62
     after December 31, 2016.

          (8) For purposes of Section 4.5(b)(1)(i) above, if as of the last Plan
     Year ending before January 1, 1983, a Participant's accrued benefit (within
     the   meaning   of  Section   235(g)(4)   of  the  Tax  Equity  and  Fiscal
     Responsibility  Act of 1982) under the Employer's  defined benefit plans is
     greater than  $90,000 (and also such other amount as may apply  pursuant to
     automatic  adjustments of the $90,000  figure),  then Section  4.5(b)(1)(i)
     shall be applied by substituting  such accrued benefit for $90,000 where it
     appears therein.

          (9) For  purposes of  computing  the maximum  allocation  under either
     subsection  (a)  or  (b),  all  defined   benefit  plans  (whether  or  not
     terminated) of the Employer  shall be treated as one defined  benefit plan,
     and all  defined  contribution  plans  (whether or not  terminated)  of the
     Employer shall be treated as one defined contribution plan.

          (10) When the term  "Employer" is used in this section,  it shall mean
     the Employer and any other  corporation  or division which is a member of a
     controlled  group of  corporations  (within  the  meaning  of Code  Section
     414(b), as modified by Code section 415(h)) of which the Employer is also a
     member.

     (e) Annual Compensation:  A Participant's annual compensation as determined
solely for purposes of this section and Article XIV of the Plan.

          (1) A Participant's Annual Compensation shall include:


                                      IV-7


               (i) The Participant's earned income,  wages,  salaries,  and fees
          for  professional  services,  and other amounts  received for personal
          services  actually  rendered  in the  course  of  employment  with the
          Employer  maintaining  the plan to the  extent  that the  amounts  are
          includable in gross income (including, but not limited to, commissions
          paid salesmen,  compensation for services on the basis of a percentage
          of profits,  commissions  on  insurance  premiums,  tips and  bonuses,
          fringe benefits, reimbursements, and expense allowances);

               (ii) Amounts  described in Code  sections  104(a)(3),  105(a) and
          105(h), but only to the extent that such amounts are includable in the
          gross income of the Participant;

               (iii)  Amounts  paid or  reimbursed  by the  Employer  for moving
          expenses  incurred by a Participant,  but only to the extent that such
          amounts are not deductible by the Participant under Code section 217;

               (iv) The  value of a  non-qualified  stock  option  granted  to a
          Participant,  but only to the  extent  that the value of the option is
          includable in the gross income of the Participant for the taxable year
          in which granted; and

               (v) The amount  includable  in the gross income of a  Participant
          upon making the election described in Code section 83(b).

          (2) A Participant's Annual Compensation shall not include:

               (i)  Employer  contributions  to a plan of deferred  compensation
          which are not  included  in the  Participant's  gross  income  for the
          taxable year in which  contributed or Employer  contributions  under a
          simplified  employee pension plan to the extent such contributions are
          deductible by the  Participant,  or any  distributions  from a plan of
          deferred compensation;

               (ii) Amounts realized from the exercise of a non-qualified  stock
          option, or when restricted stock (or property) held by the Participant
          either  becomes  freely  transferable  or is no  longer  subject  to a
          substantial risk of forfeiture;

               (iii)  Amounts   realized  from  the  sale,   exchange  or  other
          disposition of stock acquired under a qualified stock option; and

               (iv) Other  amounts  which  received  special  tax  benefits,  or
          contributions  made by the  Employer  (whether  or not  under a salary
          reduction  agreement)  towards the purchase of an annuity described in
          section  403(b) of the Code  (whether or not the amounts are  actually
          excludable from the gross income of the Participant).

               Compensation for any limitation year is the compensation actually
          paid or includable in gross income during such year.

     4.6 Excess  Allocations:  If  pursuant  to  Section  4.5 there is an excess
Annual  Addition under this Plan with respect to a Participant  for a Limitation
Year,  such excess Annual  Addition shall be disposed of by  distributing to the
Participant such  Participant's  Elective Deferrals for the Limitation Year (and
related earnings thereon) to the extent necessary to eliminate such excess.

                                      IV-8


     4.7 Fund  for  Exclusive  Benefit  of  Participants:  Except  as  otherwise
provided  hereinafter  (i) all assets of the Trust  Fund,  including  investment
income,  shall  be  retained  for the  exclusive  benefit  of  Participants  and
Beneficiaries,  and  shall be used to pay  benefits  to such  persons  or to pay
administrative  expenses  of the Plan and  Trust to the  extent  not paid by the
Employer,  and  (ii)  contributions  made  by the  Employer  may not  under  any
circumstances  revert to or inure to the benefit of the  Employer;  except that,
and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, contributions (a)
made  by  the  Employer  by  mistake  of  fact,  or  (b)  conditioned  upon  the
deductibility of the  contribution  under Code section 404, shall be returned to
the Employer  within 1 year of the mistaken  payment or the  disallowance of the
deduction (to the extent disallowed), whichever is applicable. Each contribution
by the  Employer is  expressly  made  contingent  on the  deductibility  of such
contribution for the year with respect to which the contribution is made.

                                      IV-9

                                    ARTICLE V
                            Interests of Participants

     5.1 Accounts of Participants:  The Plan Administrator,  or its agent, shall
maintain separate  accounts on its books, for  recordkeeping  purposes only, for
each  Participant.  A given  Participant  may have two  accounts if he has:  (i)
deferred a percentage of his Eligible Pay pursuant to Section 4.1, and (ii) made
a  rollover  contribution  pursuant  to Section  4.4,  i.e.,  a Salary  Deferral
Account,  and a Rollover Account. The maintenance of individual accounts is only
for  accounting  purposes,  and a segregation of the assets of the Trust Fund to
each account shall not be required  (except as the Trustee deems necessary under
the  Brokerage  Option).  Distributions  and  withdrawals  from a  Participant's
Account shall be charged to the appropriate  account at the time the transaction
is processed.

     5.2 Investment of Participant  Accounts:  The investment  options under the
Plan are described in subsection  (a),  subject to the  limitations set forth in
subsection  (b) and other  provisions of the Plan. (a)  Investment  Options:  In
accordance with the rules provided in subsection (c) below, a Participant  shall
direct the  investment  of the  amounts  credited  to his  Account to any of the
following  separate  investment  options  within  the Trust Fund for which he is
eligible at the time:

          (1)  The  Security  Plus  Fund:  This  investment  option,   available
     effective  January  1,  1992,  is  an  investment  portfolio  comprised  of
     investment  funds and contracts  issued by highly rated banks and insurance
     companies  and  short-term  securities.  The  objective  of the  Fund is to
     provide,  over a period of time, a higher rate of return than average money
     market funds,  while  preserving  principal and  providing  liquidity.  The
     Fund's  rate of return  will  fluctuate  and is not  intended  to provide a
     guaranteed rate of return.  The Participant's  interest in the fund will be
     denominated as "units". The value of a unit in this Fund will be $1.00. The
     number of units  credited to a Participant  will  fluctuate  based upon the
     performance of the Fund. As of January 1, 1992, two 1991 Guaranteed  Income
     Fund contracts,  both issued by Metropolitan  Life, were transferred to the
     Security Plus Fund. In addition to the  transferred  investment  contracts,
     the Fund is  expected to invest  primarily  in: (A)  short-term  investment
     funds (including  government  short-term  investment  funds) that invest in
     certificates of deposit, time deposits,  bankers'  acceptances,  commercial
     paper, U.S. Treasury and agency  securities,  and mortgage and asset-backed
     securities;  and  (B)  new  investment  contracts  issued  by  highly-rated
     insurance companies, banks, and other financial institutions.  The transfer
     of funds  invested in the Security Plus Fund to other  separate  investment
     options   within  the  Trust  Fund  shall  be  subject  to  the   following
     restrictions:

               (i)  No  amounts  invested  in  the  Security  Plus  Fund  may be
          transferred  by a  Participant  directly to the Brokerage  Option.  No
          amounts  invested in the Security  Plus Fund may be  transferred  by a
          Participant  indirectly  to  the  Brokerage  Option,  i.e.,  by  first
          transferring the amounts to some other investment  option (or options)
          under the Plan, unless such amounts remain invested in the intervening
          investment option (or options) for at least 3 months;

               (ii) A  Participant  can transfer  amounts from the Security Plus
          Fund into some other investment  option (or options) under the Plan no
          more than 12 times during the Plan Year; and

               (iii)  Withdrawals of amounts  invested in the Security Plus Fund
          are subject to the limitations specified in Section 6.3(c).


                                      V-1

          (2) The Equity Index Fund:  This  investment  option is a  diversified
     stock fund, invested primarily in the Vanguard Institutional Index Fund. It
     is a passively  managed fund designed to mirror the performance of Standard
     and Poor's 500 Index, a broadly-based  average of stock market performance.
     Investments  in this  investment  option are subject to  fluctuations,  and
     there is no guarantee of future performance.  The Participant's interest in
     the Fund will be denominated  as "units".  The value of a unit in this Fund
     will  fluctuate  based on the  performance of the Fund. The number of units
     credited to a Participant  will not fluctuate based upon the performance of
     the Fund.

          (3) The  Equity-Income  Fund:  This Fund is primarily  invested in the
     Fidelity  Equity-Income  Fund, which invests primarily in  income-producing
     stocks.  The  Fund's  chief  objective  is to  provide  reasonable  income,
     although  some  consideration  is given to  capital  appreciation.  Amounts
     invested in this investment  option are subject to fluctuations,  and there
     is no guarantee of future  performance.  The Participant's  interest in the
     Fund will be denominated as "units".  The value of a unit in this Fund will
     fluctuate  based  on the  performance  of the  Fund.  The  number  of units
     credited to a Participant  will not fluctuate based upon the performance of
     the Fund.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if with respect
     to any  calendar  quarter  ("quarter")  Fidelity  Institutional  Retirement
     Services Company makes a payment pursuant to its Plan Expense Reimbursement
     Agreement  with the  Company,  such  payment  shall be allocated to certain
     Participants  who have an interest in the Equity Income Fund as provided in
     (i) or (ii) below, as applicable.

               (i) Effective for any such payment made with respect to a quarter
          beginning  after June 30,  1996,  the  projected  amount  payable with
          respect to each  business  day in a quarter  shall be  allocated  on a
          daily basis to  Participants  in proportion  to their  interest in the
          Fund on such  business  day.  If the actual  amount of  payment  for a
          quarter differs from the projected amount  allocated,  then as soon as
          practicable   after  the  actual   payment  is  received   appropriate
          adjustments  will be  made in  affected  Participants'  Accounts  that
          remain in the Plan.

               (ii) Any such  payment  made with  respect to an earlier  quarter
          shall  be  allocated  to  Participants  who  have an  interest  in the
          Equity-Income  Fund  on the  last  business  day of  such  quarter  in
          proportion to their interest in the Fund on such date.

               For purposes of (i) and (ii) above, a  Participant's  interest in
          the Equity-Income Fund on a day shall be determined before adjustments
          in Accounts are made for that day in accordance with Section 5.3.

          (4) The Tricon Common Stock Fund: This  investment  option is invested
     primarily  in Company  Stock.  Earnings  will be applied  primarily  to the
     purchase of additional  shares of Company Stock.  The objective of the Fund
     is to parallel the total return (stock price appreciation/depreciation plus
     dividends) of Company Stock. Amounts invested in this investment option are
     subject to fluctuations, and there is no guarantee of future performance.

          A  Participant's  interest in the Fund will be denominated as "units".
     The  value  of a  unit  will  fluctuate  in  response  to  various  factors
     including,  but not limited to, the price of and dividends  paid on Company
     Stock,  earnings and losses on other  investments  in the Fund,  the mix of
     assets in the Fund and Fund  expenses.  The number of units  credited  to a
     Participant's  account will not fluctuate based upon the performance of the
     Fund.  Shares of Tricon  Common  Stock held in the Fund and  dividends  and
     other  distributions on Tricon Common Stock are not specifically  allocated
     to Participant accounts. Each Participant's investment in the Tricon Common
     Stock Fund will be based on the proportion of his investment in the Fund to
     the total investment in the Fund of all Plan Participants.

                                      V-2


          All  dividends on shares of Company  Stock in the Fund are paid to the
     Fund.  Dividends on these shares are added to the Fund without the purchase
     of additional  units in the Fund. The Trustee shall use the dividend income
     to purchase  additional shares of Company Stock for the Fund or to meet the
     cash demands of the Fund.  Any Company  Stock  received by the Trustee as a
     stock  split or  dividend,  or as a  result  of a  reorganization  or other
     recapitalization  of Tricon,  will be added to the assets of the Fund.  Any
     other property (other than shares of Company Stock) received by the Trustee
     may be sold by the Trustee and the proceeds  added to the Fund.  Any rights
     to subscribe  to  additional  shares of Company  Stock shall be sold by the
     Trustee and the proceeds credited to the Fund.

          Participants  who have invested in the Fund may direct the Trustee how
     to vote  (or  tender,  if  applicable)  Company  Stock.  The  Trustee  will
     determine each Participant's proportional share of the Company Stock in the
     Fund (based on the number of units allocated to the Participant's Accounts)
     and solicit the Participant's instructions.  The Trustee shall vote (and/or
     tender) this stock according to the Participant's  directions.  The Trustee
     shall not vote stock in the Fund for which it does not receive directions.

          The  Company  shall  assist  the  Trustee in  furnishing  Participants
     investing in the Tricon Common Stock Fund with proxy materials, notices and
     information  statements at the time voting  rights are to be exercised.  In
     general,  the materials to be furnished  Participants  shall be the same as
     those provided to security holders.

          Shares of  Company  Stock will be  purchased  for the Fund in the open
     market or in privately negotiated transactions,  at prices not in excess of
     the fair market value of the Company  Stock on the date of purchase.  Sales
     of  shares  out of the  Fund  will  also be made in the open  market  or in
     privately negotiated  transactions at prices not lower than the fair market
     value of Company Stock on the date of sale. The Trustee,  or its designated
     agent,  may limit the daily volume of purchases  and sales to the extent it
     believes it will be in the interest of Participants to do so.

     (5) The Brokerage Option:

          (i) Description of Funds:  This investment option will be administered
     by State  Street  Bank and the agents it employs as  securities  brokers to
     execute  Participants' trades. This option permits certain Participants and
     Beneficiaries  to invest all or a portion of their  interest in the Plan in
     additional  choices for self-directed  investment.  The Plan  Administrator
     shall  publish  written  rules and  procedures  for the  election  of these
     additional choices by Participants and  Beneficiaries,  and may revise such
     rules  and  procedures  at any time  and for any  reason.  The  investments
     expected  to be  available  under the  Brokerage  Option are  generally  as
     follows:  securities  traded on the New York Stock  Exchange,  the American
     Stock  Exchange,  and the NASDAQ  exchange,  and  certain  mutual  funds as
     specified by the Plan Administrator.

               (A) The following  investments will not be available  through the
          Brokerage Option:  Non-taxable bonds; options;  futures;  commodities;
          limited  partnerships  which are  unlisted on the New York or American
          Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ  exchange;  foreign  securities which are
          unlisted  on the New York or  American  Stock  Exchange  or the NASDAQ
          exchange;  commercial paper; bank investments (such as certificates of
          deposits  and bank  investment  contracts);  physical  assets (such as
          coins,  art,  jewelry,  and  real  estate);  insurance  investment  or
          insurance  investment  funds;  mutual funds not  specified by the Plan
          Administrator; and securities of the Company or its subsidiaries (even
          if listed on the New York or  American  Stock  Exchange  or the NASDAQ
          exchange).

               (B) The  following  trading  practices are  prohibited  under the
          Brokerage  Option:  Short sales,  margin  trades,  third party trades,
          direct  trades,  and  any  trades  occurring  outside  the  procedures
          established by the Plan Administrator.

                                      V-3

                    (ii) Restrictions:  Each Participant who participates in the
               Brokerage  Option  shall have his interest in the Plan reduced by
               any brokerage  commissions  and fees  (including  fees charged on
               account of one or more  investments  in a mutual fund) payable on
               their individual transactions and shall also have his interest in
               the Plan  reduced by an access fee for each month or part thereof
               that the Participant  participates in the Brokerage Option.  Such
               access  fee will be taken from the Plan in the  following  order:
               Security Plus Fund, Equity-Index Fund, Equity Income Fund, Tricon
               Capital   Stock  Fund  and  the   Brokerage   Option.   The  Plan
               Administrator,  and its agent,  are authorized to sell securities
               or other  assets  held  within a  Participant's  Account  for the
               purpose  of paying the  commissions  and fees  described  in this
               subsection.  Investment in the Brokerage Option is subject to the
               following restrictions:

                         (A) To  commence  investing  under  this  program,  the
                    Participant   must  first  be  eligible  to  enroll  in  the
                    Brokerage  Option. A Participant is eligible to enroll if he
                    has at least $1,000.00 in his Participant Account; completes
                    and  returns  the   application  as  required  by  the  Plan
                    Administrator   or  its  agent;  and  his  initial  transfer
                    election  into the  Brokerage  Option  is at  least  $1,000.
                    Subsequent  transfers to and from the Brokerage  Option must
                    be at least  $250  unless  such  transfer  is to  close  the
                    Participant's   account  under  the  Brokerage  Option.  All
                    transfers  to  the  Brokerage  Option  must  be  from  prior
                    savings.

                         (B) No amounts  invested  either in the  Security  Plus
                    Fund  or in the  Guaranteed  Income  Fund  may  be  directly
                    transferred to the Brokerage Option, and no amounts invested
                    either in the Security Plus Fund or in the Guaranteed Income
                    Fund may be indirectly  transferred to the Brokerage Option,
                    i.e.,  by  first  transferring  the  amounts  to some  other
                    investment  fund (or  funds)  under  the Plan,  unless  such
                    amounts remain invested in the  intervening  fund (or funds)
                    for at least 3 months.

                         (C) Except as  provided  in the last  sentence  of this
                    clause   (C),  no   security   or   investment   held  by  a
                    Participant's  account  within the  Brokerage  Option may be
                    transferred or distributed directly to the Participant.  The
                    Participant  must initially sell the security or investment.
                    The  Trustee  will  place  the  proceeds  of such  sale in a
                    short-term  investment  fund,  designed  to generate a money
                    market  rate of return,  within the  Brokerage  Option.  The
                    proceeds will remain in such account  until the  Participant
                    instructs  the Plan  Administrator  or its agent to transfer
                    all or a portion  of such  proceeds  into one or more of the
                    other  separate  investment  options  within  the Trust Fund
                    provided   that  the   investment   option   chosen  by  the
                    Participant permits contributions. The crediting of earnings
                    within the  short-term  investment  fund and the transfer of
                    funds to other investment funds within the Trust Fund may be
                    delayed until after the  settlement  period for the class of
                    security sold by the  Participant,  ranging from one to five
                    business days.  In-kind  distributions  are permitted in the
                    event of a complete distribution of a Participant's interest
                    as specified under Section 6.1 or 6.2.

                         (i) No amounts  invested in the Guaranteed  Income Fund
                    for  any  Plan  Year  may be  transferred  by a  Participant
                    directly  into  the  Security  Plus  Fund  or the  Brokerage
                    Option.  No amounts  invested in the Guaranteed  Income Fund
                    for  any  Plan  Year  may be  transferred  by a  Participant
                    indirectly  to the  Security  Plus  Fund  or  the  Brokerage
                    Option,  i.e.,  by first  transferring  the  amounts to some
                    other investment fund (or funds) under the Plan, unless such
                    amounts remain invested in the  intervening  fund (or funds)
                    for at least 3 months;  and 

                         (ii)  A  Participant  can  transfer  amounts  from  the
                    Guaranteed  Income Fund into some other  investment fund (or
                    funds)  under the Plan no more than 12 times during the Plan
                    Year.

                                      V-4

     (b) Maintaining  Liquidity:  Notwithstanding  subsection (a) above, for the
purpose of providing liquidity in each of the separate investment options (other
than the Brokerage  Option) under the Plan,  the Trustee may invest a portion of
each fund or investment option under the Plan in cash or short-term  securities.
The  percentage  of assets held for this  purpose is normally  expected to range
from 2-10 percent, but under extraordinary  circumstances the percentages may be
substantially  higher.  Consequently,  the mix of  cash,  securities  and  other
investments  in each of the  investment  funds could vary  significantly  at any
given  time  and the  performance  of any  particular  fund  may not  match  the
performance  of the fund or stock,  as the case may be, outside the Plan. In the
unlikely  event  that  the  amount  of  liquid  assets  held by  these  funds is
insufficient  to satisfy the immediate  demand for liquidity under the Plan, the
Trustee, in consultation with the Plan  Administrator,  may temporarily limit or
suspend  transfers of any type (including  withdrawals and  distributions) to or
from the investment  options  specified in subsection (a). In any such case, the
Plan Administrator shall temporarily change the Plan's Valuation Date or, in its
discretion,  the  Valuation  Date for a specific  option.  During  this  period,
contributions to any affected option may be redirected to substitute investments
chosen by the Trustee.

     (c)  Procedures  for Investment  Directions:  A Participant  may direct the
investment  of the amounts  credited  to him under the Plan into the  investment
options  described in subsection (a) only in accordance with this subsection.  A
Participant  shall  direct  the  investment,  or  change  the  direction  of the
investment,  of  his  future  or  existing  investment  by  directing  the  Plan
Administrator  through  the  telephone  enrollment  system  provided by the Plan
Administrator  for such purpose (or through any other  method made  available by
the Plan  Administrator) and by specifying whether the Participant's  investment
instructions apply to existing savings, future contributions or both.

          (1) The Participant will have sole  responsibility  for the investment
     of his savings and for transfers among the available  investment funds, and
     no named  fiduciary or other person will have any liability for any loss or
     diminution  in value  resulting  from the  Participant's  exercise  of such
     investment  responsibility.  In addition,  because Participants control the
     investment of Participant  Accounts,  the Plan is intended to be covered to
     the  maximum  extent  possible  by  section  404(c)  of ERISA  and  related
     Department of Labor regulations, which provide that Plan fiduciaries may be
     relieved  of  liability  for any losses  that are the result of  investment
     instructions given by a Participant or Beneficiary.

          (2) In the case of an  option  other  than  the  Brokerage  Option,  a
     Participant's  investment  instruction or change in investment  instruction
     shall take effect as of the end of the day on which the  Participant  gives
     such  instruction  or  change  to the Plan  Administrator  (or its  agent),
     provided the Participant  executes such  instruction or change by 3:00 p.m.
     (Eastern  time)  on  a  business  day.  If  the  Participant  executes  his
     instruction  or change on a  Saturday,  Sunday,  holiday or after 3:00 p.m.
     (Eastern  time) on a business day, such  instruction  or change will become
     effective on the next following business day.

          (3) In the case of the Brokerage  Option,  a Participant's  investment
     instruction  or change within the Brokerage  Option or fund  transfers into
     the Brokerage  Option shall be effective in accordance with rules set forth
     by the  Plan  Administrator  consistent  with the  rules  that  govern  the
     exchange or fund in which Participants invest.

     Any investment  direction submitted by a Participant must specify, in whole
percentages  (1 to 100), the percentage of his accounts to be invested in any or
all of the separate investment funds maintained under the Plan. If a Participant
fails to submit a statement of direction  properly  directing the  investment of
100 percent of his accounts, and such failure is not corrected,  the Participant
shall not be eligible to  participate  actively,  or to continue to  participate
actively,  in the Plan;  provided,  however,  that amounts  previously  invested
pursuant to a properly executed statement of investment direction shall continue
to remain invested in the Fund or Funds so elected.  The rules for transfers set
forth in  paragraphs  (2) and (3) above are subject to the last 3  sentences  of
subsection (b) above.


                                       V-5

     (d) Miscellaneous:

          (1) It is expressly permissible under this Plan for Trust assets to be
     invested  in  qualifying  employer  securities,  as that term is defined in
     section  407(d)(5) of ERISA,  up to and  including 100 percent of the total
     Trust assets.  If Company Stock is purchased other than on the open market,
     the Company  Stock shall be valued in good faith and based on all  relevant
     factors,  including the sales prices of such stock,  as reported on the New
     York Stock Exchange, on the date of purchase.

          (2) The separate  investment funds made available under the Trust Fund
     and their rules of operation and valuation may be changed from time to time
     by agreement between the Company and the Trustee.

          (3) As of each  Valuation  Date,  the Trustee will  determine the fair
     market value of the assets in each  separate  investment  fund of the Trust
     Fund,  relying  upon  such  evidence  of  valuation  as the  Trustee  deems
     appropriate.

     5.3  Adjusting  Account  Balances:  As of the  close  of  business  on each
Valuation Date (before adjusting for contributions, distributions and investment
transfers),  Participants'  Accounts  shall be charged  or  credited  with:  

          (a) Investment  Expenses,  
          (b) Investment  income, and 
          (c) Gains and losses in asset values,

to the extent they have occurred with respect to each separate  option (and each
separate  investment within the Brokerage Option) since the preceding  Valuation
Date.  Thereafter,  the final Account  balances as of the Valuation Date will be
determined by adjusting the amounts  determined under the preceding sentence for
contributions,   distributions  and  investment  transfers.  The  allocation  of
Investment  Expenses and  investment  results as of a Valuation Date shall be in
proportion  to the final  Account  balances in the fund or  investment as of the
preceding  Valuation  Date.  Gains and losses in assets values as of a Valuation
Date shall be determined in accordance with rules of the Plan  Administrator and
may not reflect the closing values of the assets on such Valuation Date.

                                      V-6

                                   ARTICLE VI
                          Distributions To Participants

     6.1  Termination of Employment:  Subject to Section 6.2, a Participant  who
incurs a Termination  of Employment  under the Plan shall be entitled to receive
the entire  amount of his interest in the Plan computed as of: (i) the Valuation
Date on which the final  distribution  form for the  Participant is processed by
the Recordkeeper, or (ii) if the Participant's interest in the Plan is $3,500 or
less ($5,000 or less for  distributions  at Annuity  Starting Dates after 1997),
the Valuation Date on which the  Recordkeeper  processes the distribution of the
Participant's  Account (such distribution to be processed as soon as practicable
after the 90 days specified in section 6.6(d)).  Subject to Section 6.6(a),  the
Participant's  interest at  Termination  of  Employment  shall be payable to the
Participant as a lump sum distribution as soon as practicable.

     6.2  Death:  Subject  to  Section  7.1(b),  in the  event of the death of a
Participant,  the entire amount,  if any, of the interest of such Participant in
the Plan shall be paid as  provided  in  Section  6.1,  except  that it shall be
payable  to  such  Participant's  Beneficiary  or  Beneficiaries  determined  in
accordance with Article VIII.

     6.3 Withdrawals:  Subject to the restriction on direct withdrawals from the
Brokerage Option specified in Subsection (c) below, a Participant who has made a
Salary Deferral  Contribution or a Rollover  Contribution  may withdraw  certain
amounts  credited to his Salary  Deferral  Account and  Rollover  Account to the
extent permitted by this section.

     (a)  Hardship  Withdrawals:  In the case of a  Participant  who has not yet
attained  the age of 59-1/2,  withdrawals  shall only be permitted on account of
the Participant's hardship. For this purpose, a withdrawal is made on account of
hardship  only if the  Plan  Administrator  (or  its  delegate)  determines  the
withdrawal  is: (A) made on account of an immediate and heavy  financial need of
the  Participant,  and (B)  necessary  to  satisfy  this  financial  need.  Such
determinations are intended to follow applicable  regulations and rulings issued
by the Internal Revenue Service.

          (1) Immediate and Heavy Financial Need: The determination of whether a
     Participant has an immediate and heavy financial need shall be based on all
     of the relevant facts and circumstances.  In addition, a distribution shall
     be deemed to be made on account of an immediate and heavy financial need of
     the Participant if the distribution is on account of:

               (i) Expenses for medical care (within the meaning of Code section
          213(d)) incurred by the Employee, the Employee's spouse or dependents;

               (ii) A cost directly related to the purchase  (excluding mortgage
          payments) of a principal residence for the Employee;

               (iii)  Payment of tuition  and related  educational  fees for the
          next 12 months  of  post-secondary  education  for the  Employee,  the
          Employee's spouse, children or dependents; or

               (iv) The need to prevent the eviction of the Employee  from, or a
          foreclosure on the mortgage of, the Employee's principal residence.

     For purposes of this paragraph,  "dependent" means an Employee's  dependent
within the meaning of Code section 152. 

          (2) Necessary for the Need: A withdrawal shall be considered necessary
     to satisfy a need described in paragraph (1) only to the extent:

                                      VI-1

               (i) the amount of the  withdrawal  is not in excess of the amount
          required to relieve such need, and

               (ii) the need cannot be satisfied  from other  resources that are
          reasonably available to the Participant.

               Determinations  under this paragraph shall be based on all of the
          relevant  facts and  circumstances.  A  distribution  generally may be
          treated  as  necessary  to  satisfy  a  financial  need  if  the  Plan
          Administrator (or its delegate) relies upon the Participant's  written
          representation  (unless the Plan Administrator has actual knowledge to
          the contrary) that the need cannot reasonably be relieved:

               (A)  Through   reimbursement  or  compensation  by  insurance  or
          otherwise;

               (B) By liquidation of the Participant's assets;

               (C) By cessation of Salary Deferral Contributions;

               (D)  By  other  distributions  or  nontaxable  loans  from  plans
          maintained by an employer,  or by borrowing from commercial sources on
          reasonable  commercial  terms, in an amount  sufficient to satisfy the
          need.

     For this purpose, a need cannot be treated as reasonably  relieved from the
sources listed above if the effect would be to increase the amount of the need.

          (3) Maximum  Withdrawal:  The amount that may be made  available  to a
     Participant for hardship withdrawal may not exceed: 

               (i) The sum of:

                    (A) the Participant's total Salary Deferral Contributions,

                    (B)  any  earnings  on  the  Participant's  Salary  Deferral
               Contributions  credited to the Participant's  Account on December
               31. 1988, and

                    (C) the  Participant's  total  Rollover  Contributions  (and
               contributions  on behalf of the Participant to any other accounts
               that may be  provided  for in the  Appendix)  plus  any  earnings
               thereon; reduced by

               (ii) The amount of any prior  withdrawals and distributions to or
          on behalf of the Participant.

     The  amounts   specified  in  this  paragraph  (except  that  specified  in
subparagraph  (i)(B)) are to be determined as of the Valuation Date on which the
withdrawal is processed.

          (4)  Administrative   Procedures:  A  withdrawal  request  under  this
     subsection shall be made on the form specified for this purpose by the Plan
     Administrator.  For a withdrawal  to be  approved,  this form must be fully
     completed and the Participant  must provide such additional  information as
     the Plan  Administrator  (or its  delegate)  shall  request.  The  hardship
     withdrawal  shall be paid to the  Participant  

                                      VI-2

as promptly as practicable  after its approval and shall not exceed the value of
the Participant's distributable interest.

     (b)  Post-Age  59-1/2  Withdrawals:  In the case of a  Participant  who has
attained age 59-1/2, such Participant shall be eligible to withdraw amounts from
his Account by submitting to the Plan  Administrator  a request in such form and
manner  as the Plan  Administrator  may  provide,  specifying  the  amount to be
withdrawn;  provided,  however, that a Participant shall be ineligible to make a
withdrawal  under this  subsection  more than 2 times  within the same  calendar
year. Distribution shall be made to the Participant as soon as practicable after
the  withdrawal  request is received by the Plan  Administrator,  based upon the
Participant's  balance in his Account as of the Valuation Date the withdrawal is
processed.

     (c)  Order of Asset  Liquidation  for all  Withdrawals:  In the  event  the
Participant's  Account is invested in more than one investment option, a partial
withdrawal will be distributed pro-rata from each of the investment options from
which  withdrawals  are available.  In addition,  withdrawals  directly from the
Brokerage Account are not permitted.

     6.4 Form of  Distributions:  Distributions  under  the Plan on  account  of
Termination  of Employment or death shall be made in cash,  except to the extent
that a  Participant  elects to receive:  (i) his  interest in the Tricon  Common
Stock Fund in whole  shares of Company  Stock;  or (ii)  securities  held in his
Brokerage  Option as  permitted  in Section  5.2(a)(5)(ii)(C).  An  election  to
receive an in-kind distribution shall not apply to fractional shares, uninvested
cash or amounts invested for liquidity purposes, and shall not be available with
respect to hardship withdrawals under section 6.3(a).

     6.5  Errors  in  Participant's  Accounts:  When an  error  or  omission  is
discovered  in an  account  of a  Participant,  the Plan  Administrator  and the
Trustee  shall  be  authorized  to make  such  equitable  adjustments  as may be
appropriate as of the Plan Year in which the error or omission is discovered.

     6.6 Commencement of Payments:  Notwithstanding  anything in the Plan to the
contrary,  the  distribution  of a  Participant's  benefits  hereunder  shall be
determined in accordance with the provisions of this section and shall otherwise
comply with Code section  401(a)(9) and the regulations  under section 401(a)(9)
including section  1.401(a)(9)-2.  In addition,  any provisions of the Plan that
reflect Code section  401(a)(9)  (including  subsection (b) below)  override any
other  distribution  options in the Plan that are inconsistent with Code section
401(a)(9).

     (a) Consent Requirements:  Effective as of January 1, 1985, if the value of
a  Participant's  total  interest  in the  Plan  exceeds  $3,500  at the  time a
distribution  is to be  made,  then  such  interest  shall  not  be  distributed
hereunder  prior to the  Participant's  attainment of age 65 or death unless the
Participant consents in writing, on a form prescribed by the Plan Administrator,
to  the  earlier  distribution  of  his  interest  in the  Plan.  However,  upon
termination  of  the  Plan,  the   Participant's   interest  may,   without  the
Participant's  consent,  be distributed to him or transferred to another defined
contribution  plan (other than an employee  stock  ownership  plan as defined in
Code section 4975(e)(7)) maintained by the Employer.

     (b) Code Section  401(a)(14)  Provisions:  Subject to subsection (c) below,
distribution  of a  Participant's  interest in the Plan shall not commence later
than the 60th day after the close of the latest of the following:

          (1) The Plan Year in which the Participant attains age 65,

          (2) The Plan Year in which  occurs the tenth  anniversary  of the date
     his participation commenced,

                                      VI-3

          (3) The Plan Year in which  occurs the  Participant's  Termination  of
     Employment, or

          (4) The Plan Year  containing  the date to which the  Participant  has
     elected in writing to defer commencement of his Plan distribution.

     If a distribution  otherwise  payable to a Participant  or his  Beneficiary
hereunder remains unpaid because the Plan Administrator (after making reasonable
efforts)  cannot  locate  the   Participant  or   Beneficiary,   the  amount  so
distributable  shall be treated as a forfeiture  under the Plan.  Following  its
forfeiture,  such amount shall be used to pay any expense of Plan administration
which may be  charged to the Plan in  accordance  with  ERISA.  In the event the
Participant or his  Beneficiary  is located  subsequent to the forfeiture of his
Account,  such Account  shall be restored,  without  adjustment  for earnings or
losses,  and payment to the  Participant or  Beneficiary  shall be made no later
than 60 days  after  the  date on  which  the  Plan  Administrator  locates  the
Participant or Beneficiary.

     (c) Code Section 401(a)(9) Provisions:

          (1) A Participant's  total interest in the Plan must be distributed to
     him no later than the Participant's required beginning date.

               (i) In the case of a Participant who is not a percent owner after
          1979, the "required beginning date" shall be determined as follows:

                    (A) If the  Participant  attains age 70-1/2 after 1987,  the
               required  beginning  date is the April 1 following  the  calendar
               year in which the Participant  attains age 70-1/2 (but not before
               April 1, 1990).

                    (B) If the  Participant  attains age 70-1/2 before 1988, the
               required  beginning  date is the April 1 following  the  calendar
               year in which occurs the later of his  Termination  of Employment
               or attainment of age 70-1/2.

               (ii) In the case of a Participant  who is a 5 percent owner after
          1979,  the required  beginning date is the April 1 following the later
          of:

                    (A) the calendar year in which the  Participant  attains age
               70-1/2, or

                    (B) the first calendar year in which the Participant  either
               becomes a 5 percent owner or terminates employment.

     For purposes of this paragraph, a 5-percent owner is any Participant who is
a  5-percent  owner as  defined  in section  416(i) of the Code  (determined  in
accordance with section 416 but without regard to whether the Plan is top-heavy)
at any time  during the Plan Year  ending  with or within the  calendar  year in
which such owner attains age 66-1/2 or any subsequent Plan Year.


                                      VI-4

          (2) In the event a Participant  dies on or after his Annuity  Starting
     Date but before  actual  payment has  commenced,  the  Participant's  total
     interest  in the Plan (if any) shall be  distributed  by December 31 of the
     calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the Participant's date of
     death occurs.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if the Participant's
     designated  beneficiary  is his surviving  spouse and the surviving  spouse
     dies after the  Participant,  but before payments to such spouse begin, the
     provisions  of  this  subsection  6.6(c)(2)  shall  be  applied  as if  the
     surviving spouse were the Participant.

     (d) Cashout Distributions: Subject to the last sentence of this subsection,
upon a Participant's death or other Termination of Employment,  the value of the
Participant's  total interest in the Plan shall be automatically  distributed to
him in a lump-sum cash distribution as soon as practicable following the earlier
of (i) the date the Participant  reaches age 65 (or such later date as permitted
by the Plan Administrator in accordance with Code section  401(a)(14));  or (ii)
90 days after the  Participant's  Termination  of  Employment.  However,  such a
Participant  (or where the  Participant  has died, his Beneficiary as determined
under Article VIII) can effect an earlier  distribution by submitting a properly
completed  final   distribution  form  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  By submitting a properly  completed final distribution form, the
Participant may elect to receive an in-kind  distribution as provided in Section
6.4.  Notwithstanding  any provision of this Section 6.6(d) to the contrary,  if
such  Participant  is  disabled  (within  the  meaning of the  Tricon  Long Term
Disability Plan) or has a total interest in the Plan in excess of $3,500 ($5,000
after 1997) and has not died, a  distribution  of his total interest in the Plan
will not occur until the earlier of: (i) the date the Participant attains age 65
(or such later date as permitted by the Plan  Administrator  in accordance  with
Code section  401(a)(14));  or (ii) the date the Participant  submits a properly
completed  final   distribution  form  in  the  manner  specified  by  the  Plan
Administrator.

     6.7 Payment for Benefit of Disabled or Incapacitated  Person:  Whenever, in
the opinion of the Plan Administrator or its agent, a person entitled to receive
any  payment  of  a  benefit  hereunder  is  under  a  legal  disability  or  is
incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his financial affairs, the
Plan  Administrator or its agent may direct the Trustee to make payments to such
person or to his legal  representative or to a relative or friend of such person
for his benefit,  or the Plan  Administrator or its agent may direct the Trustee
to apply the  payment  for the benefit of such person in such manner as the Plan
Administrator  or its agent  considers  advisable.  Any  payment of a benefit or
installment thereof in accordance with the provisions of this section shall be a
complete  discharge of any  liability  for the making of such payment  under the
provisions of the Plan.

     6.8 No Other Benefits or Withdrawals:  Except as expressly  provided for in
this Article VI or the Appendix,  no individual,  whether a Participant,  former
Participant,  Beneficiary or otherwise, shall be entitled to any distribution or
withdrawal of funds from the Trust Fund.

     6.9 Participants Who Cannot Be Located: If the Plan Administrator after the
passage  of a period of time  (which  period  shall be  established  by the Plan
Administrator  in  accordance  with  reasonable  administrative  practices)  and
reasonable  due  diligence  is  unable  to locate  an  inactive  Participant  or
Beneficiary  to whom a payment is due under this  Article  VI, the amount of the
Account due such person  shall be treated as a  forfeiture  hereunder,  provided
that any such  forfeited  benefits  shall be  subject  to  reinstatement  if the
inactive Participant or Beneficiary ever makes a valid claim for the benefit. If
a claim is made for a benefit  that was  forfeited  under this  Section 6.9, the
benefit  to be  restored  shall  be the  dollar  value of the  Account  that was
forfeited,  determined  as of the  date  the  forfeiture  occurred  without  any
interest,  earnings  or  adjustments  in  value  occurring  after  the  date  of
forfeiture.  This Section 6.9 shall be administered by the Plan Administrator in
accordance with any restrictions mandated by law. Forfeitures occurring pursuant
to this  Section 6.9 shall be used to pay Plan  expenses as described in Section
9.2 and, to the extent not so used or reserved for such use,  shall be allocated
to Participants in the manner determined by Plan amendment.

                                      VI-5

                                   ARTICLE VII
                                   Plan Loans

     7.1 Eligibility for Plan loans:  Subject to the  restrictions  set forth in
this Article VII, the opportunity to take a Plan loan shall be made available to
any Participant who, at the time such loan is to be made:

     (a) is actively  employed by an Employer who has agreed to  participate  in
the loan program;

     (b) has a minimum account balance of $2,000 in the Plan;

     (c) has not defaulted on a Plan loan within the prior two years; and

     (d)  consents  to and  authorizes  repayment  of the loan  through  payroll
deductions.  Employers  that are not  participating  in the loan  program may be
designated  by the Plan  Administrator  from time to time.  The  requirement  of
subsection (a) above shall be deemed  satisfied in the case of a Participant who
is not currently  employed if the  Participant is a party in interest within the
meaning of ERISA section 3(14).  For purposes of subsection (c) above,  the time
of default shall be determined under Section 7.9

     7.2 Application  Procedure: A Participant shall apply for a loan by calling
into the telephone system  established by the Plan  Administrator  and providing
the requested  information  ("Telephone  Application").  As soon as  practicable
after the Participant's Telephone Application, the Plan Administrator shall send
such Participant a promissory  note, an authorization  form for withholding loan
payments  from the  Participant's  pay, a document  granting the Plan a security
interest in the  Participant's  Plan account,  and any other  documents the Plan
Administrator deems appropriate ("Application Forms"). The promissory note shall
state  the  amount  and  term of the  loan,  the  applicable  interest  rate and
repayment   schedule,   and  other   information   as  determined  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  To complete the application,  the Participant must properly fill
out, sign and return the Application Forms so that they are received by the Plan
Administrator  within 30 days of the date of the Application  Forms are prepared
by  the  Plan.  The  Plan  Administrator  shall  approve  a  Participant's  loan
application if the Participant:

     (a) is eligible for a loan pursuant to Article 7.1,

     (b) has properly completed and timely returned the Application Forms, and

     (c) is  requesting  a loan that meets the terms of this Article VII and the
summary plan description for this Plan.

An  approved  loan  will be  disbursed  as soon as  practicable  after  the Plan
Administrator has received the Application Forms from the Participant.

     7.3 Loan  Amount:  A Plan  loan  shall not be less than  $1,000  nor,  when
aggregated with all other outstanding  loans to such borrowing  Participant from
qualified retirement plans of the Company and any affiliated  companies,  exceed
the least of (rounded down to the nearest hundred):

     (a)  $50,000  (reduced  by the  excess  of (i)  the  Participant's  highest
outstanding loan balance during the preceding  one-year period ending on the day
before the date the loan was made,  over (ii) the  outstanding  balance of loans
from the Plan on the date the loan is made);

     (b) 50% of the Participant's account balance under the Plan;

                                     VII-1

     (c) 100% of the value of the  Participant's  investments  in the  following
"Core" Funds:  Tricon  Common  Stock,  Security  Plus,  Equity-Index  and Equity
Income; or

     (d) the maximum loan amount that can be amortized by the  Participant's net
pay (determined under Section 7.8).

The value of the Participant's  account balance and investment in the Core Funds
shall  be  based  on  the  market  values  of  such  items  at the  time  of the
Participant's  Telephone  Application or the issuance of the loan,  whichever is
less.

     7.4 Maximum Number of Outstanding Loans and Refinancing:

     (a) A Participant  shall not have more than one loan  outstanding  from the
Plan  at any  time.  Subject  to  subsection  (b),  no  loan  may be  made  to a
Participant until the repayment of any previous loan to such Participant.

     (b) A  Participant  with an  outstanding  loan from the Plan is eligible to
apply for a refinanced loan, provided the refinanced loan is issued at least two
years (six months,  effective  as soon as  practicable  after  October 20, 1995)
after  issuance of the  outstanding  loan. A refinanced  loan shall meet all the
requirements  for a loan set forth in this Article VII. Its proceeds shall first
be applied to repay the  balance of the  outstanding  loan,  with any  remainder
payable to the Participant as cash. The interest rate,  fees, term and repayment
schedule  applicable to a refinanced loan shall be determined  without reference
to the original loan.

     7.5  Effect  on  Participant's   Investment:  A  loan  shall  constitute  a
segregated  investment  solely  of the  Account  of the  borrowing  Participant.

     (a) When  initially  made,  a loan  shall  be  funded  from  the  borrowing
Participant's Core Fund investments, prorated based on the Participant's balance
in each Core Fund.

     (b) All  repayments  of  principal  and related  interest and any gains and
losses on a loan shall be credited to the borrowing  Participant's account. Loan
repayments  shall be  invested  in  accordance  with the  Participant's  current
investment direction for Salary Deferral Contributions.  If the Participant does
not have an investment direction in effect on the date of the Participant's Loan
Application, the Participant must provide an investment direction as part of his
loan application.  When a selected  investment is no longer  available,  or when
otherwise  necessary,  loan repayments shall be invested in the manner specified
by the Plan Administrator from time to time.

     (c) A loan shall be adequately  secured at all times. All loans are secured
by the portion of the  borrowing  Participant's  Account that is invested in the
Participant's  loan. If the  principal  amount of a loan  immediately  after its
issuance  does not  exceed 50 percent  of the  Participant's  Account as of such
time, the loan shall be deemed adequately secured at all times hereunder.

     7.6 Fees. Following the issuance of a loan, the borrowing Participant shall
pay a one-time  origination fee. For each month or part thereof the loan remains
outstanding the borrowing  Participant shall pay a monthly  administration  fee.
Such fee shall be  deducted  from the  Participant's  Account  at the end of the
applicable month. They shall be charged against the position of the Account that
is not  invested  in the loan,  in  accordance  with  rules  adopted by the Plan
Administrator.  The fees applicable to a Participant's  loan shall be determined
on the date of the  Participant's  Telephone  Application  and shall not  change
while such loan is outstanding.

                                     VII-2

     7.7 Interest Rate. Plan loans shall bear a reasonable rate of interest that
provides the Plan with a return  commensurate with the interest rates charged by
persons in the  business  of lending  money for loans  which would be made under
similar circumstances as part of a similar nationwide loan program. To this end,
the Plan  Administrator  shall adopt rules and procedures for redetermining on a
monthly basis the interest rate applicable to new Plan loans.  The interest rate
for any loan shall be fixed for the  period of the loan and shall be  determined
as of the date of the related Telephone  Application.  No interest rate shall be
less than the  applicable  federal rate in effect under  Section  1274(d) of the
Code, as of the day on which the loan was initiated, compounded annually.

     7.8 Term and Repayment.

     (a) Term.  Subject to subsections (c) through (e), the term of a loan shall
be not less than 1 year nor  greater  than 4 years,  measuring  from the date of
issuance.

     (b)  Repayment.  Subject  to  subsections  (c)  through  (e),  a  borrowing
Participant  shall  repay his  outstanding  loan by making  substantially  level
amortization payments at the interval determined by the Plan Administrator. When
a  Participant  is  receiving  net  pay,  this  shall  be  the  interval  of the
Participant's regular payroll checks from the Employer, and loan repayments (and
any  outstanding  loan amounts that are due and payable)  shall be withheld from
the  Participant's net pay to the extent possible.  For this purpose,  "net pay"
shall mean a Participant's pay from an Employer, reduced by applicable taxes and
such  other  payroll   deductions  that  are  accorded   priority  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  Notwithstanding the preceding provisions,  direct payment to the
Plan  Administrator  shall be required in the case of a Participant who is on an
authorized  leave of  absence  or long term  disability,  or a  Participant  who
becomes a foreign service employee.  For purposes of this subsection,  a loan is
not considered outstanding following its default.

     (c)  Prepayment.  A  Participant  may prepay his  entire  outstanding  loan
balance  without  penalty  after first  notifying the Plan  Administrator.  Upon
notification,  the Plan  Administrator  shall make the necessary  administrative
arrangements  to  permit  repayment  and shall  advise  the  Participant  of the
payment-in-full  amount and its due date. No partial  prepayments are permitted,
and no payment-in-full amount will be accepted after its due date.

     (d)  Terminating  Employees.  Notwithstanding  subsections  (a) and (b), an
outstanding  loan  shall  become  immediately  due  and  payable  in full if the
borrowing  Participant  retires,  dies or otherwise terminates  employment.  For
purposes  of this  subsection,  a  Participant's  employment  shall be deemed to
continue:  (1) while he is receiving  long term  disability  benefits and making
loan repayment directly to the Plan  Administrator,  or (2) while he is repaying
his loan through  payroll  deduction from salary  continuation  or other similar
payments.

     (e)  Termination of Loan Program.  In the event the Plan  terminates or the
portion of the Plan applicable to a Participant  terminates,  the  Participant's
loan shall become due and payable in full immediately.

     7.9 Loan Default. A loan shall be in default if:

     (a) the  borrowing  Participant  is  delinquent  on more  than 12  weeks of
scheduled loan repayment amounts;

     (b) the loan becomes due and payable and the  Participant  fails to pay the
outstanding principal amount plus accrued interest within 60 days;

                                     VII-3

     (c) the term of the loan has been  extended  to more  than 56  months  as a
result of the  Participant's  failure or inability to make timely loan payments;
or

     (d)  there  occurs  such  other  circumstances  as the  Plan  Administrator
considers to be a default in order to protect the interests of the Plan.

A  default  on a Plan  loan  occurs  on the  date  the  first  of the  preceding
conditions is met. If a default on a  Participant's  Plan loan occurs,  the Plan
shall have the right to foreclose on the Participant's  security interest in his
Account,  and  shall do so on or after the  first  distributable  event for such
Participant  described in Article VI (other than a hardship  distribution  event
pursuant to Section 6.3(a)).

     7.10  Nondiscrimination.  Loans shall be made available to all Participants
who meet the  requirements  set forth in section 7.1 on a reasonably  equivalent
basis, except that the Plan Administrator may make reasonable distinctions based
on other  obligations  of the  Participant,  state  law  requirements  affecting
payroll  deductions  and other factors that may adversely  affect the ability to
assure repayment through payroll deduction.  The Plan Administrator may refuse a
requested  loan where it  determines  that timely  repayment of the loan through
payroll deduction is not assured.

     7.11  Collins  Food  International,   Inc.  With  respect  to  a  borrowing
Participant:  (i) who was employed by Collins Food  International,  Inc.  before
becoming employed by Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation and (ii) who has a loan
outstanding  under the Plan, the provisions of this Article VII shall apply.  In
addition,  the terms of the  promissory  note for such  outstanding  loan  shall
govern to the extent not in conflict with this Plan or applicable federal law.

     7.12 Miscellaneous.

     (a) Additional  Documentation.  A Participant  shall execute any additional
documents as required by the Plan Administrator that correct  ministerial errors
in the Application Forms, or that are required for proper  administration of the
loan.

     (b) Agent of Plan  Administrator.  The Plan  Administrator may designate an
exclusive  agent  for  purposes  of  administration  of some or all of the  loan
program,  and to such  extent any  references  in this  Article  VII to the Plan
Administrator shall mean the designated agent.

     (c) Power to Amend Outstanding Loans. It is specifically  intended that the
Company's  power to amend the Plan set forth in Article XI applies to loans from
this Plan that are outstanding  (including  loans in default) at the time of the
amendment.

                                     VII-4

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                          Determination of Beneficiary

A  Participant's  Beneficiary  under the Plan shall be  determined in accordance
with this Article.  In the event of a Participant's  death,  any interest of the
Participant in the Plan shall be payable to such  Beneficiary in accordance with
Section 6.2.

     8.1 Certain  Married  Participants:  A Participant's  Beneficiary  shall be
determined in accordance with this Section if: (i) the Participant is married on
the date of his death,  and (ii) the  Participant  is credited with at least one
Hour of Service after August 22, 1984.

     (a) Deaths After November 13, 1984:

          (1) Qualified  Designations:  If a Participant covered by this section
     dies  after  November  13,  1984,  and  has  a  Qualified  Designation  (as
     hereinafter  defined)  in  effect  on the  date  of his  death,  then  such
     Participant's  Beneficiary shall be the person or persons designated by the
     Participant in the most recent Qualified  Designation on file with the Plan
     Administrator.  For purposes of this subsection,  a "Qualified Designation"
     is any Designation of Beneficiary  form filed by a Participant  which names
     someone other than the Participant's spouse as a primary  beneficiary,  and
     which meets the requirements of subparagraphs (i) or (ii) below:

               (i) A  Participant's  Designation of  Beneficiary  form meets the
          requirements of this subparagraph if:

                    (A) such  designation  is  consented  to in  writing  by the
               spouse  to whom the  Participant  is  married  on the date of his
               death,

                    (B) the  spouse's  consent  acknowledges  the  effect of the
               designation,

                    (C) the spouse's  consent is witnessed by a notary public or
               an official designated by the Plan Administrator, and

                    (D)  the  designation  is  signed  by  the  Participant  and
               satisfies any other requirements which are prescribed by the Plan
               Administrator.

               (ii) A  Participant's  Designation of Beneficiary  form meets the
          requirements of this subparagraph if:

                    (A) at the time such form is filed, it is established to the
               satisfaction  of  the  Plan   Administrator  (or  its  authorized
               representative)  that the consent required under subparagraph (i)
               may not be obtained  because the  Participant's  spouse cannot be
               located  or  because  of  such  other  circumstances  as  may  be
               specified by Internal Revenue Service Regulations,

                    (B) the Participant is legally  separated or the Participant
               has been abandoned  (within the meaning of local law) and (I) the
               Participant  has a court order to such effect,  and (II) there is
               no qualified domestic relations order (within the meaning of Code
               section   414(p))   which   requires   spousal   consent  to  the
               Participant's elections covered by this section, and

                    (C)  the  designation  is  signed  by  the  Participant  and
               satisfies any other requirements which are prescribed by the Plan
               Administrator.

                                     VIII-1

                    Consent  by a  spouse,  or  establishment  that  a  spouse's
               consent cannot be obtained,  shall be effective only with respect
               to such individual  spouse. If the spouse is legally  incompetent
               to give  consent,  consent  may be  given by the  spouse's  legal
               guardian (even if the guardian is the Participant). Once a spouse
               has given consent to an election of the Participant, such consent
               shall be irrevocable.

          (2) No Qualified Designation: If a Participant covered by this Section
     dies after November 13, 1984, and does not have a Qualified  Designation in
     effect on the date of his death,  then  notwithstanding  any Designation of
     Beneficiary  form the Participant may have  completed,  such  Participant's
     sole Beneficiary shall be his spouse. A Participant's Qualified Designation
     shall not be considered to be in effect hereunder if all the  Participant's
     designated Beneficiaries have predeceased the Participant.

     (b) Deaths Before  November 14, 1984:  If a  Participant  described in this
Section dies before November 14, 1984, then  notwithstanding  any Designation of
Beneficiary  form  the  Participant  may  have  completed,   such  Participant's
Beneficiary for one-half of his interest in the Plan shall be such Participant's
spouse.  If the  amount  payable to the  Participant's  spouse  pursuant  to the
preceding sentence would exceed $3,500, then notwithstanding any other provision
contained herein,  such one-half of the Participant's  interest shall be payable
to the spouse as a life  annuity  unless the spouse  consents  in writing to the
distribution  of such  amount  as a lump  sum.  The  remaining  one-half  of the
Participant's  interest  in the  Plan  shall  be  payable  to the  Participant's
Beneficiary  determined  in  accordance  with  Section  8.2 (as if such  Section
applied with respect to the Participant).

     8.2 Other Participants:  A Participant's Beneficiary shall be determined in
accordance  with this Section if: (i) the Participant is not married on the date
of his death,  or (ii) the  Participant  is not credited with an Hour of Service
after August 22, 1984.

     (a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) below, the Beneficiary of
a Participant  covered by this Section shall be the person or persons designated
by the  Participant on the most recent  Designation of Beneficiary  form on file
with the Plan  Administrator.  A Designation  of  Beneficiary  form shall not be
taken  into  account  under  this  section  unless  it has  been  signed  by the
Participant.

     (b) In the case of a Participant  covered by this Section who is married at
death, any Designation of Beneficiary  form executed by such  Participant  after
December  31, 1984 shall not be effective  hereunder  unless such form meets the
requirements of Section 8.1(a)(1)(i) or (ii).

     (c) In the event  benefits  became  payable upon the death of a Participant
described in this Section and no  Beneficiary  has been  properly  designated as
provided in  subsections  (a) and (b), or if all such  designated  Beneficiaries
shall have predeceased the Participant,  then the Participant's sole Beneficiary
hereunder shall be his estate.

                                     VIII-2

                                   ARTICLE IX
                                 Administration

     9.1  Allocation  of  Responsibility  Among  Fiduciaries  for Plan and Trust
Administration:  The Fiduciaries shall have only those specific powers,  duties,
responsibilities, and obligations as are specifically given them under this Plan
or  the  Trust  instrument.   The  Plan   Administrator   shall  have  the  sole
responsibility  for the  administration  of the Plan,  which  responsibility  is
specifically  described in this Plan and the Trust  instrument,  except where an
agent is appointed to perform administrative duties as specifically agreed to by
the Plan Administrator and the agent. Subject to Section 5.2(c)(1),  the Trustee
shall have the sole  responsibility  for the administration of the Trust and the
management  of the assets held under the Trust as  specifically  provided in the
Trust  instrument,  except where an investment  manager has been appointed or as
provided  otherwise in the Trust  instrument.  Each Fiduciary  warrants that any
directions  given,  information  furnished,  or  action  taken by it shall be in
accordance with the provisions of the Plan or the Trust instrument,  as the case
may be,  authorizing  or providing for such  direction,  information  or action.
Furthermore,  each Fiduciary may rely upon any direction,  information or action
of another  Fiduciary as being  proper under this Plan or the Trust,  and is not
required  under this Plan or the Trust  instrument to inquire into the propriety
of any direction,  information or action. It is intended under this Plan and the
Trust  instrument  that  each  Fiduciary  shall be  responsible  for the  proper
exercise of its own powers, duties,  responsibilities and obligations under this
Plan and the  Trust  instrument  and  shall  not be  responsible  for any act or
failure to act of another  Fiduciary.  No Fiduciary  guarantees the Trust in any
manner against investment loss or depreciation in asset value.

     9.2   Administration:   The  Plan  shall  be   administered   by  the  Plan
Administrator  which  may  appoint  or  employ  individuals  to  assist  in  the
administration  of the Plan and which may appoint or employ any other  agents it
deems advisable, including legal counsel, actuaries and auditors to serve at the
Plan   Administrator's   direction.   All  usual  and  reasonable   expenses  of
maintaining,  operating and administering the Plan and the Trust,  including the
expenses of the Plan Administrator and the Trustee (and their agents),  shall be
paid from the Trust (whether  directly or by reimbursement to the Company or the
Employer),  except to the extent the Company or the  Employer  elect to pay such
expenses.

     9.3 Claims Procedure: The Plan Administrator,  or a party designated by the
Plan Administrator, shall have the exclusive discretionary authority to construe
and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of  eligibility  for benefits
and to determine the amount of such  benefits,  and its decision on such matters
are final and conclusive.  Any exercise of this discretionary authority shall be
reviewed by a court under the  arbitrary and  capricious  standard,  (i.e.,  the
abuse of discretion standard).  If, pursuant to this discretionary authority, an
assertion of any right to a benefit by a Participant or beneficiary is wholly or
partially  denied,  the Plan  Administrator,  or a party  designated by the Plan
Administrator,  will  provide  such  claimant a  comprehensible  written  notice
setting forth:

     (a) The specific reason or reasons for such denial;

     (b) Specific  reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is
based;

     (c) A description of any additional  material or information  necessary for
the  claimant  to submit to  perfect  the claim and an  explanation  of why such
material or information is necessary; and


                                      IX-1

     (d) A description  of the Plan's claim review  procedure.  The claim review
procedure  is  available  upon  written  request  by the  claimant  to the  Plan
Administrator,  or the  designated  party,  within 60 days after  receipt by the
claimant of written notice of the denial of the claim, and includes the right to
examine  pertinent  documents  and submit  issues and comments in writing to the
Plan Administrator, or the designated party. The decision on review will be made
within 60 days after  receipt of the request for  review,  unless  circumstances
warrant an extension of time not to exceed an additional  60 days,  and shall be
in writing and drafted in a manner  calculated to be understood by the claimant,
and include  specific  reasons for the decision with  references to the specific
Plan provisions on which the decision is based.

If circumstances  warrant,  the Plan Administrator  shall provide the claimant a
written notice,  prior to the end of the 90-day period for processing the claim,
extending  such  period  by up to an  additional  90  days  and  indicating  the
circumstances   requiring   the  extension  and  the  date  by  which  the  Plan
Administrator expects to render its decision. If the Plan Administrator fails to
provide a  comprehensible  written  notice  stating  that the claim is wholly or
partially denied and setting forth the information  described in (a) through (d)
above  within the 90-day  processing  period and if no  extension of such 90-day
period is made,  the  claim  shall be  deemed  denied.  Once the claim is deemed
denied,  the  Participant  shall be  entitled  to the  claims  review  procedure
described in subsection (d) above. Such review procedure shall be available upon
written request by the claimant to the Plan  Administrator  within 60 days after
the claim is  deemed  denied.  Any  claim  referenced  in this  section  that is
reviewed by a court, arbitrator,  or any other tribunal shall be reviewed solely
on the basis of the record before the Plan Administrator.  In addition, any such
review shall be conditioned on the claimants  having fully  exhausted all rights
under this section.

     9.4  Records  and  Reports:  The Plan  Administrator  shall  exercise  such
authority and  responsibility  as it deems  appropriate  in order to comply with
ERISA and  government  regulations  issued  thereunder  relating  to  records of
Participants' service and benefits;  notifications to Participants;  reports to,
or registration with, the Internal Revenue Service; reports to the Department of
Labor; and such other documents and reports as may be required by ERISA.

     9.5 Other  Administrative  Powers and Duties: The Plan Administrator  shall
have such powers and duties as may be necessary  or  desirable to discharge  its
functions hereunder, including:

     (a) To exercise its  discretionary  authority to construe and interpret the
Plan,  decide all questions of eligibility and determine the amount,  manner and
time of payment of any benefits hereunder;

     (b) To prescribe procedures to be followed by Participants or Beneficiaries
filing applications for benefits;

     (c) To prepare and  distribute,  in such  manner as the Plan  Administrator
determines to be appropriate, information explaining the Plan;

     (d) To  receive  from  employees  and  agents  and from  Participants  such
information as shall be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan;

     (e) To receive,  review and keep on file (as it deems convenient or proper)
reports of the financial  condition,  and of the receipts and disbursements,  of
the Trust from the Trustee;

     (f) To  appoint  or employ  individuals  or other  parties to assist in the
administration  of the Plan and any other agents it deems  advisable,  including
accountants, actuaries and legal counsel; and

                                      IX-2

     (g) To delegate to other  persons or  entities,  or to  designate or employ
persons  to  carry  out any of the  Plan  Administrator's  fiduciary  duties  or
responsibilities or other functions under the Plan.

     9.6 Rules and Decisions:  The Plan  Administrator  may adopt such rules and
procedures  as it deems  necessary,  desirable,  or  appropriate.  To the extent
practicable,  all  rules  and  decisions  of the  Plan  Administrator  shall  be
uniformly and consistently applied to all Participants in similar circumstances.
When making a determination  or  calculation,  the Plan  Administrator  shall be
entitled to rely upon information furnished by a Participant or beneficiary, the
legal counsel of the Plan Administrator, or the Trustee.

     9.7 Procedures: The Plan Administrator shall keep all necessary records and
forward all necessary  communications to the Trustee. The Plan Administrator may
adopt such regulations as it deems desirable for the administration of the Plan.

     9.8 Authorization of Benefit  Distributions:  The Plan Administrator  shall
issue  directions to the Trustee  concerning  all benefits  which are to be paid
from the Trust  pursuant to the  provisions of the Plan,  and shall warrant that
all such directions are in accordance with this Plan.

     9.9 Application and Forms for  Distributions:  The Plan  Administrator  may
require  a  Participant  to  complete  and file with the Plan  Administrator  an
application  for a  distribution  and  all  other  forms  approved  by the  Plan
Administrator,  and to furnish all pertinent  information  requested by the Plan
Administrator.  The Plan  Administrator  may rely upon all such  information  so
furnished it,  including the  Participant's  current  mailing  address,  age and
marital status.


                                      IX-3

                                    ARTICLE X
                                   Trust Fund

     All  contributions  made by the Employers,  or the Company on behalf of the
Employers,  under this Plan shall be paid to the  Trustee and  deposited  in the
Trust Fund or with an insurance company or a financial institution pursuant to a
contract to be held and invested in accordance with the Trust instrument. Assets
of  other  plans  maintained  by  the  Tricon   Organization,   which  meet  the
requirements  of Code section 401, may be commingled,  for  investment  purposes
only,  through one or more  master  trust  arrangements  with the assets of this
Plan.  The  Company  shall have the right to appoint  an  investment  manager or
investment  managers (as defined in section 3(38) of ERISA) to manage all or any
part of the assets of the Trust Fund.


                                      X-1

                                   ARTICLE XI
                              Amendment of the Plan

     The Company shall have the right at any time by instrument in writing, duly
executed and  acknowledged  and  delivered to the Trustee,  to modify,  alter or
amend this Plan in whole or in part.  However,  except as permissible  under the
Code and ERISA, no amendment shall:

     (a) Reduce the amounts in any  Participant's  Account because of forfeiture
or reduce the vested right or interest to which any  Participant  or Beneficiary
is then entitled under this Plan;

     (b) Eliminate an optional  form of benefit with respect to a  Participant's
Account as of the date of the amendment;

     (c) Cause or authorize  any part of the Trust Fund to revert or be refunded
to the Employer; or

     (d) Cause any assets of the Trust to be used for, or diverted to,  purposes
other than for the exclusive  benefit of  Participants  and their  Beneficiaries
(other  than  such  part  as  is   required   to  pay  taxes  and   expenses  of
administration).

To the extent  permitted  under the Code,  the  Company  shall have the right to
amend the Plan at any time,  retroactively or otherwise, in such respects and to
such extent as may be necessary to qualify it under existing and applicable laws
and  regulations  in order to make  available to the  Employers the tax benefits
associated with qualified  plans,  including the full deduction for tax purposes
of the Employer contributions made hereunder. A participating Employer shall not
have the right to amend the Plan.  Notwithstanding  any provision  herein to the
contrary,  the Company may by such  amendment  decrease or otherwise  affect the
rights of Participants hereunder if, and to the extent,  necessary to accomplish
such purpose.

                                      XI-1

                                   ARTICLE XII
                             Termination of the Plan

     The Plan herein  provided for has been  established by the Company with the
bona  fide  intention  that it shall be  continued  in  operation  indefinitely.
However, the Company reserves the right at any time to terminate or to partially
terminate  the  Plan.   In  addition,   a   participating   Employer  may  cease
participation in the Plan with respect to its Employees.

     Should the Company  decide to  terminate  the Plan,  the  Trustee  shall be
notified of such event in writing and shall proceed at the direction of the Plan
Administrator to handle the assets of the Trust Fund, as follows:

     First, to the extent determined by the Plan  Administrator,  to pay any due
and accrued  expenses and liabilities of the Trust and any expenses  involved in
the termination.

     Second,  to pay to  Participants  in the  Plan  who  are  active  Employees
affected by such  termination the amount of their interest in the Trust Fund, as
soon as permitted by applicable law, as determined by the Plan Administrator. If
some or all of the Participants may not receive  distributions of their interest
at the time of such termination or cessation,  the Plan Administrator may in its
sole discretion direct the Trustee to segregate each such Participant's interest
to a savings account,  certificate of deposit,  or other suitable investment for
distribution at the appropriate future time.

     Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the Trustee shall not be required to make
any  distribution  from the Trust in the event the Plan is terminated until such
time as the Internal  Revenue Service shall have determined in writing that such
termination will not adversely affect the prior qualification of the Plan.

     In  the  event  of a  termination  or  partial  termination  of  this  Plan
instituted  either by the Company or the  Internal  Revenue  Service,  or in the
event of a complete  discontinuance of contributions  under this Plan, the right
of  each  affected   Participant  to  benefits  accrued  to  the  date  of  such
termination, to the extent then funded, shall be nonforfeitable.  In the case of
a partial  termination,  this  provision  shall apply only to the portion of the
Plan terminated and only to Participants affected by such partial termination.

                                     XII-1

                                  ARTICLE XIII
                                  Miscellaneous

     13.1 Participants'  Rights;  Acquittance:  Except to the extent required or
provided for by a mandatory law as in effect and applicable  hereto from time to
time,   neither  the  establishment  of  the  Trust  hereby  created,   nor  any
modification  thereof,  nor the creation of any fund or account, nor the payment
of any  distributions,  shall be construed as giving to any Participant or other
person any legal or  equitable  right  against the  Employer,  or any officer or
employee  thereof,  or the  Trustee or the Plan  Administrator  except as herein
provided;  nor shall any Participant have any legal right,  title or interest in
this  Trust or any of its  assets,  except in the event and to the  extent  that
amounts may actually be distributable to him hereunder, and the same limitations
shall be  applicable  with  respect to  distributions  upon  death  which may be
payable to the Beneficiaries of a Participant.  Under no circumstances shall the
terms of  employment  of any  Participant  be  modified  or in any way  affected
hereby.  This Plan and Trust shall not  constitute a contract of employment  nor
afford any individual any right to be retained in the employ of the Employer.

     13.2 Nonalienation of Benefits:

     (a) In  General:  Except as  provided  in  subsection  (b) below,  benefits
payable  under this Plan  shall not be  subject  in any manner to  anticipation,
alienation,   sale,   transfer,   assignment,   pledge,   encumbrance,   charge,
garnishment,  execution,  or levy of any kind,  either voluntary or involuntary,
and any  attempt  to  anticipate,  alienate,  sell,  transfer,  assign,  pledge,
encumber,  charge  or  otherwise  dispose  of  any  right  to  benefits  payable
hereunder,  shall be void. The Trust Fund shall not in any manner be liable for,
or subject to, the debts,  contracts,  liabilities,  engagements or torts of any
person entitled to benefits hereunder.

     (b) Qualified Domestic Relations Orders: To the extent mandated by law, the
Plan  Administrator  shall comply with a qualified  domestic relations order, as
defined  by Code  section  414(p)(1)(A),  which  requires  that all or part of a
Participant's  interest in the Plan be paid to an  alternate  payee,  i.e.,  the
spouse, former spouse, child or other dependent of such Participant. If the Plan
Administrator  receives  an order  which  purports  to be a  qualified  domestic
relations order, the Plan Administrator shall in accordance with such procedures
and  rules as it may  establish:  (i)  determine  the  qualified  status of such
qualified  domestic  relations order under Code section  414(p)(6),  and (ii) if
satisfied that the qualified  domestic relations order meets the requirements of
Code section  414(p),  direct the Trustee to comply with the qualified  domestic
relations order and pay amounts from the Trust Fund in accordance  therewith.  A
qualified  domestic  relations  order  may  not  require  the  Plan  to  make  a
distribution to an alternate payee prior to the date the Participant  terminates
employment or, if earlier, the date the Participant attains age 50. However, the
Plan  may make a  distribution  to an  alternate  payee  prior  to such  date in
accordance with permissive terms of a qualified domestic relations order. Except
as otherwise  expressly  provided in a qualified  domestic  relations  order, no
consent by a  Participant  or alternate  payee shall be required in applying the
provisions  of Section 6.6 to an  alternate  payee's  interest in the Plan.  For
purposes of the investment  options under Article V and the determination of the
amount of a distribution  under Article VI, an alternate payee,  with respect to
his interest in the Plan,  shall be treated as a Participant  would with respect
to his Account.

Neither the Plan,  the Company,  the Employer,  the Plan  Administrator  nor the
Trustee shall be liable in any manner to any person,  including any  Participant
or Beneficiary, for complying with a domestic relations order that is considered
a qualified  domestic  relations order in accordance with the provisions of Code
section 414(p).

     13.3 Actions Involving the Trust: In any action or proceeding involving the
Trust  Fund,  or  any  property   constituting  part  or  all  thereof,  or  the
administration  thereof, the Company, the Employer, the Plan Administrator,  and
the  Trustee  shall be the only  necessary  parties and no  employees  or former
employees of the Employer or their  Beneficiaries  or any other person having or
claiming  to have an  interest  in the  Trust  Fund or under  the Plan  shall be
entitled to any notice or service of process.  

                                     XIII-1

Any final  judgment  which is not appealed or appealable  that may be entered in
any such action or  proceeding  shall be binding and  conclusive  on the parties
hereto, the Plan  Administrator,  the Trustee and all persons having or claiming
to have any interest in the Trust Fund or under the Plan.

     13.4 [Reserved]

     13.5  Successor to the Company:  In the event of the  dissolution,  merger,
consolidation or reorganization  of the Company,  provision may be made by which
the Plan and Trust will be continued by the successor;  and, in that event, such
successor shall be substituted for the Company under the Plan. The  substitution
of the successor  shall  constitute an  assumption  of Plan  liabilities  by the
successor   and  the   successor   shall  have  all  the   powers,   duties  and
responsibilities of the Company under the Plan.

     13.6 Transfer of Plan Assets:  In the event of any merger or  consolidation
of the Plan with, or transfer in whole or in part of the assets and  liabilities
of the Trust Fund to another  trust fund,  held under any other plan of deferred
compensation  maintained or to be established  for the benefit of all or some of
the  Participants  of this Plan, the assets of the Trust Fund applicable to such
Participants shall be transferred to the other trust fund only if:

     (a) Each  Participant  would,  if either  this Plan or the other  plan then
terminated,  receive a benefit  immediately  after the merger,  consolidation or
transfer  which is equal to or  greater  than the  benefit  he would  have  been
entitled to receive immediately before the merger, consolidation or transfer, if
the Plan had then terminated;

     (b)  Resolutions  of the Board of Directors of the Employer of the affected
Participants,  shall authorize such transfer of assets;  and, in the case of the
new or successor  employer of the affected  Participants,  its resolutions shall
include  an  assumption  of  liabilities  with  respect  to  such  Participant's
inclusion in the new employer's plan, and

     (c) Such  other  plan and trust are  qualified  under  sections  401(a) and
501(a) of the Code.

     13.7  Indemnification:  Unless the Board of Directors of the Company  shall
determine otherwise,  the Company shall indemnify,  to the full extent permitted
by law, any employee  acting in good faith within the scope of his employment in
carrying out the administration of the Plan.

     13.8  Action by the  Company:  Any  action by the  Company,  including  any
amendment  authorized to be made under Article XI, shall be made by a resolution
adopted by the Company's Board of Directors.  In addition, any person or persons
authorized  by the Board may take  action  on  behalf of the  Company.  Any such
resolution of the Board of Directors  shall be effective  provided it is adopted
in accordance with the bylaws (or other governing authority) of the Company. Any
action  taken by any other person or persons  shall be effective  provided it is
executed in accordance with the authorization of the Board.

     13.9  Applicable  Law: The  provisions  of the Plan shall be construed  and
administered  according  to,  and  its  validity  and  enforceability  shall  be
determined  under,  ERISA.  In the event ERISA does not  preempt  state law in a
particular circumstance, the laws of the State of New York shall govern.

     13.10  Interpreting  the Plan: This Plan shall be interpreted in accordance
with the rules of this section and Section 2.2.

                                     XIII-2

     (a) Compounds of the Word "Here": The words "hereof", "hereunder" and other
similar  compounds  of the word "here"  shall mean and refer to the entire Plan,
not to any particular provision or section.

     (b)  Examples:  Whenever  an example is  provided or the text uses the term
"including"  followed by a specific item or items,  or there is a passage having
similar  effect,  such  passages of the Plan shall be construed as if the phrase
"without limitation" followed such example or term (or otherwise applied to such
passage in a manner that avoids limits on its breadth of application).

     (c)  Fiduciary   Discretion:   With  respect  to  the  powers,  duties  and
responsibilities  allocated to the named  Fiduciaries  under the Plan,  the Plan
Administrator  and the  Trustee  shall  have  full  discretionary  authority  to
implement  and  perform  such  powers,  duties  and  responsibilities.  Specific
references in the Plan to the Plan  Administrator's or the Trustee's  discretion
in a particular context shall create no inference that the Plan  Administrator's
or Trustee's  discretion in any other respect,  or in connection  with any other
provisions, is less complete or broad.

     (d) Invalid  Provisions:  If any provision of this Plan is, or is hereafter
declared to be void, voidable,  invalid or otherwise unlawful,  the remainder of
the Plan shall not be affected thereby.

                                     XIII-3

                                   ARTICLE XIV
                            Top-Heavy Plan Provisions

     14.1  Application:  In the  event  that  the  Plan  is  determined  to be a
Top-Heavy Plan (as hereinafter defined), this Article XIV shall become effective
as of the first day of the Plan Year in which the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan.

     14.2 Definitions:

     (a) Key  Employee:  During any year that the Plan is a Top-Heavy  Plan,  an
Employee (including any Beneficiary of an Employee) is a Key Employee if, at any
time during the Plan Year or any of the 4 preceding Plan Years, he is (or was):

          (1)  An  officer  of  the  Employer  whose  Annual   Compensation  (as
     hereinafter  defined) exceeds 50 percent of the dollar limitation in effect
     for such year under Code section 415(b)(1)(A);

          (2) One of the 10 employees  having Annual  Compensation  of more than
     the  dollar   limitation  in  effect  for  such  year  under  Code  section
     415(c)(1)(A), having individual ownership interests in the Employer of more
     than 1/2 of 1 percent, and owning the largest interests in the Employer;

          (3) A 1 percent owner of the Employer having Annual  Compensation from
     the Employer of more than $150,000; or

          (4) A 5 percent owner of the Employer.  Ownership  shall be determined
     according to Code  section  416(i)(1)(B).  For  purposes of  paragraph  (1)
     above,  no more  than 50  Employees  (or if less,  the  greater  of 3 or 10
     percent of the  Employees)  shall be treated as  officers.  For purposes of
     paragraph (2) above, if 2 Employees have the same ownership  interest,  the
     Employee with the higher Annual Compensation shall be treated as having the
     larger  interest.  For  purposes  of  Paragraph  (1),  (2) and (3),  annual
     compensation means  compensation as defined in Code section 415(c)(3),  but
     including  amounts  contributed  by  the  Employer  pursuant  to  a  salary
     reduction  agreement which are excludable from the employee's  gross income
     under Code section 125 or 402(a)(8).

     (b) Minimum  Contribution  - For a Plan Year,  the lesser of 3 percent of a
Participant's  Annual  Compensation  or, if this Plan does not  enable a defined
benefit plan in the Required  Aggregation Group (as determined below) to satisfy
the  requirements  of  Code  section   401(a)(4)  or  410,  a  percentage  of  a
Participant's Annual Compensation equal to the percentage at which contributions
are made (or  required  to be made)  under the Plan and all  other  plans in the
Required Aggregation Group (as defined below) for the Key Employee for whom such
percentage is highest.

     (c) Top-Heavy  Plan: For any Plan Year beginning after December 31, 1983, a
plan that is required in such year to satisfy the  requirements  of Code section
416 because the  aggregate of the account  balances of all Key  Employees in the
Plan  exceeds  60  percent  of the  aggregate  of the  account  balances  of all
Participants in the Plan, such  determination  to be made in accordance with the
procedures described in Code section 416(g) and the regulations thereunder as of
the last day of the preceding  Plan Year (or in the case of the first Plan Year,
as of the last day of such Plan Year) (the  "determination  date"). For purposes
of determining whether the Plan is a Top-Heavy Plan, the Plan must be aggregated
with all  other  plans  maintained  by the  Employer  which are  required  to be
aggregated with the Plan in order for the Plan to meet the  requirements of Code
sections  401(a)(4)  or 410, and all other plans  maintained  by the Employer in
which a Key Employee is a Participant  (the "Required  Aggregation  Group").  In
addition, the Plan may also be aggregated with any other plans maintained by the
Employer so long as such aggregation would not prevent the aggregated 

                                     XIV-2

group from satisfying the  requirements  of Code sections  401(a)(4) or 410 (the
"Permissive Aggregation Group").

     14.3 Allocation of Minimum Contribution:  For any year in which the Plan is
a Top-Heavy Plan, the Minimum  Contribution as defined in Section 14.2(b) hereof
shall be made to the  account  of each  Participant  who is a non-Key  Employee,
unless the  Participant  accrues the defined  benefit  minimum  required by Code
section  416 for such  year  under a  defined  benefit  plan  maintained  by the
Employer. Such Minimum Contribution shall be made to the account of each non-Key
Employee  Participant  who is employed on the last day of such Plan Year without
regard  to such  Participant's  Hours of  Service  during  such Plan  Year.  The
Employer  and  the  Plan  Administrator  shall  determine  under  which  plan  a
Participant  shall  receive  the  Minimum  Contribution  if  the  Employee  is a
Participant in more than one plan maintained by the Employer.

     14.4  Vesting:  If for any  Plan  Year  the  Plan is a  Top-Heavy  Plan,  a
Participant's  vested  interest in the Plan for such Plan Year and all preceding
Plan Years  shall not be less than as  determined  under the  following  vesting
schedule:

         Years of          Vested           Forfeited
         Service           Percentage       Percentage
         -----------       ------------     ----------- 
         Less than 2         0%     100%
          2                          20%     80%
          3                          40%     60%
          4                          60%     40%
          5 or more                 100%      0%

If the Plan ceases to be a Top-Heavy Plan, the vesting  schedule in this Section
14.4 shall not apply, provided that any portion of the Participant's interest in
the Plan that was  nonforfeitable  before the Plan ceases to be a Top-Heavy Plan
shall remain nonforfeitable, and further provided that any Participant who has 3
or more  Years of  Service at the time the Plan  ceases to be a  Top-Heavy  Plan
shall  have the  right to elect  during  the  Election  Period  (as  hereinafter
defined) to continue to have his vested  interest  determined in accordance with
the vesting schedule contained in this Section 14.4.

For the purposes of this Section 14.4,  Years of Service  shall include  service
prior to the  Effective  Date,  and shall  include  service  during the Election
Period.  The Election  Period shall be the period during which such  Participant
may make such  vesting  schedule  election  and  shall  begin on the date of the
adoption of the amendment  which  changes the vesting  schedule and shall end on
the latest of:

     (a) The date which is 60 days after the  adoption  of the  amendment  which
changes the vesting schedule;

     (b) The date which is 60 days  after the  effective  date of the  amendment
which changes the vesting schedule; or

     (c) The date which is 60 days after the date such  Participant  is notified
in writing of the amendment which changes the vesting schedule.

                                     XIV-2

                                   ARTICLE XV
                                    Signature

The above Plan is hereby adopted and approved,  to be effective as of October 7,
1997 (except as otherwise indicated), this 6th day of October, 1997.


                              Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.



                              By:  /s/ Michael Theilmann
                                   ----------------------------











                                      XV-1

                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                     TRICON
                            LONG TERM SAVINGS PROGRAM


Designated Employers for Restaurant Employees
- ---------------------------------------------


Part 1:

          Pizza Hut, Inc. and its domestic locations and subsidiaries,
            Except for locations  formerly owned by the Herb Blankenship  
            Franchise;  Middleton  Enterprises,  Inc. and its subsidiaries;  and
            Employees who work for Pizza Hut of Cincinnati); and
            Including Delops, Inc. (eff. 3/1/96); D'Angelos Sandwich Shops, Inc.
            (eff.  3/1/96); and Progressive Food, Inc. (eff. 3/1/96)
          Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation (and its domestic
          locations  and  subsidiaries   except  for  locations
          formerly owned by the Fitzpatrick Franchise)
 KFC Corporation
 KFC Enterprises, Inc.
 KFC National Management Company
 Kentucky Fried Chicken of California, Inc.
 Kentucky Fried Chicken of Southern California, Inc.
 Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporate Holdings, Ltd.
 NKFC, Inc.
 QSR, Inc.
 Taco Bell Corp. (and its domestic subsidiaries)
 Taco Bell Enterprises, Inc.
 Calny, Inc.
 Taco Bell of California, Inc.
 Taco Del Sur, Inc.
 Tenga Taco, Inc.


                                      1-1


                                    APPENDIX

The  following  Appendix  Articles  modify  particular  terms  of the Plan as it
applies to certain  Employee  groups.  Except as  specifically  modified in this
Appendix,  the foregoing  provisions of the Plan shall fully apply. In the event
of a conflict  between this Appendix and the  foregoing  provisions of the Plan,
the Appendix shall govern with respect to the conflict.




                                    Article A
                                  KFC - Collins

     The terms of this  Article  apply to  certain  Plan  Participants  who were
employees of Collins Foods International,  Inc. and who were Participants in the
Collins Food  International,  Inc.  Employee Savings Plan on March 17, 1991. The
effective  date of this  amendment  is March 17, 1991,  the date  Collins  Foods
International,  Inc. was merged into Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation.  As of
the merger,  Participants  were entitled to make investment  directions into the
Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation Long Term Savings Program.  If no investment
election was received, the Participant's account was transferred to the Security
Plus Fund. The Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation Long Term Savings Program was
merged into the Tricon Long Term Savings Program effective December 31, 1991.

     A.1 Definitions:  The following words and phrases as used herein,  have the
respective  meanings  set forth in this  Article,  unless  the  context  clearly
indicates to the contrary.

     (a) Collins: Collins Food International, Inc.

     (b) Savings Plan: Collins Food International, Inc. Employee Savings Plan.

     (c) Closing Date: March 17, 1991.

     (d) Account  Balance:  The amount in the account of each Participant in the
Savings Plan as of the Closing Date.

     (e)  Voluntary  Contribution:  The amount  voluntarily  contributed  to the
Savings Plan by a Participant prior to January 1, 1987.

     (f) Voluntary  Contribution  Account: The account of a Participant to which
his Voluntary Contributions and the gains and losses thereon are credited.

     A.2  Participants  Covered  by  this  Appendix:  As of  the  Closing  Date,
Employees of Collins who participated in the Savings Plan became Participants in
the  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken  Corporation  Long  Term  Savings  Program  if the
Participant  had an Account  Balance in the Savings Plan as of the Closing Date.
In addition, individuals described in the preceding sentence became Participants
in this Plan as of  December  31,  1991 if they had an  account  balance  in the
Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation Long Term Savings Program as of December 31,
1991.  Each  Participant in the Savings Plan as of the Closing Date became fully
vested in his Account Balance.

     A.3 Voluntary  Contributions:  A Participant may make  withdrawals from his
Voluntary  Contribution  Account  from  time  to  time,  subject  to  reasonable
procedures as the Plan  Administrator  may  establish.  Withdrawals of Voluntary
Contributions  shall  consist  only  of the  principal  amount  credited  to the
Participant's Voluntary Contribution Account.

     A.4 Plan Loans:  Effective as of the Closing  Date, no new plan loans shall
be available  under the Kentucky  Fried  Chicken  Corporation  Long Term Savings
Program and this Plan and no  existing  loans may be renewed or  extended.  Plan
loans that were made  under the  Savings  Plan,  and are  outstanding  as of the
Closing Date,  are expressly  authorized as a permissible  investment  under the
Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation  Long Term Savings  Program and this Plan in
accordance with (and subject to) the following  provisions of this section.  

     (a)  The  program  of  Plan  loans  authorized  by this  section  shall  be
administered by the Plan Administrator (or its delegate).

                                      A-1

     (b) Plan loans shall bear a reasonable  rate of interest,  the amount to be
determined  from time to time in  accordance  with the rules and  procedures  in
effect under the Savings Plan on the Closing Date. The term of any loan shall be
that in effect for the loan on the Closing Date.

     (c) A loan  shall  continue  to be  repaid  in the  manner in effect on the
Closing  Date,  provided  that interest and principal on the loan must be repaid
through payroll deduction installments (not less frequently than quarterly) over
a total period not to exceed 4-1/2 years  (including  renewals and  extensions).
Loan repayments shall be invested in accordance with the  Participant's  current
investment direction for Salary Deferral  Contributions.  If no such election is
in effect,  repayments  shall be  invested in the manner  specified  by the Plan
Administrator from time to time.

     (d) A loan shall be  documented by such notes,  evidences of  indebtedness,
security  agreements and other  instruments  executed by the  Participant as the
Plan Administrator may require.

     (e) A loan shall  constitute an investment of only amounts  credited to the
Account of the  borrowing  Participant.  All gains and losses on a loan shall be
credited to the borrowing Participant's Account.

     (f) A loan shall be adequately  secured at all times. All loans are secured
by a portion of a borrowing  Participant's Account (but not more than the lesser
of: (1) 50 percent of the Account, or (2) the amount of the loan). To the extent
the principal amount of the loan (immediately  after its origination,  extension
or  renewal)  does not exceed 50 percent  of the  Participant's  Account at such
time,  the loan will be deemed to be adequately  secured.  Any  additional  loan
amount  must at all times be secured by other  security of a type and value that
would be accepted by commercial lenders for such purpose.

     (g) A loan shall be in default if the Participant fails to make any payment
when due or if there occurs such other circumstances as may be prescribed by the
Plan  Administrator.  If a loan  is in  default,  execution  on  the  defaulting
Participant's  Account shall be accomplished  when and to the extent the Account
is distributed to the Participant hereunder.  Execution on any other security of
the Participant  shall be accomplished at the time deemed  necessary by the Plan
Administrator to prevent a loss to the Plan.

     (h) If a  Participant  has a Termination  of  Employment or dies,  any loan
outstanding to the Participant shall become immediately due. If the portion of a
Participant's  Account  securing  his  loan  otherwise  becomes  payable  to the
Participant hereunder,  such loan shall become due to the extent this portion of
the Account is to be distributed. In either case, the amount of the loan that is
due shall be satisfied by applying  against it the portion of the  Participant's
Account that secures the loan. In turn,  such Account  shall be  correspondingly
reduced prior to making the distribution to or on behalf of the Participant.

                                      A-2

                                    ARTICLE B
                              KFC Hourly Employees

     The terms of this Article apply to any Employee who is employed on or after
December 1, 1989 on an hourly basis by KFC Corporation;  KFC Enterprises,  Inc.;
KFC National Management Company;  Kentucky Fried Chicken International Holdings,
Inc.;  Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporate  Holdings,  Ltd.; Kentucky Fried Chicken
Corporation or the Company (only with respect to those  Employees of the Company
who are (i) providing services in Illinois to Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation
and (ii) working under the  supervision of Kentucky  Fried Chicken  Corporation)
(collectively referred to as "KFC").

     B.1   Modifications  to  Article  III:  To  determine  the  eligibility  to
participate in the Plan of an Employee  covered by this Article,  Section 3.1(a)
shall be modified to read as follows:

     "(a) General  Rule:  An hourly  Employee of KFC who is employed on or after
December 1, 1989 shall be eligible to  participate in the Plan on and after such
date as follows:

          "(1)  Effective  for periods  before  July 1, 1995,  if he is either a
     full-time  hourly  Employee of KFC whose  Employment  Commencement  Date is
     before 1992 or a full-time  hourly  Employee of KFC who is coded as a shift
     supervisor and whose Employment Commencement Date is after 1991, or

          "(2) Effective  beginning July 1, 1995, if he is an hourly Employee of
     KFC. Any such hourly Employee of KFC shall be considered to be described in
     Section 3.1(c) and,  therefore,  shall be subject to the age 21 and year of
     eligibility  service  requirements  in Sections  3.2 and 3.3." In addition,
     Section 3.2(a)(2) shall read as follows with respect to individuals who are
     eligible Employees pursuant to this Article B:

          "(2) The  following  rules shall apply  notwithstanding  paragraph (1)
     above.

          "(i) For purposes of Employees  eligible  under Section  B.1(a) of the
     Appendix,  the  election  of a  full-time  hourly  Employee  of  KFC  whose
     Employment Commencement Date is before 1992 shall not be effective until he
     has  enrolled in his  Employer's  One Plus  program,  and the election of a
     full-time  hourly  Employee  who is coded as a shift  supervisor  and whose
     Employment  Commencement Date is after 1991 shall not be effective until he
     has attained age 21 and completed one Year of Service.

          "(ii) The  election of an Employee  eligible  under  Appendix  Section
     B.1(b)  shall  not be  effective  before  the  first  January  1 or  July 1
     following his attainment of age 21 and his completion of a 12-month  period
     (measured as described  below) in which he is credited  with at least 1,000
     Hours  of  Service  (referred  to as a year of  eligibility  service).  The
     12-month  period between the date the Employee first  completes one Hour of
     Service  and the  first  anniversary  thereof  shall be used  initially  to
     determine his  eligibility  to  participate  in the Plan;  thereafter,  his
     eligibility  to participate in the Plan shall be determined by reference to
     whether  he  completes  1,000 or more  Hours of  Service  in any Plan Year,
     beginning with the first Plan Year commencing  after he first completes one
     Hour of Service.  An employee who completes  1,000 or more Hours of Service
     in both the initial 12-month  eligibility  computation period and the first
     Plan Year commencing  after he first completes one Hour of Service shall be
     credited  with two  years  of  eligibility  service  for  purposes  of this
     section.  Effective as soon as  practicable  after  September 30, 1995, the
     term payroll date shall replace  January 1 or July 1 in the first  sentence
     of this  subparagraph."  

     B.2  Modifications to Section 4.1: For purposes of determining the deferral
amount in the case of an Active  Participant  who is  covered  by this  Article,
subsections (a), (d) and (e) of Section 4.1 shall read as follows:

                                      B-1

     "(a)  Deferral  Amount:  Subject  to the  limitations  established  by this
Article IV, each active  Participant may defer in any Plan Year up to $60 of his
Eligible Pay per pay period,  in accordance  with such rules and  regulations as
may be  established by the Plan  Administrator.  In the event that a Participant
elects  to defer a portion  of his  Eligible  Pay  under  the  Plan,  it will be
designated  for  contribution  by the  Employer  to the  Trust on  behalf of the
Participant,  and for  deposit  in his  Salary  Deferral  Account.  All  amounts
deposited to a Participant's Salary Deferral Account shall at all times be fully
vested."

     "(d) Election  Procedures:  An election made pursuant to subsection  (b) or
(c)  above  shall be in the  manner  specified  by the Plan  Administrator.  Any
election  shall  specify the amount of the  deferral  desired as a whole  dollar
amount,   subject  to  the  limitation  in  subsection   (a)  above.   The  Plan
Administrator,  in its  discretion,  may give no effect to an election that does
not  meet  minimum   standards  for   completeness  and  accuracy  as  the  Plan
Administrator may establish."

     "(e) Payroll  Deductions:  A Participant's  Salary  Deferral  Contributions
shall be withheld from his Eligible Pay through  automatic  payroll  deductions.
Salary Deferral  Contributions may not be withheld after they have been actually
or constructively received by the Participant."

                                      B-2

                                    ARTICLE C
                               Pizza Hut Employees

     The terms of this Article  apply to any Employee who is: (a) employed on an
hourly  basis by Pizza  Hut,  Inc.  or its  domestic  restaurant  locations  and
restaurant  subsidiaries  (collectively  referred  to as  "Pizza  Hut"),  or (b)
employed by Delops,  Inc.,  D'Angelos  Sandwich Shops, Inc. or Progressive Food,
Inc. (restaurant subsidiaries of Pizza Hut which are collectively referred to as
"D'Angelos").  Such  Employees are eligible to  participate in this Plan only as
provided in this Article C.

     C.1 Modifications to Section 3.1(a), Pre-1996: Effective for periods before
January 1, 1996, to determine the  eligibility  to participate in the Plan of an
Employee  covered by this Article,  Section  3.1(a) shall be modified to read as
follows:

     "(a) General Rule: Effective for periods before January 1, 1996, any hourly
Employee of Pizza Hut (other than a D'Angelos employee) who is either:

          "(1)  Currently  eligible to enroll in his  Employer's  Benefits  Plus
     program, or

          "(2) Effective January 1, 1993 through December 31, 1995,  employed in
     any  of  the  following  states:  Alabama,   Alaska,   Arizona,   Arkansas,
     California,  Colorado,  District  of  Columbia,  Florida,  Georgia,  Idaho,
     Kansas, Kentucky,  Louisiana,  Maryland,  Mississippi,  Montana,  Nebraska,
     Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, North Dakota,  Oklahoma,  Oregon, South
     Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia,  Washington, West
     Virginia or Wyoming,  shall be eligible to participate in the Plan while he
     is a participant in the Pizza Hut Hourly  Employees  Retirement Plan, i.e.,
     not before he attains age 21 and completes 1,000 hours of service."

     C.2  Modifications  to  Section  3.1(a) for  Hourly  Employees,  Post-1995:
Effective  on and after  January  1,  1996,  to  determine  the  eligibility  to
participate in the Plan of hourly  Employees of Pizza Hut  (including  D'Angelos
for  periods  prior to its sale),  Section  3.1(a)  shall be modified to read as
follows:

     "(a)  General  Rule:  Effective  on and after  January 1, 1996,  any hourly
Employee  of Pizza  Hut shall be  eligible  to  participate  in the Plan only as
follows:

          "(1) Any such  Employee  who is  currently  eligible  to enroll in his
     Employer's  Benefits Plus program shall be eligible to  participate  in the
     Plan;

          "(2) Any such Employee:

               "(i) Who is an  hourly  Employee  of Pizza Hut as of  January  1,
          1996, and

               "(ii) Who has an Account balance in the Plan on such date,  shall
          be eligible to  participate in the Plan, but only through the date his
          employment  with  Pizza Hut first  terminates  on or after  January 1,
          1996.

          "(3) Effective March 1, 1996, any such Employee:

               "(i) Who is employed by D'Angelos on March 1, 1996, and

                                      C-1

               "(ii) Who has an account  balance in the D'Angelos,  Inc.  Profit
          Sharing/401(k)  Plan ("D Plan") on such  date,  shall be  eligible  to
          participate in the Plan, but only through the date his employment with
          Pizza Hut first terminates on or after March 1, 1996."

     C.3  Modifications  to Section  3.1(a) for  D'Angelos  Salaried  Employees:
Effective  March 1, 1996,  salaried  Employees of D'Angelos shall be eligible to
participate  in the Plan on the same  terms and  conditions  as other  Pizza Hut
salaried  employees  (for  periods  prior to the  sale of  D'Andelos).  Thus,  a
D'Angelos salaried Employee shall be eligible for SaveUp to the same extent that
he would be if  D'Angelos  were a  participating  employer in Pizza Hut Benefits
Plus.

     C.4 Special Provisions Governing D'Angelos  Employees:  The D Plan shall be
merged into this Plan  effective as soon as  administratively  convenient  after
adoption of this provision ("Merger Date").

     (a) Initial  Accounts:  Effective as of the Merger Date,  each Employee who
has an account  balance under the D Plan ("D Plan Balance")  immediately  before
the merger:  (1) shall become fully vested in his D Plan Balance,  and (2) shall
have his  Salary  Deferral  Account  credited  with  the  amount  realized  upon
liquidation  of the portion of his D Plan  Balance  not  invested as an Employee
loan  ("liquidation  amount"),  as well as the value of any loan to the Employee
that is outstanding on the Merger Date. If prior to the Merger Date the Employee
directs the Plan  Administrator  how to invest the  liquidation  amount (and the
direction meets the Plan Administrator's  requirements),  then this amount shall
be invested in accordance  with the Employee's  direction as soon as practicable
after the merger. If no such investment direction is received,  then this amount
shall be invested in the  Security  Plus Fund as soon as  practicable  after the
merger. Thereafter, investment changes may be made in accordance with the Plan's
usual rules.

     (b)  Loans:  If an  Employee  has  a  loan  outstanding  from  the  D  Plan
immediately  prior to the merger,  such loan shall  thereafter be subject to the
provisions  of Article  VII that apply to already  outstanding  loans  except as
follows.

          (1) Section 7.3 shall not apply.

          (2) The  administration  fees  applicable  under Section 7.6 shall not
     exceed and shall not be charged more frequently than permissible  under the
     Employee's  pre-merger  loan  agreement and the related D Plan terms ("loan
     agreement").

          (3)  Notwithstanding  Section 7.7, the interest rate shall be based on
     the loan agreement.

          (4) Subject to Section 7.8(e), the term and repayment procedures shall
     be based on the loan  agreement.  Section  7.8(a),  (b) and (d)  shall  not
     apply.

          (5)  Notwithstanding  Section  7.9(a),  (b) and (c), a loan covered by
     this  subsection  shall be in default as of the earliest of the  following:
     (i) the time  applicable  under Section  7.9(d),  (ii) the date  applicable
     under the loan  agreement,  or (iii)  immediately  before a distribution is
     made to the Employee.

                                      C-2

                                    ARTICLE D
                              SPINOFF FROM PEPSICO

     This  Article  sets  forth  provisions  that apply in  connection  with the
Company's spinoff from PepsiCo, Inc.

     D.1 Definitions:  When used in this Article, the following underlined terms
shall have the meanings set forth  below.  Except as otherwise  provided in this
Article,  all terms  that are  defined  in Article II of the Plan shall have the
meaning assigned to them by Article II.

     (a) 1997 Agreement:  The 1997 Employee  Programs  Agreement between PepsiCo
and Tricon (dated as of August 26, 1997).

     (b) Distribution  Date: The "Distribution  Date" as that term is defined in
the 1997 Separation Agreement between PepsiCo and Tricon. 

     (c)  PepsiCo  Account  Holder:  A  Participant  who had an  interest in the
PepsiCo  Capital  Stock Account  under the Prior Plan  immediately  prior to the
Effective Date.

     (d)  Transferred  Individual:  A  "Transferred  Individual" as that term is
defined in the 1997 Agreement.

     (e)  Transition  Individuals:  A  "Transition  Individual"  as that term is
defined in the 1997 Agreement.

     D.2 Assumption of Benefits and  Liabilities.  Effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, all interests in the Prior Plan of (and Prior
Plan  liabilities with respect to) Transferred  Individuals  shall be assumed by
this Plan.

     (a) In the case of a Transferred Individual,  effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, his Account shall be credited with the amount
that stood to his credit under the Prior Plan immediately prior to the Effective
Date,  and the  allocation of this amount to investment  options under this Plan
shall mirror the allocation then in effect for the Transferred  Individual under
the Prior Plan.

     (b) Any  deferral  election  made  under the Prior  Plan for a  Transferred
Individual  shall be carried over and continued under this Plan. Any designation
to have some or all of a deferral  invested in the PepsiCo capital stock account
under the Prior Plan shall be converted to a  designation  for  investment  in a
investment option under this Plan (other than the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account)
which is designated by the Plan Administrator for this purpose.

     D.3  PepsiCo  Capital  Stock  Fund.  As of the  Effective  Date,  the  Plan
Administrator shall establish a temporary  investment option under the Plan, the
PepsiCo Capital Stock Fund.  Participant  shall have any rights as a shareholder
of PepsiCo  capital stock on account of an interest in the PepsiCo Capital Stock
Account that are comparable to those granted with respect to Tricon Common Stock
under the Tricon Common Stock Fund.

                                      D-1


     (a) Valuation and Loans: A  Participant's  interest in the PepsiCo  Capital
Stock Account is valued as of a Valuation Date in a manner comparable to how the
Tricon Common Stock Fund is valued. Loans are permitted from the PepsiCo Capital
Stock Fund to the same extent as they are permitted from the Tricon Common Stock
Fund.

     (b)  Investment  Reallocations.  A PepsiCo  Account  Holder may  reallocate
amounts  standing to his credit  under the PepsiCo  Capital  Stock Fund to other
investment  options  under  the Plan that are  available  for this  purpose.  No
Participant may reallocate amounts into the PepsiCo Capital Stock Fund.

     (c) Termination of the PepsiCo  Capital Stock Account.  Effective as of the
end  of  the  day on  December  31,  1998  (or  such  later  date  as  the  Plan
Administrator  shall specify),  the PepsiCo Capital Stock Fund shall cease to be
available under the Plan. Any amount under the Plan still standing to the credit
of a PepsiCo Account Holder on such date shall  automatically  be reallocated to
the  investment  option  designated  for this purpose by the Plan  Administrator
unless the Participant selects a different replacement option in accordance with
such requirements as the Plan Administrator may apply.

     D.4  Employment  Transfers by  Transition  Individuals.  This section shall
apply to individuals who transfer between Tricon and PepsiCo under circumstances
that cause them to be Transition Individuals.

     (a) If a  Participant,  who is a Transition  Individual,  is transferred to
PepsiCo,  such  transfer to PepsiCo  shall not be  considered a  termination  of
employment or other event that could trigger  distribution of the  Participant's
interest in the Plan. In this case, the Participant's  interest in the Plan (and
all Plan liabilities  with respect to the  Participant)  shall be transferred to
the PepsiCo Long Term Savings Plan.  This transfer  shall  constitute a complete
payout  of the  Participant's  Account  for  purposes  of  determining  who is a
Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.

     (b) If a Transition  Individual,  who is a participant  in the PepsiCo Long
Term Savings Plan, is transferred from PepsiCo to Tricon, this Plan shall accept
a transfer of such  Transition  Individual's  interest in the PepsiCo  Long Term
Savings Plan, and the amount transferred shall become the initial balance in the
Transition  Individual's  Account  hereunder.  To the extent that any investment
option available under the PepsiCo Executive Income Deferral Program is not also
available  under  this  Plan,  the Plan  Administrator  shall  adopt  rules  for
reallocating  the  transferred  amount to  investment  options  under this Plan.
Otherwise,  the allocation of this amount to investment  options under this Plan
shall mirror the allocation then in effect for the Transition  Individual  under
the PepsiCo Long Term Savings Plan.


                                      D-2

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.13









                                     DRAFT


                                     TRICON

                               RESTAURANT DEFERRED

                                COMPENSATION PLAN









                          As Effective October 7, 1997




                                     TRICON
                      RESTAURANT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

                                


ARTICLE I:  INTRODUCTION AND ESTABLISHMENT.............................1


ARTICLE II:  DEFINITIONS...............................................2

         2.1  Account..................................................2
         2.2  Base Compensation........................................2
         2.3  Beneficiary..............................................2
         2.4  Bonus Compensation.......................................2
         2.5  Code.....................................................2
         2.6  Company..................................................2
         2.7  Deferral Subaccount......................................2
         2.8  Discount Stock Subaccount................................2
         2.9  Effective Date...........................................2
         2.10  Election Form...........................................3
         2.11  Employee................................................3
         2.12  Employer................................................3
         2.13  ERISA...................................................3
         2.14  Fair Market Value.......................................3
         2.15  Participant.............................................3
         2.16  Plan....................................................3
         2.17  Plan Administrator......................................3
         2.18  Plan Year...............................................3
         2.19  Prior Plan..............................................3
         2.20  Retirement..............................................3
         2.21  Risk of Forfeiture Account..............................4
         2.22  Termination of Employment...............................4
         2.23  Tricon..................................................4
         2.24  Valuation Date..........................................4

ARTICLE III:  PARTICIPATION............................................5

         3.1  Eligibility to Participate...............................5
         3.2  Deferral Election........................................5
         3.3  Period of Deferral.......................................6
         3.4  Beneficiary Designation..................................7

ARTICLE IV:  INTEREST OF PARTICIPANTS..................................8

         4.1  Accounting for Participants' Interests...................8
         4.2  Vesting of a Participant's Account.......................9
         4.3  Risk of Forfeiture Accounts..............................9
         4.4  Distribution of a Participant's Account.................11
         4.5  Acceleration of Payment During Employment...............12


                                      -i-

ARTICLE V:  PLAN ADMINISTRATOR........................................14

         5.1  Members.................................................14
         5.2  Action..................................................14
         5.3  Right and Duties........................................14
         5.4  Compensation, Indemnity and Liability...................15
         5.5  Taxes...................................................15

ARTICLE VI:  CLAIMS PROCEDURE.........................................16

         6.1  Claims for Benefits.....................................16
         6.2  Appeals.................................................16

ARTICLE VII:  AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION...............................17

         7.1  Amendments..............................................17
         7.2  Termination of Plan.....................................17

ARTICLE VIII:  MISCELLANEOUS..........................................18

         8.1  Limitation on Participant's Rights......................18
         8.2  Benefits Unfunded.......................................18
         8.3  Other Plans.............................................18
         8.4  Receipt or Release......................................18
         8.5  Governing Law...........................................18
         8.6  Adoption of Plan by Related Employers...................18
         8.7  Gender, Tense, and Headings.............................18
         8.8  Successors and Assigns; Nonalienation of Benefits.......19
         8.9  Facility of Payment.....................................19

APPENDIX

         Article A:  Spinoff From PepsiCo..............................1


                                      -ii-

                                    ARTICLE I

                                  INTRODUCTION

     Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc. (the "Company") has established the Tricon
Restaurant Deferred  Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to permit eligible employees
to defer base pay and incentive pay.

     Except as otherwise  provided,  this  document  sets forth the terms of the
Plan as in effect on October 7, 1997. As of that date, it specifies the group of
employees  of the  Company  and certain  affiliated  employers  eligible to make
deferrals,  the  procedures  for electing to defer  compensation  and the Plan's
provisions  for  maintaining  and paying out  amounts  that have been  deferred.
Additional  provisions  applicable  to  certain  employees  are set forth in the
Appendix, which modifies and supplements the general provisions of the Plan.

     The Plan is unfunded and unsecured.  Amounts deferred by an employee are an
obligation of that employee's individual employer. With respect to his employer,
the employee has the rights of a general creditor.





                                   ARTICLE II

                                   DEFINITIONS

     When used in this  Plan,  the  following  underlined  terms  shall have the
meanings set forth below unless a different  meaning is plainly  required by the
context:

     2.1 Account:  The account  maintained for a Participant on the books of his
Employer to determine,  from time to time, the Participant's  interest under the
Plan. The balance in such Account shall be determined by the Plan Administrator.
Each Participant's Account shall consist of at least one Deferral Subaccount for
each separate  deferral under Section 3.2. In accordance  with Section 4.3, some
or all of a separate  deferral may be held in a Risk of  Forfeiture  Subaccount.
The Plan  Administrator  may also  establish such  additional  subaccounts as it
deems necessary for the proper administration of the Plan. Where appropriate,  a
reference  to  a  Participant's  Account  shall  include  a  reference  to  each
applicable subaccount that has been established thereunder.

     2.2 Base  Compensation:  An eligible  Employee's  adjusted base salary,  as
determined  by the Plan  Administrator,  and to the extent paid in U.S.  dollars
from an Employer's U.S. payroll.  For any applicable payroll period, an eligible
Employee's adjusted base salary, as determined by the Plan Administrator, and to
the  extent  paid in U.S.  dollars  from an  Employer's  U.S.  payroll.  For any
applicable payroll period, an eligible  Employee's adjusted base salary shall be
determined after reductions for applicable tax withholdings, Employee authorized
deductions  (including  deductions  for  SaveUp,  Benefits  Plus and  charitable
donations),  tax  levies,  garnishments  and  such  other  amounts  as the  Plan
Administrator  recognizes  as reducing the amount of base salary  available  for
deferral.

     2.3  Beneficiary:   The  person  or  persons  who  a  Participant  properly
designates,  as determined by the Plan Administrator,  to receive the amounts in
one or more of the  Participant's  subaccounts in the event of the Participant's
death.

     2.4 Bonus  Compensation:  An eligible  Employee's adjusted annual incentive
award under his Employer's  annual incentive plan, as determined and adjusted by
the  Plan  Administrator,  and to the  extent  paid  in  U.S.  dollars  from  an
Employer's U.S. payroll. An eligible Employee's annual incentive awards shall be
adjusted to reduce them for applicable  tax  withholdings,  Employee  authorized
deductions  (including  deductions  for  SaveUp,  Benefits  Plus and  charitable
donations),  tax  levies,  garnishments  and  such  other  amounts  as the  Plan
Administrator  recognizes  as reducing the amount of such awards  available  for
deferral.

     2.5 Code: The Internal Revenue Code, as amended.

     2.6 Company: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., a North Carolina corporation,
or its successor or successors.

     2.7 Deferral Subaccount: A subaccount of a Participant's Account maintained
to reflect  his  interest  in the Plan  attributable  to each  deferral  of Base
Compensation  and Bonus  Compensation,  and earnings or losses  credited to such
subaccount in accordance with Section 4.1(b).

     2.8 Discount Stock Subaccount: A Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount that permits
an eligible  Employee  to defer  Bonus  Compensation  for  investment  solely in
discounted phantom Tricon Common Stock, in accordance with Section 4.3.

     2.9 Effective Date: October 7, 1997..9 Effective Date



     2.10 Election Form: The form prescribed by the Plan  Administrator on which
a  Participant   specifies  the  amount  of  his  Base   Compensation  or  Bonus
Compensation to be deferred pursuant to the provisions of Article III.

     2.11 Employee:  Any person in a salaried  classification of an Employer who
(i) is receiving  remuneration for personal  services rendered in the employment
of the  Employer,  (ii) is either a United  States  citizen or a resident  alien
lawfully  admitted for permanent  residence in the United  States,  and (iii) is
paid in U.S. dollars from the Employer's U.S. payroll.

     2.12  Employer:  The Company  and each of the  Company's  subsidiaries  and
affiliates   that  is   currently   designated   as  an  Employer  by  the  Plan
Administrator.

     2.13  ERISA:  The  Employee  Retirement  Income  Security  Act of 1974,  as
amended.

     2.14  Fair  Market  Value:  For  purposes  of  converting  a  Participant's
deferrals to Tricon Common Stock as of any date, the Fair Market Value of Tricon
Common Stock is determined as the average of the high and low price on such date
for Tricon Common Stock as reported on the composite tape for securities  listed
on the New York Stock  Exchange,  Inc.,  rounded  to four  decimal  places.  For
purposes of determining  the value of a Plan  distribution  or for  reallocating
amounts between phantom investment options under the Plan, the Fair Market Value
of Tricon  Common Stock or PepsiCo  Capital  Stock is  determined as the closing
price  on  the  applicable   Valuation  Date  (identified   based  on  the  Plan
Administrator's  current  procedures) for PepsiCo or Tricon stock,  whichever is
applicable,  as reported on the composite tape for securities  listed on the New
York Stock Exchange, Inc., rounded to four decimal places.

     2.15  Participant:  Any Employee  eligible  pursuant to Section 3.1 who has
satisfied  the  requirements  for  participation  in  this  Plan  and who has an
Account. A Participant  includes any individual who deferred  compensation under
the Prior Plan and for whom any  Employer  maintains on its books an Account for
such deferred  compensation as of the Effective  Date. An active  Participant is
one who is currently deferring under Section 3.2.

     2.16 Plan: The Tricon Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation Plan, as it may be
amended from time to time.

     2.17  Plan  Administrator:  The  Compensation  Committee  of the  Board  of
Directors of the Company, or its delegate or delegates.

     2.18 Plan Year: The 12-month period from January 1 to December 31, provided
that the  initial  plan  year  shall be a short  plan  year  that  begins on the
Effective Date and ends on December 31 of the same year.

     2.19 Prior Plan: The PepsiCo Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation Plan, as in
effect for periods before the Effective Date.

     2.20 Retirement: Termination of service with the Company and its affiliates
after attaining  eligibility for retirement.  A Participant  attains eligibility
for retirement when he attains at least age 55 with 10 or more years of service,
at least age 65 with 5 or more  years of  service,  or at least age 70 with 3 or
more years 



of service (whichever occurs earliest) while in the employment of the Company or
its  affiliates.  A Participant's  service is determined  under the terms of the
Tricon Salaried Employees Retirement Plan.

     2.21 Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount:  The subaccount provided for by Section
4.3 to  contain  the  portion  of each  separate  deferral  that is  subject  to
forfeiture.

     2.22  Termination of Employement:  A Participant's  cessation of employment
with  the  Company,  all  Employers  and  all  other  Company  subsidiaries  and
affiliates (as defined for this purpose by the Plan Administrator). For purposes
of determining  forfeitures  under Section 4.3 and  distributing a Participant's
Account under Section 4.4, the following shall apply:

     (a) A  Termination  of  Employment  shall not occur when a business unit or
division  of the  Company  that  employs a  Participant  is sold,  provided  the
Participant  and  substantially  all  employees of the former  business  unit or
division remain employed by the purchaser or by its successor.  Additionally,  a
Termination of Employment  shall not occur when a subsidiary of the Company that
employs a Participant is sold, provided: (i) the Participant remains employed by
the purchaser or by its successor,  and (ii) the  Participant's  interest in the
Plan is carried as a  liability  by the  purchaser  or its  successor  through a
successor arrangement.  In each case, a Participant's  Termination of Employment
shall occur upon the Participant's  post-sale  cessation of employment from such
purchaser or its successor  (and their related  organizations,  as determined by
the Plan Administrator).

     (b) With  respect to any  individual  deferral,  the term  "Termination  of
Employment"  may  encompass  a  Participant's  death;  however,   death  may  be
considered a separate  event,  depending  upon the  convention  used by the Plan
Administrator with respect to such deferral.

     2.23 Tricon: Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.

     2.24 Valuation Date: Each date as of which Participant  Accounts are valued
in accordance  with procedures of the Plan  Administrator  that are currently in
effect.  As of the Effective  Date,  the Valuation  Dates are March 31, June 30,
September  30 and  December  31.  Values  are  determined  as of the  close of a
Valuation  Date or, if such date is not a business  day,  as of the close of the
immediately preceding business day.


                                   ARTICLE III

                                  PARTICIPATION

     3.1 Eligibility to Participate

     (a)  Eligibility  Requirements.  An  Employee  shall be  eligible  to defer
compensation  under  the Plan  while he is  classified  as a highly  compensated
employee  within  the  meaning  of  Code  Section  414(q),  provided  he is  not
classified as being in executive status. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence,
from time to time the Plan  Administrator may modify,  limit or expand the class
of Employees  eligible to defer hereunder,  pursuant to criteria for eligibility
that need not be uniform among all or any group of Employees.  During the period
an individual satisfies all of the eligibility  requirements of this section, he
shall be referred to as an eligible Employee.

     (b)  Cessation of  Eligibility.  An  individual's  eligibility  to actively
participate in the Plan shall cease upon the earlier of:

          (1) The date he ceases to be an Employee;

          (2) The  date  he is no  longer  classified  as a  highly  compensated
     employee within the meaning of Code Section 414(q);

          (3) The date he becomes classified as in executive status; or

          (4) The  date  the  Employee  ceases  to be  eligible  under  criteria
     described in the second last sentence of subsection (a) above.

     (c) Active  Participation.  An  eligible  Employee  shall  become an active
Participant  on the date an  amount  is  first  withheld  from his  compensation
pursuant to an Election Form submitted by the Employee to the Plan Administrator
under Section 3.2.

     (d)  Cessation  of  Participation.  An  individual,  who has been an active
Participant  under the Plan,  ceases to be a Participant on the date his Account
is fully paid out.

     3.2 Deferral  Election.  For each Plan Year, an eligible Employee may elect
to defer any whole percentage of his Base Compensation or Bonus Compensation, up
to the maximum annual deferral amount established by the Plan Administrator,  by
filing an Election Form with the Plan  Administrator.  An eligible Employee must
specify on his Election  Form each category of  compensation  he seeks to defer.
Any amount of Base Compensation deferred by an eligible Employee for a Plan Year
will be  deducted  each pay  period  during  the Plan Year for which he has Base
Compensation  and is an  eligible  Employee.  The  amount of Bonus  Compensation
deferred  by an  Eligible  Employee  for a Plan Year will be  deducted  from his
payment under the applicable compensation program at the time it would otherwise
be made, provided he remains an eligible Employee at such time.

     (a) Time of Deferral Election.

          (1) Deferrals of Base  Compensation.  An eligible Employee must make a
     deferral  election  for a Plan Year with  respect to Base  Compensation  at
     least two  months  prior 



     to the Plan Year in which the Base  Compensation  would  otherwise be paid.
     However, an individual who newly becomes an eligible Employee during a Plan
     Year (or less than three  months  prior to a Plan Year) may make a deferral
     election with respect to Base Compensation to be paid during the balance of
     the current Plan Year within 30 days of the date the individual  becomes an
     eligible  Employee.  Such an  individual  may also make an election at this
     time with  respect  to Base  Compensation  to be paid  during the next Plan
     Year.

          (2) Deferrals of Bonus Compensation.  An eligible Employee must make a
     deferral election for a Plan Year with respect to his Bonus Compensation at
     least six  months  prior to the Plan  Year in which the Bonus  Compensation
     would  otherwise  be paid.  However,  an  individual  who newly  becomes an
     eligible  Employee may make a deferral  election  with respect to his Bonus
     Compensation  to be paid  during  the  succeeding  Plan Year so long as the
     deferral election is made within 30 days of the date the individual becomes
     an eligible  Employee  and prior to the first day of such  succeeding  Plan
     Year.  In the first Plan Year,  an  eligible  Employee  may make a deferral
     election until October 31, 1997 with respect to Bonus Compensation  payable
     in the following year.

     (b)  Complete  Election  Form  Required.  To  be  effective,   an  Eligible
Employee's  Election Form must set forth the percentage of Base  Compensation or
Bonus  Compensation,  the investment  choice under Section 4.1 (which investment
choice shall be stated in multiples of one percent),  the deferral  period under
Section 3.3,  the eligible  Employee's  Beneficiary  designation,  and any other
information that may be requested by the Plan Administrator from time to time.

     (c) Election  Irrevocable.  An election is  irrevocable  once  received and
determined  by the Plan  Administrator  to be properly  completed.  Increases or
decreases in the amount or percentage a Participant elects to defer shall not be
permitted during a Plan Year.

     (d) Failure to File Election Form. If an eligible  Employee fails to file a
properly completed and executed Election Form with the Plan Administrator by the
prescribed  time,  he will be  deemed  to have  elected  not to  defer  any Base
Compensation or Bonus Compensation,  as the case may be, for the applicable Plan
Year.

     (e)  Extension  of  Election  Period.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of
subsections  (c) and (d),  to the  extent  necessary  because  of  extraordinary
circumstances,  the Plan  Administrator  may grant an  extension of any election
period and may permit (to the extent  necessary  to avoid  undue  hardship to an
eligible Employee) the complete revocation of an election with respect to future
deferrals.  Any such extension or revocation shall be available only if the Plan
Administrator determines it shall not trigger constructive receipt of income and
only upon such conditions as may be required by the Plan Administrator.

     3.3 Period of Deferral.  An eligible  Employee  making a deferral  election
shall specify a deferral  period on his Election Form by  designating a specific
payout date, one or more specific payout events,  or both a date and one or more
specific  events  from  the  choices  that are made  available  to the  eligible
Employee by the Plan  Administrator.  Subject to the next sentence,  an eligible
Employee's  elected  period of deferral  shall run until the earliest  occurring
date or event  specified  on his  Election  Form.  Notwithstanding  an  eligible
Employee's actual election, an eligible Employee shall be deemed to have elected
a period of deferral of not less than:



     (a) For Base Compensation, at least until January 1 of the second Plan Year
following the Plan Year during which the Base Compensation  would have been paid
absent the  deferral  (until 6 months  after the Plan Year during which the Base
Compensation  would  have been  paid for  deferral  elections  made  before  the
Effective Date); and

     (b) For  Bonus  Compensation,  at least 2 years  after  the date the  Bonus
Compensation  would have been paid  absent  the  deferral  (1 year for  deferral
elections made before the Effective Date);

     3.4 Beneficiary Designation.  A Participant shall designate on the Election
Form a  Beneficiary  to  receive  payment  in the event of his death of  amounts
credited to his Account. To be effective, any Beneficiary designation must be in
writing, signed by the Participant,  and filed with the Plan Administrator prior
to the  Participant's  death,  and it must meet such other standards as the Plan
Administrator shall require from time to time.

     (a) No  Designation.  If no  designation  is in  effect  at the  time  of a
Participant's  death or if all designated  Beneficiaries  have  predeceased  the
Participant, then the Participant's Beneficiary shall be his estate.

     (b)  Change  in  Designation.  At any  time,  a  Participant  may  change a
Beneficiary  designation  for any or all subaccounts in a writing that is signed
by  the  Participant  and  filed  with  the  Plan  Administrator  prior  to  the
Participant's   death,   and  that  meets  such  other  standards  as  the  Plan
Administrator shall require from time to time.

     (c) Change in Relationship.  A Beneficiary  designation of an individual by
name (or name and  relationship)  remains in effect  regardless of any change in
the  designated  individual's  relationship  to the  Participant.  A Beneficiary
designation solely by relationship (for example, a designation of "spouse," that
does not give the name of the spouse) shall  designate  whoever is the person in
that  relationship  to  the  Participant  at his  death.  An  individual  who is
otherwise a Beneficiary  with respect to a Participant's  Account ceases to be a
Beneficiary when all payments have been made from the Account.



                                   ARTICLE IV

                            INTERESTS OF PARTICIPANTS

     4.1 Accounting for Participants'  Interests. A Participant's deferral shall
be credited to his Account as soon as  practicable  following  the date when the
deferral  of   compensation   actually   occurs,   as  determined  by  the  Plan
Administrator.  A  Participant's  Account is a  bookkeeping  device to track the
value of his deferrals (and his Employer's liability therefor).  No assets shall
be reserved or segregated in connection  with any Account,  and no Account shall
be insured or otherwise secured.

     (a) Deferral  Subaccounts.  Each Participant shall have a separate Deferral
Subaccount   credited  with  the  amount  of  each  separate  deferral  of  Base
Compensation or Bonus Compensation made by the Participant under the Plan.

     (b) Account Earnings or Losses.  As of each Valuation Date, a Participant's
Account  shall be  credited  with  earnings  and gains (and shall be debited for
expenses and losses)  determined  as if the amounts  credited to his Account had
actually been invested as directed by the  Participant  in accordance  with this
section (as  modified  by Section  4.3).  The Plan  provides  only for  "phantom
investments,"  and  therefore  such  earnings,  gains,  expenses  and losses are
hypothetical and not actual. However, they shall be applied to measure the value
of a  Participant's  Account and the amount of his Employer's  liability to make
deferred payments to or on behalf of the Participant.

     (c)  Investment  Options.  Each of a  Participant's  Subaccounts  shall  be
invested on a phantom basis in any  combination  of phantom  investment  options
specified by the  Participant  (or following  the  Participant's  death,  by his
Beneficiary) from those offered by the Plan Administrator from time to time. The
Plan Administrator may discontinue any phantom investment option with respect to
some or all  Accounts,  and may provide  for  shifting a  Participant's  phantom
investment  from the  discontinued  option  to a  specified  replacement  option
(unless the Participant  selects another  replacement  option in accordance with
such requirements as the Plan Administrator may apply).

          (1)  Phantom  Investment  Accounts.   From  time  to  time,  the  Plan
     Administrator  shall  designate  which of the investment  options under the
     Company's Long Term Savings Plan  ("SaveUp")  shall be available as phantom
     investment options under this Plan. As of the Effective Date, the available
     phantom  options  are  the  Equity-Index  Account,  Equity-Income  Account,
     Security Plus Account,  and the Tricon  Common Stock  Account.  Participant
     Accounts  invested  in these  phantom  options  are  adjusted to reflect an
     investment in the corresponding  investment options under SaveUp. An amount
     deferred or  transferred  into one of these options is converted to phantom
     units in the  applicable  SaveUp fund of equivalent  value by dividing such
     amount  by the  value of a unit in such  fund on the  date as of which  the
     amount is invested in this option by the Plan Administrator.  Thereafter, a
     Participant's  interest  in each  such  phantom  option  is  valued as of a
     Valuation Date by  multiplying  the number of phantom units credited to his
     Account on such date by the value of a unit in the applicable SaveUp fund.

          (2) Tricon  Common  Stock  Account.  In no event will shares of Tricon
     Common  Stock  actually  be  purchased  or held  under  this  Plan,  and no
     Participant  shall have any rights as a shareholder  of Tricon Common Stock
     on account  of an  interest  in this  phantom  option.  If shares of Tricon
     Common  Stock  change  by  reason  of  any  stock  split,  stock  dividend,



     recapitalization,  merger, consolidation,  spinoff, combination or exchange
     of shares,  complete  or partial  liquidation  or other  similar  corporate
     change,  such  equitable  adjustment  shall be made in the number of shares
     credited  to an  Account  or  subaccount  as  the  Plan  Administrator  may
     determine to be necessary or appropriate.

     (d) Method of  Allocation.  With  respect  to any  deferral  election  by a
Participant, the Participant must use his Election Form to allocate the deferral
in one percent  increments among the phantom  investment options then offered by
the Plan Administrator.  Thereafter, except for amounts invested in the Discount
Stock Account,  a Participant may reallocate  previously  deferred  amounts in a
subaccount  by calling the Tricon  Savings  Center Line and  specifying,  in one
percent  increments,  the  reallocation  of his  Subaccount  among  the  phantom
investment options then offered by the Plan Administrator. Any such reallocation
generally  shall be effective  beginning with the second payroll cycle following
such call.

     4.2 Vesting of a Participant's Account.  Except as provided in Section 4.3,
a  Participant's  interest in the value of his Account shall at all times be 100
percent  vested,  which means that it will not be  forfeited  as a result of his
Termination of Employment.

     4.3 Risk of  Forfeiture  Subaccounts.  This  section  provides two separate
opportunities  for  certain  eligible  Participants  to invest  their  deferrals
subject to a risk of forfeiture for certain Terminations of Employment.

     (a) Discount  Stock.  Beginning after the Effective Date, a Participant who
is  classified  as a Director or a Pizza Hut Market Coach may elect to defer his
Bonus  Compensation  for each year to a separate  Discount  Stock  Subaccount in
accordance  with this  subsection.  For investment  purposes,  any such deferral
shall be treated as if it were  invested in the Tricon  Phantom  Stock  Account,
except that the number of phantom shares allocated to the Participant's Discount
Stock  Subaccount  shall initially be determined by dividing his deferral amount
by 75 percent of the Fair Market Value of Tricon  Common Stock on the date as of
which  the  amount  is  credited  to the  Discount  Stock  Account  by the  Plan
Administrator.  Only whole shares are determined.  Any remaining amount (and all
amounts that would be received by the Account as  dividends,  if dividends  were
paid on phantom  shares of Tricon Common Stock as they are on actual shares) are
credited to a dividend  subaccount that is invested in the phantom Security Plus
Account described in Section 4.1(c)(1).

          (1)  Forfeitures.  A  Participant  shall  forfeit  the  entire  amount
     credited to his Discount Stock Subaccount (as adjusted for changes in value
     under  Section  4.1) if he has a  Termination  of  Employment  prior to the
     second anniversary of the date as of which his deferral was credited to the
     subaccount (the "Second Anniversary").  Notwithstanding the prior sentence,
     if the Plan  Administrator  determines that the  Participant's  termination
     prior to the Second Anniversary was:

               (i) An involuntary  termination  without cause, the amount in the
          subaccount  shall be  recalculated to equal the original amount of the
          Participant's deferral to the subaccount,  but there shall be no other
          forfeiture;

               (ii) On account of total disability or death, no forfeiture shall
          occur;




               (iii) On account of Retirement  after  attaining at least age 65,
          no forfeiture shall occur;

               (iv) On account of  Retirement  before age 65 but on or after the
          first anniversary of the date as of which the deferral was credited to
          the  Participant's  his  subaccount  (the  "First  Anniversary"),   no
          forfeiture shall occur; or

               (v) On account of  Retirement  before age 65 and before the First
          Anniversary,  the amount in the subaccount  shall be  recalculated  to
          eliminate a prorated portion of the total value of the discount (which
          shall  include any related  phantom  stock  appreciation  and dividend
          equivalents), but there shall be no other forfeiture.

     For purposes of  subparagraph  (v) above,  the portion of the discount that
shall be  eliminated  shall be  calculated  by taking (I) the total value of the
discount,  multiplying  it by (II) the  number  of days  from the  Participant's
Termination of Employment to the First Anniversary, and dividing this product by
(III) 365.

          (2) Transfer  Restrictions:  Amounts  deferred  into a Discount  Stock
     Subaccount  must remain invested in phantom Tricon Common Stock and may not
     be transferred into another phantom investment.

     (b) Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture. A Participant may elect to defer Base
Compensation or Bonus Compensation to a Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount  provided
for in this subsection (a  "Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount") only
if: (i) he had, as of June 1, 1994, a deferred compensation subaccount under the
Prior Plan maintained under a forfeiture  agreement (as defined below), and (ii)
he is not yet  eligible  to  retire  when the  first  amount  would be  deferred
pursuant to his current risk-of-forfeiture election. A "forfeiture agreement" is
an  agreement  with the  Company,  any  Employer,  or one of their  predecessors
providing  that the  subaccount  would be forfeited  if the employee  terminated
employment  voluntarily  or on  account of  misconduct  prior to  Retirement.  A
Participant  who meets these  requirements  may elect under Article III to defer
some or all of his eligible  compensation to a Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture
Subaccount subject to the following terms.

          (1) A Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount will be terminated
     and  forfeited  in the event  that the  Participant  has a  Termination  of
     Employment  that is  voluntary  or because of his  misconduct  prior to the
     earliest of:

               (i) The end of the  deferral  period  designated  in his Election
          Form for such deferral;

               (ii) The date the Participant becomes eligible for Retirement; or

               (iii) The date  indicated on his Election  Form as the end of the
          risk of forfeiture  condition  (but not before  completing the minimum
          risk of forfeiture period required by the Plan Administrator from time
          to time).

          (2) A Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount shall become fully
     vested (and shall cease to be a Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount) when:




               (i) The  Participant  reaches any of the dates in  paragraph  (1)
          above while still employed by the Company or one of its affiliates, or

               (ii) On the date the Participant  terminates  involuntarily  from
          his  Employer   (including  death  and  termination  for  disability),
          provided that such termination is not for his misconduct.

     (3) No amounts  credited to a Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount
may  be  transferred  to  a  subaccount  of  the  Participant   that  is  not  a
Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount. No amounts credited to a subaccount
of the Participant that is not a Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount may
be transferred to a Grandfathered Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount.

     (4)  A  Participant   may  initially   direct  and  then   reallocate   his
Grandfathered  Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount  to any of the phantom  investment
options  under the Plan  that are  currently  available  for such  direction  or
reallocation,  whichever applies.  During the period before a Grandfathered Risk
of  Forfeiture  Subaccount  ceases to be a Risk of  Forfeiture  Subaccount,  the
return  under  any such  phantom  investment  option  shall be  supplemented  as
follows.

          (i) In the case of the Tricon Common Stock Account,  the Participant's
     dividend  subaccount  thereunder  shall  be  credited  with  an  additional
     year-end dividend amount equal to 2 percent of the average closing price of
     Tricon  Common  Stock for the 30  business  days  preceding  the end of the
     Company's  fiscal year multiplied by the number of phantom shares of Tricon
     Common  Stock  credited to the  Participant's  Account as of the end of the
     year.  If the  Participant's  subaccount  was not a  Grandfathered  Risk of
     Forfeiture   Subaccount  for  the  entire  year  (or  if  the   Participant
     reallocated  amounts to the Tricon Common Stock Account after the beginning
     of the year),  this 2 percent  additional  dividend  will be prorated  down
     appropriately,  as determined by the Plan Administrator.  In addition,  the
     Participant's  dividend  subaccount shall earn interest at a rate that is 2
     percent above the rate ordinarily  applicable  under the Prime Rate Account
     for the period that it is contained within a Risk of Forfeiture Subaccount.

          (ii) In the case of any other available phantom investment option, the
     return on each such  option  shall be  supplemented  with an  additional  2
     percent annual return for the period that it is held within a Grandfathered
     Risk of Forfeiture  Subaccount (but prorated for periods of such investment
     of less than a year).

     4.4 Distribution of a Participant's  Account. A Participant's Account shall
be distributed  as provided in this Section 4.4. Any Discount  Stock  Subaccount
and the portion of any other  subaccount  that is invested in the Tricon  Common
Stock  Account  may be  distributed,  at the  option of the Plan  Administrator,
either in the form of cash or in whole shares of Tricon  Common Stock (with cash
for any  partial  share  and the  value  of the  dividend  account).  All  other
subaccount balances shall be distributed in cash.

     (a)  Scheduled  Payout  Date.  With  respect  to  a  specific  deferral,  a
Participant's  "Scheduled  Payout  Date" shall be the  earliest to occur date or
event of those selected by the  Participant for such deferral in accordance with
Section 3.3.  Notwithstanding the prior sentence, in the case of a 




deferral into a Discount  Stock Account that (under  Section  4.3(a)(1)(i))  has
been  recalculated  to equal the original  amount of the deferral in  connection
with an involuntary  termination without cause, a Participant's Scheduled Payout
Date for the  recalculated  amount shall be the date of such termination (or two
years after the date of the deferral, if later than such termination). Unless an
election  has  been  made  in  accordance   with   subsection  (b)  below,   the
Participant's  subaccount  containing  the deferral  shall be distributed to the
Participant in a single lump sum as soon as practicable  following the Scheduled
Payout Date.

     (b)  Valuation.  In determining  the amount of any individual  distribution
pursuant to subsection (a) above, the Participant's subaccount shall continue to
be credited  with earnings and gains (and debited for expenses and losses) under
Sections 4.1 and 4.3 until the Valuation Date.

     (c) Limitations.  The following limitations apply to distributions from the
Plan.

          (1) If a Participant has elected a Scheduled Payout Date that would be
     after his 80th birthday,  the  Participant  shall be deemed to have elected
     his 80th birthday as his Scheduled Payout Date.

          (2) If a Participant has elected to defer income,  which would qualify
     as performance-based compensation under Code section 162(m), into a Risk of
     Forfeiture Subaccount, then such subaccount may not be paid out at any time
     while the Participant is a covered  employee under Code section  162(m)(3),
     to the  extent  the  Plan  Administrator  determines  it  would  result  in
     compensation  being paid to the  Participant in such year that would not be
     deductible  under Code section 162(m).  The payout of any such amount shall
     be deferred until a year when the Participant is no longer a section 162(m)
     covered employee. The Plan Administrator may waive the foregoing provisions
     of this paragraph to the extent necessary to avoid an undue hardship to the
     Participant.  This paragraph shall apply  notwithstanding  any provision of
     the Plan to the contrary.

     (d)  Upon a  Participant's  death,  his  Beneficiary  shall  be  paid  each
subaccount  still  standing  to the  Participant's  credit  under  the  Plan  in
accordance  with  the  terms  of the  Participant's  payout  election  for  such
subaccount under Section 3.3.

     Except as expressly provided in this Section 4.5, no payments shall be made
under this Plan prior to the date (or dates) applicable under Section 4.4.

     (a) A Participant who is suffering severe financial hardship resulting from
extraordinary  and  unforeseeable  events beyond the control of the  Participant
(and who does not have other funds  reasonably  available that could satisfy the
severe   financial   hardship)  may  file  a  written   request  with  the  Plan
Administrator for accelerated payment of all or a portion of the amount credited
to his  Account.  A committee  composed of  representatives  from the  Company's
Compensation  Department and Law  Department,  or such other parties as the Plan
Administrator  may  specify  from time to time,  shall have sole  discretion  to
determine  whether a  Participant  satisfies  the  requirements  for a  hardship
request  and the  amount  that may be  distributed  (which  shall not exceed the
amount reasonably necessary to alleviate the Participant's hardship).



     (b)  The  Plan   Administrator   may  adjust  the  standards  for  hardship
withdrawals  from time to time to the extent it determines such adjustment to be
necessary to avoid triggering constructive receipt of income under the Plan.

     (c)  A  Beneficiary   may  also  request  a  hardship   distribution   upon
satisfaction  of  the  foregoing  requirements  and  subject  to  the  foregoing
limitations.

     (d) When some or all of a Participant's  subaccount is distributed pursuant
to this section, the distribution and the subaccount shall be valued as provided
by the Plan  Administrator,  using rules patterned after those in Section 4.4(b)
above.



                                    ARTICLE V

                               PLAN ADMINISTRATOR

     5.1  Plan  Administrator.   The  Plan  Administrator  is  the  Compensation
Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the  "Committee") or its delegate
or  delegates,  who shall act within the scope of their  delegation  pursuant to
such operating  guidelines as the Committee  shall  establish from time to time.
The Plan Administrator is responsible for the administration of the Plan.

     5.2  Action.  Action  by the  Committee  may be  taken in  accordance  with
procedures that the Committee adopts from time to time or that the Company's Law
Department determines are legally permissible.

     5.3 Right and Duties.  The Plan  Administrator  shall administer and manage
the Plan and  shall  have all  powers  necessary  to  accomplish  that  purpose,
including (but not limited to) the following:

     (a) To exercise its  discretionary  authority to construe,  interpret,  and
administer this Plan;

     (b) To exercise its discretionary authority to make all decisions regarding
eligibility, participation and deferrals, to make allocations and determinations
required by this Plan, and to maintain records regarding Participants' Accounts;

     (c) To compute and certify to the Employer the amount and kinds of payments
to Participants or their Beneficiaries,  and to determine the time and manner in
which such payments are to be paid;

     (d) To authorize all disbursements by the Employer pursuant to this Plan;

     (e) To maintain (or cause to be maintained)  all the necessary  records for
administration of this Plan;

     (f) To make and publish such rules for the  regulation  of this Plan as are
not inconsistent with the terms hereof;

     (g) To delegate  to other  individuals  or  entities  from time to time the
performance of any of its duties or responsibilities hereunder;

     (h)  To  establish  or  to  change  the  phantom   investment   options  or
arrangements under Article IV; and

     (i) To hire agents, accountants,  actuaries,  consultants and legal counsel
to assist in operating and administering the Plan.

The Plan Administrator has the exclusive and discretionary authority to construe
and to interpret the Plan, to decide all questions of eligibility  for benefits,
to determine  the amount and manner of payment of such  benefits and to make any
determinations that are contemplated by (or permissible under) the terms of this
Plan,  and its  decisions on such matters  will be final and  conclusive  on all
parties.  Any such decision or  determination  shall 



be made in the absolute and unrestricted  discretion of the Plan  Administrator,
even if (A) such  discretion is not expressly  granted by the Plan provisions in
question,  or  (B) a  determination  is not  expressly  called  for by the  Plan
provisions in question,  and even though other Plan  provisions  expressly grant
discretion  or call for a  determination.  In the  event of a review by a court,
arbitrator  or any other  tribunal,  any  exercise  of the Plan  Administrator's
discretionary  authority shall not be disturbed unless it is clearly shown to be
arbitrary and capricious.

     5.4  Compensation,  Indemnity and Liability.  The Plan  Administrator  will
serve without bond and without compensation for services hereunder. All expenses
of the Plan and the Plan Administrator  will be paid by the Employer.  No member
of the  Committee,  and no individual  acting as the delegate of the  Committee,
shall be liable for any act or omission of any other member or  individual,  nor
for any act or omission on his own part,  excepting his own willful  misconduct.
The Employer  will  indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Committee and
any  individual or individuals  acting as the delegate of the Committee  against
any and all  expenses  and  liabilities,  including  reasonable  legal  fees and
expenses,  arising out of his membership on the Committee (or his serving as the
delegate of the Committee),  excepting only expenses and liabilities arising out
of his own willful misconduct.

     5.5 Taxes.  If the whole or any part of any  Participant's  Account becomes
liable for the payment of any estate,  inheritance,  income,  or other tax which
the Employer may be required to pay or withhold, the Employer will have the full
power and  authority  to  withhold  and pay such tax out of any  moneys or other
property  in its hand for the  account of the  Participant.  The  Employer  will
provide the Participant notice of such withholding. Prior to making any payment,
the Employer may require such releases or other documents from any lawful taxing
authority as it shall deem necessary.




                                   ARTICLE VI

                                CLAIMS PROCEDURE

     6.1  Claims for  Benefits.  If a  Participant  or  Beneficiary  (hereafter,
"Claimant")  does not receive  timely  payment of any benefits which he believes
are due and payable under the Plan, he may make a claim for benefits to the Plan
Administrator.  The claim for benefits  must be in writing and  addressed to the
Plan  Administrator or to the Company.  If the claim for benefits is denied, the
Plan  Administrator will notify the Claimant in writing within 90 days after the
Plan  Administrator  initially received the benefit claim.  However,  if special
circumstances  require an extension of time for processing  the claim,  the Plan
Administrator  will furnish notice of the extension to the Claimant prior to the
termination  of the initial  90-day period and such extension may not exceed one
additional, consecutive 90-day period. Any notice of a denial of benefits should
advise the  Claimant of the basis for the  denial,  any  additional  material or
information necessary for the Claimant to perfect his claim, and the steps which
the Claimant must take to have his claim for benefits reviewed.

     6.2  Appeals.  Each  Claimant  whose claim for benefits has been denied may
file a written request for a review of his claim by the Plan Administrator.  The
request  for  review  must be  filed by the  Claimant  within  60 days  after he
received  the  written  notice  denying  his  claim.  The  decision  of the Plan
Administrator  will be made within 60 days after receipt of a request for review
and will be communicated  in writing to the Claimant.  Such written notice shall
set forth the basis for the Plan Administrator's  decision. If there are special
circumstances  which require an extension of time for completing the review, the
Plan  Administrator's  decision  may be  rendered  not later than 120 days after
receipt of a request for review.



                                   ARTICLE VII

                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     7.1 Amendments. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the
Company has the right in its sole  discretion  to amend this Plan in whole or in
part at any time and in any manner;  provided,  however,  that no such amendment
shall  reduce the amount  credited to the Account of any  Participant  as of the
date such amendment is adopted. Any amendment shall be in writing and adopted by
the  Committee or an officer of the Company who is  authorized  by the Committee
for this purpose. All Participants shall be bound by such amendment.

     7.2  Termination  of Plan.  The Company  expects to continue this Plan, but
does not  obligate  itself to do so.  The  Company,  acting by the  Compensation
Committee  of its Board of  Directors,  reserves  the right to  discontinue  and
terminate the Plan at any time, in whole or in part, for any reason (including a
change,  or an  impending  change,  in the tax laws of the United  States or any
State).  Termination  of the Plan will be  binding  on all  Participants  (and a
partial termination shall be binding upon all affected Participants),  but in no
event may such  termination  reduce  the  amounts  credited  at that time to any
Participant's Account. If this Plan is terminated (in whole or in part), amounts
theretofore credited to affected  Participants' Accounts may either be paid in a
lump sum immediately,  or distributed in some other manner  consistent with this
Plan, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.




                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS


     8.1 Limitation on Participant's Rights. Participation in this Plan does not
give any  Participant  the right to be retained in the  Employer's  or Company's
employ (or any right or  interest  in this Plan or any assets of the  Company or
Employer other than as herein  provided).  The Company and Employer  reserve the
right to terminate the employment of any  Participant  without any liability for
any claim  against the Company or Employer  under this Plan,  except for a claim
for payment of deferrals as provided herein.

     8.2 Unfunded  Obligation of Individual  Employer.  The benefits provided by
this Plan are unfunded.  All amounts payable under this Plan to Participants are
paid from the general assets of the Participant's  individual Employer.  Nothing
contained in this Plan  requires the Company or Employer to set aside or hold in
trust any amounts or assets for the purpose of paying benefits to  Participants.
This Plan creates only a contractual  obligation on the part of a  Participant's
individual  Employer,  and the Participant has the status of a general unsecured
creditor  of this  Employer  with  respect to amounts of  compensation  deferred
hereunder. No other Employer guarantees or shares such obligation,  and no other
Employer shall have any liability to the Participant or his Beneficiary.  In the
event a Participant  transfers  from the  employment of one Employer to another,
the former  Employer  shall  transfer the liability for deferrals made while the
Participant  was employed by that Employer to the new Employer (and the books of
both Employers shall be adjusted appropriately).

     8.3 Other  Plans.  This Plan  shall not  affect  the right of any  eligible
Employee or  Participant  to  participate  in and receive  benefits under and in
accordance with the provisions of any other employee benefit plans which are now
or hereafter maintained by any Employer, unless the terms of such other employee
benefit  plan or plans  specifically  provide  otherwise  or it would cause such
other plan to violate a requirement for tax favored treatment.

     8.4 Receipt or Release. Any payment to a Participant in accordance with the
provisions of this Plan shall, to the extent thereof, be in full satisfaction of
all claims against the Plan Administrator, the Employer and the Company, and the
Plan  Administrator  may require such Participant,  as a condition  precedent to
such payment, to execute a receipt and release to such effect.

     8.5 Governing Law. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed
in all respects in accordance with applicable federal law and, to the extent not
preempted  by federal  law,  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of North
Carolina.  If any  provisions  of this  instrument  shall  be held by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable,  the remaining provisions
hereof shall continue to be fully effective.

     8.6  Adoption  of Plan by Related  Employers.  The Plan  Administrator  may
select any corporation  related to the Company by stock ownership as an Employer
and permit or cause such  corporation  to adopt the Plan.  The  selection by the
Plan  Administrator  shall govern the effective date of the adoption of the Plan
by such related Employer.

     8.7 Gender,  Tense,  and  Headings.  In this Plan,  whenever the context so
indicates, the singular or plural number and the masculine,  feminine, or neuter
gender shall be deemed to include the other.  Headings 



and  subheadings in this Plan are inserted for convenience of reference only and
are not considered in the construction of the provisions hereof.

     8.8 Successors and Assigns;  Nonalienation of Benefits. This Plan inures to
the  benefit of and is binding  upon the  parties  hereto and their  successors,
heirs and assigns;  provided,  however, that the amounts credited to the Account
of a  Participant  are not (except as provided  in Section  5.5)  subject in any
manner  to  anticipation,   alienation,  sale,  transfer,   assignment,  pledge,
encumbrance,  charge,  garnishment,  execution  or  levy  of  any  kind,  either
voluntary  or  involuntary,  and any  attempt  to  anticipate,  alienate,  sell,
transfer,  assign, pledge, encumber, charge or otherwise dispose of any right to
any benefits payable hereunder, including, without limitation, any assignment or
alienation in connection  with a separation,  divorce,  child support or similar
arrangement, will be null and void and not binding on the Plan or the Company or
Employer.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to make
payments in accordance with a divorce  decree,  judgment or other court order as
and when cash payments are made in accordance with the terms of this Plan due to
the Account of a Participant and credited against such Account.

     8.9 Facility of Payment.  Whenever, in the Plan Administrator's  opinion, a
Participant or Beneficiary  entitled to receive any payment hereunder is under a
legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be unable to manage his
financial  affairs,  the Plan  Administrator  may  direct the  Employer  to make
payments  to such person or to the legal  representative  of such person for his
benefit,  or to apply the  payment for the benefit of such person in such manner
as the Plan Administrator  considers  advisable.  Any payment in accordance with
the  provisions of this section  shall be a complete  discharge of any liability
for the making of such payment to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan.





     This _____ day of  ____________________,  1997,  the above restated Plan is
hereby  adopted and  approved by the  Company's  duly  authorized  officer to be
effective as stated herein.


                                   TRICON, INC.



                                   By:_____________________________________



APPROVED


By:  _____________________________
        Law Department




                  TRICON RESTAURANT DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

                                    APPENDIX



     The following  Appendix  articles modify or supplement the general terms of
the Plan as it applies to certain executives.

     Except as specifically  modified in the Appendix,  the foregoing provisions
of the Plan shall fully apply. In the event of a conflict  between this Appendix
and the foregoing provisions of the Plan, the Appendix shall govern with respect
to the conflict.



                                    ARTICLE A

                              SPINOFF FROM PEPSICO

     This  Article  sets  forth  provisions  that apply in  connection  with the
Company's spinoff from PepsiCo, Inc.

     A.1 Definitions:  When used in this Article, the following underlined terms
shall have the meanings set forth  below.  Except as otherwise  provided in this
Article,  all terms  that are  defined  in Article II of the Plan shall have the
meaning assigned to them by Article II.

     (a) 1997 Agreement:  The 1997 Employee  Programs  Agreement between PepsiCo
and Tricon (dated as of August 26, 1997).

     (b) Distribution  Date: The "Distribution  Date" as that term is defined in
the 1997 Separation Agreement between PepsiCo and Tricon.

     (c)  PepsiCo  Account  Holder:  A  Participant  who had an  interest in the
PepsiCo  Capital  Stock Account  under the Prior Plan  immediately  prior to the
Effective Date.

     (d) Transferred  Individual:  A nonterminated  "Transferred  Individual" as
that term is defined in the 1997  Agreement.  For this  purpose,  a  Transferred
Individual shall be considered "nonterminated" if he is actively employed by (or
on a leave of absence from and expected to return to) the Company and any of its
affiliates, as of the end of the day on the Distribution Date.

     (e)  Transition  Individuals:  A  "Transition  Individual"  as that term is
defined in the 1997 Agreement.

     (f) PepsiCo: PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina Corporation.

     A.2 Assumption of Benefits and  Liabilities.  Effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, all interests in the Prior Plan of (and Prior
Plan  liabilities with respect to) Transferred  Individuals  shall be assumed by
this Plan.

     (a) In the case of a Transferred Individual,  effective as of the beginning
of the day on the Effective  Date, his Account shall be credited with the amount
that stood to his credit under the Prior Plan immediately prior to the Effective
Date, and the allocation of this amount to phantom investment options under this
Plan shall mirror the allocation then in effect for the  Transferred  Individual
under the Prior Plan.

     (b) Any  deferral  election  made  under the Prior  Plan for a  Transferred
Individual shall be carried over and continued under this Plan.  Notwithstanding
the prior sentence, a Transferred  Individual may revise his Prior Plan deferral
election  for Bonus  Compensation  payable in 1998 by making a new  election not
later than October 31, 1997.

     A.3 Special PepsiCo Stock Investment  Option. As of the Effective Date, the
Plan  Administrator  shall establish a temporary phantom investment option under
the Plan, the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.  In no event will shares of PepsiCo
capital stock  actually be purchased or held under this Plan, and no 

                                      A-1

 
Participant  shall have any rights as a shareholder of PepsiCo  capital stock on
account of an interest in the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.

     (a)  Valuation  and  Adjustment:  A  Participant's  interest in the PepsiCo
Capital Stock Account is adjusted to reflect an investment in the  corresponding
investment  option under SaveUp.  An amount  deferred or  transferred  into this
account  is  converted  to  phantom  units  in the  applicable  SaveUp  fund  of
equivalent  value by dividing such amount by the value of a unit in such fund on
the  date as of  which  the  amount  is  invested  in this  option  by the  Plan
Administrator.  Thereafter, a Participant's interest in the account is valued as
of a Valuation Date by  multiplying  the number of phantom units credited to his
Account on such date by the value of a unit in the  applicable  SaveUp fund.  If
shares of  PepsiCo  capital  stock  change by reason of any stock  split,  stock
dividend,  recapitalization,  merger,  consolidation,  spin-off,  combination or
exchange of shares,  complete or partial  liquidation or other similar corporate
change, such equitable adjustment shall be made in the number of shares credited
to an  Account or  subaccount  as the Plan  Administrator  may  determine  to be
necessary or appropriate.

     (b) Investment Reallocations.  In accordance with Section 4.1(d), a PepsiCo
Account  Holder may  reallocate  amounts  from his  Subaccounts  in the  PepsiCo
Capital Stock Account to other  phantom  investment  options under the Plan that
are available for this purpose.  No Participant may reallocate  amounts into the
PepsiCo Capital Stock Account.

     (c) Termination of the PepsiCo  Capital Stock Account.  Effective as of the
end  of  the  day on  December  31,  1998  (or  such  later  date  as  the  Plan
Administrator  shall specify),  the PepsiCo Capital Stock Account shall cease to
be available  under the Plan.  Any amount  under the Plan still  standing to the
credit  of a  PepsiCo  Account  Holder  on  such  date  shall  automatically  be
reallocated to the Security Plus Account  described in Section  4.1(c)(1) unless
the Participant  selects a different  replacement option in accordance with such
requirements as the Plan Administrator may apply.

     A.4  Employment  Transfers by  Transition  Individuals.  This section shall
apply to individuals who transfer between Tricon and PepsiCo under circumstances
that cause them to be Transition Individuals.

     (a) If a  Participant,  who is a Transition  Individual,  is transferred to
PepsiCo,  such  transfer to PepsiCo  shall not be  considered a  Termination  of
Employment or other event that could trigger  distribution of the  Participant's
interest in the Plan. In this case, the Participant's  interest in the Plan (and
all Plan liabilities with respect to the Participant) shall remain in the Plan.

     (b) If a Transition Individual, who was a participant in the Prior Plan, is
transferred  from  PepsiCo  to  Tricon,  such  individual  shall be treated as a
Transferred Individual.

     A.5 Limit on Stock Distributions.  Notwithstanding that Section 4.4 permits
certain  distributions  to be made in Tricon Common  Stock,  during the two year
period following the Effective Date, the number of shares of Tricon Common Stock
delivered or purchased  under this Plan (when  aggregated  with shares of Tricon
Common  Stock  delivered  or  purchased  under  other  plans or  programs of the
Company)  shall at all times be less than the number of shares that would result
in PepsiCo not having "control" of Tricon  (immediately  before  distribution of
Tricon  Common Stock to PepsiCo's  shareholders)  within the meaning of Sections
355(a)(1)(A) and 368(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.

                                      A-2

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.14











                                     TRICON

                            PENSION EQUALIZATION PLAN

                                      (PEP)





                          As Effective October 7, 1997




                        TRICON PENSION EQUALIZATION PLAN

                                
                                                                   Page No.

ARTICLE I              Foreword                                       4

ARTICLE II             Definitions and Construction
      2.1                Definitions                                  5
      2.2                Construction                                10

ARTICLE III            Participation and Service
      3.1                Participation                               12
      3.2                Service                                     12
      3.3                Credited Service                            12
 
ARTICLE IV             Requirements for Benefits
      4.1                Normal Retirement Pension                   13
      4.2                Early Retirement Pension                    13
      4.3                Vested Pension                              13
      4.4                Late Retirement Pension                     13
      4.5                Disability Pension                          13
      4.6                Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension             13
      4.7                Vesting                                     14
      4.8                Time of Payment                             14
      4.9                Cashout Distributions                       14
      4.10               Coordination with Long Term Disability      14
                          Plan
       4.11              Reemployment of Certain Participants        14

ARTICLE V              Amount of Retirement Benefit
      5.1                PEP Pension                                 15
      5.2                PEP Guarantee                               16
      5.3                Amount of Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension   18
      5.4                Certain Adjustments                         19
      5.5                Excludable Employment                       20
 
ARTICLE VI             Distribution Options
      6.1                Form and Timing of Distributions            21
      6.2                Available Forms of Payment                  22
      6.3                Procedures for Elections                    24
      6.4                Special Rules for Survivor Options          25
      6.5                Designation of Beneficiary                  26

ARTICLE VII            Administration
      7.1                Authority to Administer Plan                27
      7.2                Facility of Payment                         27


      7.3                Claims Procedure                            27
      7.4                Effect of Specific References               28
 
ARTICLE VIII           Miscellaneous
      8.1                Nonguarantee of Employment                  29
      8.2                Nonalienation of Benefits                   29
      8.3                Unfunded Plan                               29
      8.4                Action by the Company                       29
      8.5                Indemnification                             29

ARTICLE IX             Amendment and Termination
      9.1                Continuation of the Plan                    30
      9.2                Amendments                                  30
      9.3                Termination                                 30

ARTICLE X               ERISA Plan Structure                         31

ARTICLE XI              Applicable Law                               32

ARTICLE XII             Signature                                    33

APPENDIX                                                             34

ARTICLE A               Accruals for 1993 and 1994                   35

ARTICLE B               Transferred and Transition Individuals       37



                                    ARTICLE I

                                    Foreword

     The Tricon Pension  Equalization Plan ("PEP" or "Plan") has been adopted by
Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc. ("Tricon") for the benefit of salaried employees
of the Tricon  Organization  who  participate in the Tricon  Salaried  Employees
Retirement Plan ("Salaried  Plan"). PEP provides benefits for eligible employees
whose pension  benefits under the Salaried Plan are limited by the provisions of
the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as amended.  In  addition,  PEP  provides
benefits for certain  eligible  employees  based on the pre-1989  Salaried  Plan
formula.
 
     This Plan is first  effective  on  October 7, 1997 in  connection  with the
spinoff  of Tricon  from  PepsiCo,  Inc.  This Plan is a  successor  plan to the
PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan.




                                   ARTICLE II

                          Definitions and Construction

     2.1 Definitions:  This section  provides  definitions for certain words and
phrases listed below.  These  definitions  can be found on the pages  indicated.
Page

     (a)        Accrued Benefit                                         6
     (b)        Actuarial Equivalent                                    6
     (c)        Advance Election                                        7
     (d)        Annuity                                                 7
     (e)        Annuity Starting Date                                   7
     (f)        Authorized Leave of Absence                             8
     (g)        Code                                                    8
     (h)        Company                                                 8
     (i)        Covered Compensation                                    8
     (j)        Credited Service                                        8
     (k)        Disability Retirement Pension                           8
     (l)        Early Retirement Pension                                8
     (m)        Effective Date                                          9
     (n)        Eligible Spouse                                         9
     (o)        Employee                                                9
     (p)        Employer                                                9
     (q)        ERISA                                                   9
     (r)        Highest Average Monthly Earnings                        9
     (s)        Late Retirement Date                                    9
     (t)        Late Retirement Pension                                 9
     (u)        Normal Retirement Age                                   10
     (v)        Normal Retirement Date                                  10
     (w)        Normal Retirement Pension                               10
     (x)        Participant                                             10
     (y)        PBGC                                                    10
     (z)        PBGC Rate                                               10
     (aa)       Pension                                                 10
     (bb)       PEP Election                                            10
     (cc)       Plan                                                    11
     (dd)       Plan Administrator                                      11
     (ee)       Plan Year                                               11
     (ff)       Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension                         11
     (gg)       Primary Social Security Amount                          11
     (hh)       Prior Plan                                              13
     (ii)       Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity                    13
     (jj)       Retirement                                              14
     (kk)       Retirement Date                                         14
     (ll)       Retirement Pension                                      14
     (mm)       Salaried Plan                                           14
     (nn)       Service                                                 15
     (oo)       Severance from Service Date                             15


     (pp)       Single Life Annuity                                     15
     (qq)       Single Lump Sum                                         15
     (rr)       Social Security Act                                     15
     (ss)       Taxable Wage Base                                       16
     (tt)       Tricon Organization                                     16
     (uu)       Vested Pension                                          16

Where the following  words and phrases,  in boldface and  underlined,  appear in
this Plan with  initial  capitals  they shall have the meaning set forth  below,
unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context.

     (a)  Accrued  Benefit:  The  Pension  payable  at  Normal  Retirement  Date
determined in accordance  with  Article V,  based on the  Participant's  Highest
Average Monthly Earnings and Credited Service at the date of determination.

     (b) Actuarial Equivalent: Except as otherwise specifically set forth in the
Plan  or  any  Appendix  to  the  Plan  with  respect  to  a  specific   benefit
determination,  a  benefit  of  equivalent  value  computed  on the basis of the
factors set forth below.  The  application  of the following  assumptions to the
computation  of benefits  payable  under the Plan shall be done in a uniform and
consistent  manner.  In the event the Plan is  amended to  provide  new  rights,
features or benefits,  the following  actuarial factors shall not apply to these
new elements unless specifically adopted by the amendment.

          (1) Annuities and Inflation  Protection:  To determine the amount of a
     Pension  payable in the form of a Qualified  Joint and Survivor  Annuity or
     optional  form  of  survivor  annuity,  or as  an  annuity  with  inflation
     protection,  the factors  applicable  for such purposes  under the Salaried
     Plan shall apply.

          (2) Lump Sums:  To  determine  the lump sum value of a  Pension,  or a
     Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension under Section 4.6, the factors  applicable
     for such purposes under the Salaried Plan shall apply, except that when the
     term "PBGC Rate" is used in the Salaried Plan in this context it shall mean
     "PBGC Rate" as defined in this Plan.

          (3) Other Cases: To determine the adjustment to be made in the Pension
     payable to or on behalf of a  Participant  in other cases,  the factors are
     those applicable for such purpose under the Salaried Plan.

     (c)  Advance  Election:  A  Participant's   election  to  receive  his  PEP
Retirement  Pension as a Single Lump Sum or an Annuity,  made in compliance with
the requirements of Section 6.3.

     (d) Annuity: A Pension payable as a series of monthly payments for at least
the life of the Participant.

     (e) Annuity Starting Date: The Annuity Starting Date shall be the first day
of the first period for which an amount is payable under this Plan as an annuity
or in any other form. A  Participant  who: (1) is  reemployed  after his initial
Annuity  Starting  Date,  and (2) is entitled to  benefits  hereunder  after his
reemployment,  shall have a subsequent  Annuity  Starting Date for such benefits
only to the extent provided in Section 6.3(d).

     (f)  Authorized  Leave of Absence:  Any absence  authorized  by an Employer
under the Employer's standard personnel practices, whether paid or unpaid.


                 

     (g) Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.

     (h) Company:  Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc., a corporation organized and
existing  under  the laws of the State of North  Carolina  or its  successor  or
successors.  For periods before the Effective  Date, the Company under the Prior
Plan was PepsiCo, Inc., a North Carolina corporation.

     (i) Covered Compensation: "Covered Compensation" as that term is defined in
the Salaried Plan.

     (j) Credited Service: The period of a Participant's employment,  calculated
in accordance with Section 3.3, which is counted for purposes of determining the
amount of benefits payable to, or on behalf of, the Participant.

     (k) Disability  Retirement  Pension:  The Retirement Pension available to a
Participant under Section 4.5.

     (l)  Early  Retirement  Pension:  The  Retirement  Pension  available  to a
Participant under Section 4.2.

     (m) Effective  Date: The date upon which this Plan is generally  effective,
October 7, 1997.

     (n) Eligible Spouse: The spouse of a Participant to whom the Participant is
married on the earlier of the Participant's Annuity Starting Date or the date of
the Participant's death.

     (o) Employee:  An individual who qualifies as an "Employee" as that term is
defined in the Salaried Plan.

     (p)  Employer:  An entity that  qualifies as an  "Employer" as that term is
defined in the Salaried Plan.

     (q) ERISA:  Public Law No. 93-406, the Employee  Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.

     (r) Highest Average Monthly Earnings: "Highest Average Monthly Earnings" as
that term is defined in the Salaried  Plan, but without regard to the limitation
imposed by section 401(a)(17) of the Code (as such limitation is interpreted and
applied under the Salaried Plan).

     (s) Late  Retirement  Date: The Late Retirement Date shall be the first day
of the month  coincident with or immediately  following a  Participant's  actual
Retirement Date occurring after his Normal Retirement Age.

     (t)  Late  Retirement  Pension:  The  Retirement  Pension  available  to  a
Participant under Section 4.4.

     (u) Normal  Retirement Age: The Normal Retirement Age under the Plan is age
65 or, if later, the age at which a Participant first has 5 Years of Service.


                 

     (v) Normal Retirement Date: A Participant's Normal Retirement Date shall be
the  first  day  of  the  month  coincident  with  or  immediately  following  a
Participant's Normal Retirement Age.

     (w) Normal  Retirement  Pension:  The  Retirement  Pension  available  to a
Participant under Section 4.1.

     (x) Participant:  An Employee  participating in the Plan in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.1.

     (y) PBGC: The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, a body corporate within
the Department of Labor established under the provisions of Title IV of ERISA.

     (z)  PBGC  Rate:  The  PBGC  Rate  is 120  percent  of the  interest  rate,
determined on the Participant's Annuity Starting Date, that would be used by the
PBGC for purposes of determining the present value of a lump sum distribution on
plan termination.

     (aa)  Pension:  One or more  payments  that are  payable to a person who is
entitled to receive benefits under the Plan.

     (bb) PEP Election:  A Participant's  election to receive his PEP Retirement
Pension  in one of the  Annuity  forms  available  under  Section  6.2,  made in
compliance with the requirements of Sections 6.3 and 6.4.

     (cc) Plan: The Tricon Pension Equalization Plan, the Plan set forth herein,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Plan is also  sometimes  referred to
as PEP, or as the PepsiCo Pension Benefit Equalization Plan.

     (dd) Plan  Administrator:  The  Company,  which  shall  have  authority  to
administer the Plan as provided in Article VII.

     (ee) Plan Year: The initial Plan Year, being a short Plan Year, shall begin
on the Effective Date and shall end on December 31, 1997.  Thereafter,  the Plan
Year shall be the 12-month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December
31.

     (ff) Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension: The Pension available to an Eligible
Spouse under Section 4.6.

     (gg) Primary  Social  Security  Amount:  In  determining  Pension  amounts,
Primary Social Security Amount shall mean:

          (1) For purposes of determining the amount of a Retirement,  Vested or
     Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension,  the Primary Social Security Amount shall
     be the  estimated  monthly  amount  that may be  payable  to a  Participant
     commencing at age 65 as an old-age  insurance  benefit under the provisions
     of Title II of the Social  Security Act, as amended.  Such estimates of the
     old-age  insurance  benefit to which a Participant would be entitled at age
     65 shall be based upon the following assumptions:

               (i)  That the  Participant's  social  security  wages in any year
          prior to Retirement or severance are equal to the Taxable Wage Base in
          such year, and



               (ii) That he will not  receive  any social  security  wages after
          Retirement or severance.

     However,  in computing a Vested Pension under Formula A of Section 5.2, the
estimate  of the  old-age  insurance  benefit  to which a  Participant  would be
entitled  at age 65 shall be based  upon the  assumption  that he  continued  to
receive social  security wages until age 65 at the same rate as the Taxable Wage
Base  in  effect  at  his  severance  from  employment.  For  purposes  of  this
subsection,  "social  security wages" shall mean wages within the meaning of the
Social Security Act.

          (2) For purposes of  determining  the amount of a Disability  Pension,
     the Primary Social Security Amount shall be (except as provided in the next
     sentence)  the initial  monthly  amount  actually  received by the disabled
     Participant as a disability insurance benefit under the provisions of Title
     II of the Social  Security Act, as amended and in effect at the time of the
     Participant's  retirement due to disability.  Notwithstanding the preceding
     sentence,  for any period that a Participant  receives a Disability Pension
     before  receiving a disability  insurance  benefit under the  provisions of
     Title II of the Social Security Act, then the Participant's  Primary Social
     Security  Amount for such period shall be determined  pursuant to paragraph
     (1) above.

          (3) For  purposes  of  paragraphs  (1) and  (2),  the  Primary  Social
     Security Amount shall exclude amounts that may be available  because of the
     spouse or any  dependent  of the  Participant  or any  amounts  payable  on
     account of the  Participant's  death.  Estimates of Primary Social Security
     Amounts shall be made on the basis of the Social  Security Act as in effect
     at the  Participant's  Severance  from Service Date,  without regard to any
     increases in the social  security wage base or benefit  levels  provided by
     such Act which take effect thereafter.

     (hh) Prior Plan: The PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan.

     (ii) Qualified Joint and Survivor  Annuity:  An Annuity which is payable to
the  Participant  for life with 50 percent of the amount of such Annuity payable
after the Participant's  death to his surviving Eligible Spouse for life. If the
Eligible  Spouse  predeceases  the  Participant,  no  survivor  benefit  under a
Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity shall be payable to any person.  The amount
of a Participant's  monthly payment under a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity
shall be reduced to the extent provided in sections 5.1 and 5.2, as applicable.

     (jj)  Retirement:  Termination  of employment  for reasons other than death
after a Participant has fulfilled the requirements  for either a Normal,  Early,
Late, or Disability Retirement Pension under Article IV.

     (kk)  Retirement  Date:  The date on which a  Participant's  Retirement  is
considered  to commence.  Retirement  shall be considered to commence on the day
immediately following:  (i) a Participant's last day of employment,  or (ii) the
last day of an  Authorized  Leave of  Absence,  if  later.  Notwithstanding  the
preceding sentence, in the case of a Disability  Retirement Pension,  Retirement
shall  be  considered  as  commencing  on  the  Participant's   retirement  date
applicable for such purpose under the Salaried Plan.

     (ll)  Retirement  Pension:  The  Pension  payable  to  a  Participant  upon
Retirement under the Plan.


     (mm) Salaried Plan: The Tricon Salaried  Employees  Retirement  Plan, as it
may be amended from time to time. Any reference  herein to the Salaried Plan for
a period  that is before the  Effective  Date shall  mean the  PepsiCo  Salaried
Employees Retirement Plan.

     (nn)  Service:  The  period of a  Participant's  employment  calculated  in
accordance  with  Section 3.2 for purposes of  determining  his  entitlement  to
benefits under the Plan.

     (oo) Severance from Service Date: The date on which an Employee's period of
service is deemed to end,  determined  in  accordance  with  Article  III of the
Salaried Plan.

     (pp) Single Life Annuity:  A level monthly Annuity payable to a Participant
for his life only, with no survivor benefits to his Eligible Spouse or any other
person.

     (qq) Single Lump Sum: The distribution of a Participant's  total Pension in
the form of a single payment.

     (rr) Social Security Act: The Social Security Act of the United States,  as
amended, an enactment providing  governmental benefits in connection with events
such as old age,  death and  disability.  Any  reference  herein  to the  Social
Security Act (or any of the benefits  provided  thereunder)  shall be taken as a
reference  to  any  comparable  governmental  program  of  another  country,  as
determined  by  the  Plan  Administrator,  but  only  to  the  extent  the  Plan
Administrator  judges the  computation of those benefits to be  administratively
feasible.

     (ss) Taxable Wage Base:  The  contribution  and benefit base (as determined
under section 230 of the Social Security Act) in effect for the Plan Year.

     (tt) Tricon  Organization:  The controlled  group of organizations of which
the Company is a part,  as defined by Code  section 414 and  regulations  issued
thereunder.  An entity shall be  considered a member of the Tricon  Organization
only during the period it is one of the group of organizations  described in the
preceding sentence.

     (uu) Vested Pension:  The Pension  available to a Participant under Section
4.3.

     2.2  Construction:  The terms of the Plan shall be construed in  accordance
with this section.

     (a) Gender and Number:  The masculine gender,  where appearing in the Plan,
shall be deemed to include the feminine gender, and the singular may include the
plural, unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.

     (b) Compounds of the Word "Here": The words "hereof", "hereunder" and other
similar  compounds  of the word "here"  shall mean and refer to the entire Plan,
not to any particular provision or section.

     (c)  Examples:  Whenever  an example is  provided or the text uses the term
"including" followed by a specific item or items, or there is a passage having a
similar  effect,  such  passages of the Plan shall be construed as if the phrase
"without limitation" followed such example or term (or otherwise applied to such
passage in a manner that avoids limits on its breadth of application).


     (d)  Subdivisions  of the Plan Document:  This Plan document is divided and
subdivided using the following  progression:  articles,  sections,  subsections,
paragraphs, subparagraphs, and clauses. Articles are designated by capital roman
numerals. Sections are designated by Arabic numerals containing a decimal point.
Subsections are designated by lower-case letters in parentheses.  Paragraphs are
designated by Arabic  numerals in parentheses.  Subparagraphs  are designated by
lower-case  roman numerals in parentheses.  Clauses are designated by upper-case
letters in  parentheses.  Any  reference in a section to a  subsection  (with no
accompanying  section  reference) shall be read as a reference to the subsection
with the specified  designation  contained in that same section.  A similar rule
shall  apply with  respect  to  paragraph  references  within a  subsection  and
subparagraph references within a paragraph.




                                   ARTICLE III

                            Participation and Service

     3.1  Participation:  An Employee  shall be a Participant in the Plan during
the period:

     (a) When he would be currently entitled to receive a Pension under the Plan
if his employment terminated at such time, or

     (b) When he would be so entitled but for the vesting requirement of Section
4.7.

     3.2  Service:   A   Participant's   entitlement  to  a  Pension  and  to  a
Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension for his Eligible  Spouse  shall be  determined
under  Article IV based upon his period of Service.  A  Participant's  period of
Service shall be determined under Article III of the Salaried Plan.

     3.3  Credited  Service:  The  amount  of  a  Participant's  Pension  and  a
Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension shall be based upon the Participant's period of
Credited Service, as determined under Article III of the Salaried Plan.




                                   ARTICLE IV

                            Requirements for Benefits

     A  Participant  shall be  entitled  to  receive a Pension  and a  surviving
Eligible  Spouse shall be entitled to certain  survivor  benefits as provided in
this  Article.  The amount of any such  Pension  or  survivor  benefit  shall be
determined in accordance with Article V.

     4.1  Normal  Retirement  Pension:  A  Participant  shall be eligible  for a
Normal  Retirement  Pension if he meets the requirements for a Normal Retirement
Pension in Section 4.1 of the Salaried Plan.

     4.2 Early Retirement  Pension: A Participant shall be eligible for an Early
Retirement  Pension if he meets the requirements for an Early Retirement Pension
in Section 4.2 of the Salaried Plan.

     4.3 Vested Pension:  A Participant who is vested under Section 4.7 shall be
eligible  to  receive  a  Vested  Pension  if  his  employment  in  an  eligible
classification under the Salaried Plan is terminated before he is eligible for a
Normal  Retirement  Pension or an Early  Retirement  Pension.  A Participant who
terminates employment prior to satisfying the vesting requirement in Section 4.7
shall not be entitled to receive a Pension under this Plan.

     4.4 Late Retirement  Pension: A Participant who continues  employment after
his Normal  Retirement Age shall not receive a Pension until his Late Retirement
Date. Thereafter,  a Participant shall be eligible for a Late Retirement Pension
determined  in  accordance  with Section 4.4 of the  Salaried  Plan (but without
regard  to  any  requirement  for  notice  of  suspension  under  ERISA  section
203(a)(3)(B) or any adjustment as under Section 5.5(d) of the Salaried Plan).

     4.5 Disability  Pension:  A Participant  shall be eligible for a Disability
Pension if he meets the requirements for a Disability Pension under the Salaried
Plan.

     4.6 Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension:  Any Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension
payable  under  this  section  shall  commence  as  of  the  same  time  as  the
corresponding  pre-retirement  spouse's  pension  under the  Salaried  Plan and,
subject to Section  4.9,  shall  continue  monthly for the life of the  Eligible
Spouse.

     (a) Active,  Disabled  and Retired  Employees:  A  Pre-Retirement  Spouse's
Pension  shall be payable  under this  subsection  to a  Participant's  Eligible
Spouse  (if  any)  who is  entitled  under  the  Salaried  Plan  to the  special
pre-retirement  spouse's  pension for survivors of active,  disabled and retired
employees. The amount of such Pension shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section 5.3.

     (b) Vested  Employees:  A Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension shall be payable
under  this  subsection  to a  Participant's  Eligible  Spouse  (if  any) who is
entitled  under the Salaried  Plan to the  pre-retirement  spouse's  pension for
survivors of vested  terminated  Employees.  The amount of such Pension shall be
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3. If pursuant to this
Section 4.6(b) a Participant has Pre-Retirement  Spouse's coverage in effect for
his Eligible Spouse,  any Pension  calculated for the Participant  under Section
5.2(b)  shall be  reduced  for each  year  such  coverage  is in  effect  by the
applicable  percentage  set forth below (based on the  Participant's  age at the
time the coverage is in effect) with a pro rata  reduction  for any portion of a
year. No reduction shall be made for coverage in effect within the 90-day period
following a Participant's termination of employment. 


              Attained Age                  Annual Charge

               Up to 35                        .0%
               35 -- 39                        .075%
               40 -- 44                        .1%
               45 -- 49                        .175%
               50 -- 54                        .3%
               55 -- 59                        .5%
               60 -- 64                        .5%

     4.7  Vesting:   A  Participant  shall  be  fully  vested  in,  and  have  a
nonforfeitable right to, his Accrued Benefit at the time he becomes fully vested
in his accrued benefit under the Salaried Plan.

     4.8 Time of Payment:  The  distribution  of a PEP Pension to a  Participant
shall commence as of the time specified in Section 6.1.

     4.9 Cashout Distributions:

     (a) Distribution of Participant's  Pension:  If at a Participant's  Annuity
Starting Date the Actuarial  Equivalent lump sum value of the  Participant's PEP
Pension  is  equal  to or  less  than  $10,000,  the  Plan  Administrator  shall
distribute  to the  Participant  such  lump sum value of the  Participant's  PEP
Pension.

     (b) Distribution of Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension Benefit: If at the time
payments  under the Salaried Plan  commence to an Eligible  Spouse the Actuarial
Equivalent lump sum value of the PEP Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension to be paid
is equal to or less than $10,000, the Plan Administrator shall distribute to the
Eligible Spouse such lump sum value of the PEP Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension.
Any lump sum distributed under this section shall be in lieu of the Pension that
otherwise  would  be   distributable  to  the  Participant  or  Eligible  Spouse
hereunder.

     4.10 Coordination with Long Term Disability Plan: The terms of this section
apply  notwithstanding  the preceding  provisions  of this Article.  At any time
prior to  April 14,  1991,  a  Participant  shall not be  eligible  to receive a
Normal,  Early, Vested or Disability Pension for any month or period of time for
which he is eligible for, and receiving,  benefits under a long term  disability
plan maintained by an Employer.  However, a Participant's  Eligible Spouse shall
not be ineligible  for a  Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension or benefits  under a
Qualified  Joint and Survivor  Annuity  because the  Participant  was  receiving
benefits under a long term disability plan at the date of his death.

     4.11  Reemployment  of  Certain  Participants:  In the case of a current or
former  Participant  who is reemployed and is eligible to  reparticipate  in the
Salaried Plan after his Annuity  Starting  Date,  payment of his Pension will be
suspended  if payment of his Salaried  Plan pension is suspended  (or would have
been if it were already in pay status). Thereafter, his Pension shall recommence
at the time determined under Section 6.1 (even if the suspension of his Salaried
Plan pension ceases earlier).



                                    ARTICLE V

                          Amount of Retirement Pension


     When a Pension becomes payable to or on behalf of a Participant  under this
Plan,  the amount of such Pension shall be determined  under Section 5.1, 5.2 or
5.3  (whichever  is  applicable),  subject  to any  adjustments  required  under
Sections 4.6(b), 5.4 and 5.5.

     5.1 PEP Pension:

     (a) Same Form as Salaried Plan: If a Participant's  Pension will be paid in
the same form and will  commence  as of the same time as his  pension  under the
Salaried Plan, then his Pension hereunder shall be the difference between:

          (1) His Total  Pension  expressed  in such form and payable as of such
     time, minus

          (2) His Salaried Plan Pension expressed in such form and payable as of
     such time.

     (b) Different Form than Salaried Plan: If a  Participant's  Pension will be
paid in a different  form (whether in whole or in part) or will commence as of a
different  time than his pension under the Salaried  Plan,  his Pension shall be
the product of:

          (1) The amount of the  Participant's  Total  Pension  expressed in the
     form and payable as of such time as applies to his Pension under this Plan,
     multiplied by

          (2) A  fraction,  the  numerator  of which is the  value of his  Total
     Pension  reduced  by the  value  of his  Salaried  Plan  Pension,  and  the
     denominator  of  which  is the  value  of his  Total  Pension  (with  value
     determined on a reasonable and consistent  basis,  in the discretion of the
     Plan Administrator, with respect to similarly situated employees).

     (c)  Definitions:  The  following  definitions  apply for  purposes of this
section.

          (1) A Participant's "Total Pension" means the greater of:

               (i) The amount of the Participant's  pension determined under the
          terms of the Salaried Plan, but without regard to: (A) the limitations
          imposed  by  sections   401(a)(17)  and  415  of  the  Code  (as  such
          limitations are interpreted and applied under the Salaried Plan),  and
          (B) the  actuarial  adjustment  under  Section 5.5(d)  of the Salaried
          Plan; or

               (ii) The  amount  (if  any) of the  Participant's  PEP  Guarantee
          determined under Section 5.2.

     In making this comparison, the benefits in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above
shall be calculated with reference to the specific form and time of payment that
is applicable.  If the  applicable  form of payment is a lump sum, the Actuarial
Equivalent factors in Section 2.1(b)(2) shall apply for purposes of subparagraph
(i) in lieu of those in the Salaried  Plan. 



          (2) A  Participant's  "Salaried  Plan Pension" means the amount of the
     Participant's pension determined under the terms of the Salaried Plan.

     5.2 PEP Guarantee: A Participant who is eligible under subsection (a) below
shall be entitled to a PEP Guarantee  benefit  determined  under  subsection (b)
below. In the case of other Participants, the PEP Guarantee shall not apply.

     (a)  Eligibility:  A  Participant  shall be covered by this  section if the
Participant has 1988 pensionable  earnings from an Employer of at least $75,000.
For  purposes  of  this  section,   "1988   pensionable   earnings"   means  the
Participant's  remuneration for the 1988 calendar year, which was recognized for
benefit received under the Salaried Plan as in effect in 1988. "1988 pensionable
earnings"  does not  include  remuneration  from an entity  attributable  to any
period when that entity was not an Employer.

     (b) PEP  Guarantee  Formula:  The amount of a  Participant's  PEP Guarantee
shall be determined  under the applicable  formula in paragraph (1),  subject to
the special rules in paragraph (2).

          (1)  Formulas:  The  amount  of a  Participant's  Pension  under  this
     paragraph  shall be determined in accordance with  subparagraph  (i) below.
     However,   if  the  Participant   was  actively   employed  by  the  Tricon
     Organization  in a  classification  eligible for the Salaried Plan prior to
     July 1, 1975, the amount of his Pension under this  paragraph  shall be the
     greater  of the  amounts  determined  under  subparagraphs  (i)  and  (ii),
     provided  that  subparagraph  (ii)(B)  shall not apply in  determining  the
     amount of a Vested Pension.

               (i) Formula A: The Pension amount under this  subparagraph  shall
          be:

                    (A) 3 percent of the  Participant's  Highest Average Monthly
               Earnings for the first 10 years of Credited Service, plus

                    (B) 1 percent of the  Participant's  Highest Average Monthly
               Earnings for each year of Credited Service in excess of 10 years,
               less

                    (C)  1-2/3  percent  of  the  Participant's  Primary  Social
               Security  Amount  multiplied by years of Credited  Service not in
               excess of 30 years.

     In  determining  the amount of a Vested Pension under this  Formula A,  the
Pension shall first be  calculated on the basis of (I) the Credited  Service the
Participant  would have  earned had he  remained  in the employ of the  Employer
until his Normal  Retirement Age, and (II) his Highest Average Monthly  Earnings
and Primary Social  Security Amount at his Severance from Service Date, and then
shall be  reduced  by  multiplying  the  resulting  amount  by a  fraction,  the
numerator of which is the Participant's  actual years of Credited Service on his
Severance  from  Service  Date and the  denominator  of  which  is the  years of
Credited  Service  he would  have  earned  had he  remained  in the employ of an
Employer until his Normal Retirement Age.

               (ii) Formula B: The Pension amount under this subparagraph  shall
          be the greater of (A) or (B) below:

                    (A) 1-1/2 percent of Highest Average Monthly  Earnings times
               the number of years of Credited  Service,  less 50 percent of the
               Participant's Primary Social Security Amount, or 


                    (B) 3 percent of Highest Average Monthly  Earnings times the
               number  of years of  Credited  Service  up to 15  years,  less 50
               percent of the Participant's Primary Social Security Amount.

     In  determining  the amount of a Disability  Pension  under  Formula A or B
above,  the  Pension  shall be  calculated  on the  basis  of the  Participant's
Credited  Service  (determined  in  accordance  with  Section  3.3(d)(3)  of the
Salaried  Plan),  and his Highest  Average  Monthly  Earnings and Primary Social
Security Amount at the date of disability.

          (2)  Calculation:  The amount of the PEP Guarantee shall be determined
     pursuant to paragraph (1) above, subject to the following special rules:

               (i) Surviving Eligible Spouse's Annuity:  Subject to subparagraph
          (iii)  below  and  the  last  sentence  of this  subparagraph,  if the
          Participant  has an Eligible  Spouse and has  commenced  receipt of an
          Annuity under this section, the Participant's Eligible Spouse shall be
          entitled  to  receive a  survivor  annuity  equal to 50 percent of the
          Participant's  Annuity  under  this  section,  with  no  corresponding
          reduction in such Annuity for the  Participant.  Annuity payments to a
          surviving  Eligible  Spouse  shall begin on the first day of the month
          coincident  with or following  the  Participant's  death and shall end
          with the last  monthly  payment  due  prior to the  Eligible  Spouse's
          death.  If the Eligible  Spouse is more than 10 years younger than the
          Participant,  the survivor  benefit  payable  under this  subparagraph
          shall be adjusted as provided below.

                    (A) For each  full  year  more than 10 but less than 21 that
               the surviving  Eligible  Spouse is younger than the  Participant,
               the survivor  benefit  payable to such spouse shall be reduced by
               0.8 percent.

                    (B) For each  full  year  more  than 20 that  the  surviving
               Eligible  Spouse is younger  than the  Participant,  the survivor
               benefit  payable to such spouse shall be reduced by an additional
               0.4 percent.

               (ii)  Reductions:   The  following   reductions  shall  apply  in
          determining a Participant's PEP Guarantee.

                    (A) If the  Participant  will  receive  an Early  Retirement
               Pension,  the  payment  amount  shall be  reduced by 3/12ths of 1
               percent  for each month by which the  benefit  commencement  date
               precedes  the  date  the  Participant  would  attain  his  Normal
               Retirement Date.

                    (B) If the Participant is entitled to a Vested Pension,  the
               payment  amount shall be reduced to the  Actuarial  Equivalent of
               the  amount  payable at his Normal  Retirement  Date (if  payment
               commences  before such date), and the  Section 4.6(b)  reductions
               for any Pre-Retirement Spouse's coverage shall apply.

                    (C) This clause applies if the Participant  will receive his
               Pension  in a form that  provides  an  Eligible  Spouse  benefit,
               continuing for the life of the surviving spouse,  that is greater
               than that provided under subparagraph (i). In this instance,  the
               Participant's Pension under this section shall be reduced so that
               the  total  value of the  benefit  payable  on the  Participant's
               behalf  is the  Actuarial  Equivalent  of the  Pension  otherwise
               payable under the foregoing provisions of this section.



                    (D) This clause applies if the Participant  will receive his
               Pension  in a  form  that  provides  a  survivor  annuity  for  a
               beneficiary who is not his Eligible Spouse. In this instance, the
               Participant's Pension under this section shall be reduced so that
               the  total  value of the  benefit  payable  on the  Participant's
               behalf is the  Actuarial  Equivalent of a Single Life Annuity for
               the Participant's life.

                    (E) This clause applies if the Participant  will receive his
               Pension  in a Annuity  form that  includes  inflation  protection
               described in Section 6.2(b). In this instance,  the Participant's
               Pension  under  this  section  shall be reduced so that the total
               value of the benefit payable on the  Participant's  behalf is the
               Actuarial   Equivalent  of  the  elected   Annuity  without  such
               protection.

               (iii) Lump Sum Conversion:  The amount of the Retirement  Pension
          determined  under this  section  for a  Participant  whose  Retirement
          Pension  will be  distributed  in the form of a lump sum  shall be the
          Actuarial  Equivalent of the  Participant's  PEP Guarantee  determined
          under this  section,  taking into  account  the value of any  survivor
          benefit  under   subparagraph  (i)  above  and  any  early  retirement
          reductions under subparagraph (ii)(A) above.

     5.3 Amount of Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension:  The monthly amount of the
Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension  payable to a surviving  Eligible Spouse under
Section 4.6 shall be determined under subsection (a) below.

     (a) Calculation: An Eligible Spouse's Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension shall
be the difference between:

     (1) The Eligible Spouse's Total Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension, minus

     (2) The Eligible Spouse's Salaried Plan Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension.

     (b)  Definitions:  The  following  definitions  apply for  purposes of this
section.

     (1) An Eligible Spouse's "Total Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension" means the
greater of:

          (i)  The  amount  of the  Eligible  Spouse's  pre-retirement  spouse's
     pension determined under the terms of the Salaried Plan, but without regard
     to: (A) the limitations  imposed by sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code
     (as such  limitations are interpreted and applied under the Salaried Plan),
     and (B) the actuarial adjustment under Section 5.5(d) of the Salaried Plan;
     or

          (ii)  The  amount  (if any) of the  Eligible  Spouse's  PEP  Guarantee
     Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension determined under subsection (c).

     In making this comparison, the benefits in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above
shall be calculated with reference to the specific time of payment applicable to
the Eligible Spouse.

     (c) PEP Guarantee Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension: An Eligible Spouse's PEP
Guarantee Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension shall be determined in accordance with
paragraph (1) or (2) below,  whichever is applicable,  with reference to the PEP
Guarantee  (if any) that  would have been  available  to the  Participant  under
Section 5.2. 



          (1) Normal Rule: The  Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension  payable under
     this  paragraph  shall be equal to the  amount  that  would be payable as a
     survivor  annuity,  under a Qualified  Joint and Survivor  Annuity,  if the
     Participant had:

               (i) Separated  from service on the date of death (or, if earlier,
          his actual Severance from Service Date);

               (ii) Commenced a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity on the same
          date payments of the Qualified  Pre-Retirement Spouse's Pension are to
          commence; and

               (iii) Died on the day immediately following such commencement.

     If payment  of a  Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension  under  this  paragraph
commences  prior to the date  which  would  have been the  Participant's  Normal
Retirement Date,  appropriate reductions for early commencement shall be applied
to the  Qualified  Joint and  Survivor  Annuity  upon  which the  Pre-Retirement
Spouse's Pension is based.

          (2) Special  Rule for Active and Disabled  Employees:  Notwithstanding
     paragraph (1) above, the Pre-Retirement  Spouse's Pension paid on behalf of
     a Participant  described in Section 4.6(a) shall not be less than an amount
     equal to 25 percent of such Participant's PEP Guarantee (if any) determined
     under Section 5.2. For this purpose,  Credited  Service shall be determined
     as provided in Section  3.3(d)(2)  of the Salaried  Plan,  and the deceased
     Participant's  Highest  Average Monthly  Earnings,  Primary Social Security
     Amount  and  Covered  Compensation  shall be  determined  as of his date of
     death.  A  Pre-Retirement  Spouse's  Pension  under this  paragraph  is not
     reduced for early commencement.

     5.4 Certain  Adjustments:  Pensions determined under the foregoing sections
of this  Article are subject to  adjustment  as  provided in this  section.  For
purposes of this  section,  "specified  plan" shall mean the Salaried  Plan or a
nonqualified  pension plan similar to this Plan. A nonqualified  pension plan is
similar to this Plan if it is sponsored  by a member of the Tricon  Organization
and if its benefits are not based on participant pay deferrals (this category of
similar plans includes the PepsiCo Pension Equalization Plan).

     (a) Adjustments for Rehired Participants:  This subsection shall apply to a
current or former  Participant who is reemployed after his Annuity Starting Date
and whose benefit under the Salaried Plan is recalculated based on an additional
period  of  Credited  Service.  In the  event  of any  such  recalculation,  the
Participant's  PEP  Pension  shall  also be  recalculated  hereunder.  For  this
purpose,  the  PEP  Guarantee  under  Section  5.2 is  adjusted  for  in-service
distributions  and  prior  distributions  in the same  manner  as  benefits  are
adjusted under the Salaried Plan, but by taking into account benefits under this
Plan and any specified plans.

     (b) Adjustment for Increased Pension Under Other Plans: If the benefit paid
under a  specified  plan on  behalf  of a  Participant  is  increased  after PEP
benefits on his behalf have been determined (whether the increase is by order of
a court,  by agreement  of the plan  administrator  of the  specified  plan,  or
otherwise),  the PEP benefit for the Participant  shall be recalculated.  If the
recalculation  identifies an overpayment hereunder, the Plan Administrator shall
take  such  steps  as it deems  advisable  to  recover  the  overpayment.  It is
specifically  intended that there shall be no duplication of payments under this
Plan and any specified plans.



     5.5 Excludable Employment:  Effective for periods of employment on or after
June 30, 1997, an executive  classified as level 22 or above whose employment by
an Employer is for a limited duration  assignment shall not become entitled to a
benefit or to any increase in benefits in connection with such employment.




                                   ARTICLE VI

                              Distribution Options


     The  terms  of this  Article  govern  the  distribution  of  benefits  to a
Participant who becomes entitled to payment of a Pension under the Plan.

     6.1 Form and Timing of  Distributions:  This section  shall govern the form
and timing of  distributions  of PEP  Pensions  that begin on or after  March 1,
1992.  Plan  distributions  that begin before that date shall be governed by the
terms of the Prior Plan as in effect at the time of distribution. The provisions
of this Section 6.1 are in all cases  subject to the cashout  rules set forth in
Section 4.9.

     (a) No Advance Election: This subsection shall apply to a Participant:  (i)
who does not have an Advance  Election  in effect as of the close of business on
the day before his Retirement  Date, or (ii) who terminates  employment prior to
Retirement.  Subject  to the next  sentence,  a  Participant  described  in this
subsection  shall be paid his PEP  Pension in the same form and at the same time
as he is paid his Pension under the Salaried Plan. If a  Participant's  Salaried
Plan  Annuity  Starting  Date occurs while he is still an employee of the Tricon
Organization  (because  of the  time  of  payment  provisions  in  Code  section
401(a)(9)),  payment under the Plan shall not begin until the first of the month
next following the Participant's  Severance from Service Date. In this instance,
the form of payment  under  this Plan shall  remain  that  applicable  under the
Salaried Plan.

     (b)  Advance  Election  in  Effect:   This  subsection  shall  apply  to  a
Participant:  (i) who has an  Advance  Election  in  effect  as of the  close of
business on the day before his Retirement  Date, and (ii) whose  Retirement Date
is after  1993.  To be in effect,  an  Advance  Election  must meet the  advance
receipt and other requirements of Section 6.3(b).

          (1) Lump Sum Election: If a Participant covered by this subsection has
     an Advance  Election to receive a Single Lump Sum in effect as of the close
     of  business  on the day  before his  Retirement  Date,  the  Participant's
     Retirement  Pension under the Plan shall be paid as a Single Lump Sum as of
     the first of the month  coincident  with or next  following his  Retirement
     Date.

          (2) Annuity Election:  If a Participant covered by this subsection has
     an  Advance  Election  to  receive  an Annuity in effect as of the close of
     business  on  the  day  before  his  Retirement  Date,  the   Participant's
     Retirement  Pension under the Plan shall be paid in an Annuity beginning on
     the first of the month  coincident  with or next  following his  Retirement
     Date. The following provisions of this paragraph govern the form of Annuity
     payable in the case of a Participant described in this paragraph.

               (i) Salaried Plan  Election:  A Participant  who has a qualifying
          Salaried Plan election shall receive his distribution in the same form
          of Annuity the Participant  selected in such qualifying  Salaried Plan
          election. For this purpose, a "qualifying Salaried Plan election" is a
          written election of a form of payment by the Participant  that: (A) is
          currently  in  effect  under  the  Salaried  Plan as of the  close  of
          business  on the day before the  Participant's  Retirement  Date,  and
          (B) specifies an Annuity as the form of payment for all or part of the
          Participant's Retirement Pension under the Salaried Plan. For purposes
          of the preceding sentence, a Participant who elects a combination lump
          sum  and  Annuity  under  the  Salaried  Plan  is  considered  to have
          specified an Annuity for part of his Salaried Plan Pension.



               (ii)  PEP  Election:   A  Participant   who  is  not  covered  by
          subparagraph  (i) and who has a PEP Election in effect as of the close
          of business on the day before his  Retirement  Date shall  receive his
          distribution  in the form of Annuity the  Participant  selects in such
          PEP Election.

               (iii)  No PEP  Election:  A  Participant  who is not  covered  by
          subparagraph  (i) or (ii) above shall receive his  distribution in the
          form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity if he is married, or in
          the form of a Single Life Annuity if he is not  married.  For purposes
          of this subparagraph  (iii), a Participant shall be considered married
          if he is married on the day before his Retirement Date.

     6.2  Available  Forms  of  Payment:  The  forms  of  payment  set  forth in
subsections  (a) and (b) may be provided to any Participant who is entitled to a
Retirement Pension. The forms of payment for other Participants are set forth in
subsection  (c) below.  The provisions of this section are effective for Annuity
Starting Dates after 1989 and earlier  distributions  shall be governed by terms
of the Prior Plan as in effect at the time of distribution.

     (a) Basic Forms of Payment:  A  Participant's  Retirement  Pension shall be
distributed  in one of the  forms of  payment  listed  in this  subsection.  The
particular  form of payment  applicable to a Participant  shall be determined in
accordance  with Section 6.1.  Payments  shall commence on the date specified in
Section 6.1 and shall end on the date specified in this subsection.

          (1) Single Life Annuity Option:  A Participant may receive his Pension
     in the form of a Single  Life  Annuity,  which  provides  monthly  payments
     ending with the last payment due prior to his death.

          (2)  Survivor  Options:  A  Participant  may  receive  his  Pension in
     accordance with one of the following survivor options:

               (i) 100 Percent Survivor Option:  The Participant shall receive a
          reduced Pension payable for life, ending with the last monthly payment
          due prior to his death.  Payments  in the same  reduced  amount  shall
          continue after the  Participant's  death to his  beneficiary for life,
          beginning on the first day of the month  coincident  with or following
          the  Participant's  death and ending with the last monthly payment due
          prior to the beneficiary's death.

               (ii) 75 Percent Survivor Option:  The Participant shall receive a
          reduced Pension payable for life, ending with the last monthly payment
          due prior to his death.  Payments  in the amount of 75 percent of such
          reduced  Pension shall be continued after the  Participant's  death to
          his  beneficiary  for  life,  beginning  on the first day of the month
          coincident with or following the  Participant's  death and ending with
          the last monthly payment due prior to the beneficiary's death.

               (iii) 50 Percent Survivor Option: The Participant shall receive a
          reduced Pension payable for life, ending with the last monthly payment
          due prior to his death.  Payments  in the amount of 50 percent of such
          reduced  Pension shall be continued after the  Participant's  death to
          his  beneficiary  for  life,  beginning  on the first day of the month
          coincident with or following the  Participant's  death and ending with
          the last monthly  payment due prior to the  beneficiary's  death. A 50
          percent  survivor  option  under this  paragraph  shall be a Qualified
          Joint and Survivor  Annuity if the  Participant's  beneficiary  is his
          Eligible Spouse.



               (iv) Ten Years  Certain and Life Option:  The  Participant  shall
          receive a reduced  Pension  which  shall be  payable  monthly  for his
          lifetime but for not less than 120 months. If the retired  Participant
          dies before 120 payments have been made,  the monthly  Pension  amount
          shall  be  paid  for the  remainder  of the 120  month  period  to the
          Participant's  primary  beneficiary (or if the primary beneficiary has
          predeceased   the   Participant,    the    Participant's    contingent
          beneficiary).

          (3) Single Lump Sum Payment Option:  A Participant may receive payment
     of his Pension in the form of a Single Lump Sum payment.

          (4) Combination  Lump  Sum/Monthly  Benefit Option:  A Participant who
     does not have an Advance  Election  in effect may  receive a portion of his
     Pension in the form of a lump sum payment, and the remaining portion in the
     form of one of the monthly  benefits  described in  paragraphs  (1) and (2)
     above. The Pension is divided between the two forms of payment based on the
     whole number  percentages  designated by the Participant on a form provided
     for  this  purpose  by the  Plan  Administrator.  For  the  election  to be
     effective,  the sum of the two  percentages  designated by the  Participant
     must equal 100 percent.

               (i) The amount of the  Pension  paid in the form of a lump sum is
          determined by multiplying: (A) the amount that would be payable to the
          Participant as a Single Lump Sum payment if the  Participant's  entire
          benefit  were  payable in that form,  by (B) the  percentage  that the
          Participant has designated for receipt in the form of a lump sum.

               (ii) The  amount  of the  Pension  paid in the form of a  monthly
          benefit is  determined by  multiplying:  (A) the amount of the monthly
          benefit  elected by the  Participant,  determined in  accordance  with
          paragraph (1) or (2) above (whichever applies),  by (B) the percentage
          that the  Participant  has  designated  for  receipt  in the form of a
          monthly benefit.

     (b) Inflation Protection:  The following levels of inflation protection may
be provided to any Participant  who is entitled to a Retirement  Pension (except
to the extent such Pension is paid as a lump sum).

          (1) 5 Percent Inflation  Protection:  A Participant's  monthly benefit
     shall be initially reduced,  but thereafter shall be increased if inflation
     in the prior year exceeds 5 percent.  The amount of the  increase  shall be
     the difference between inflation in the prior year and 5 percent.

          (2) 7 Percent Inflation  Protection:  A Participant's  monthly benefit
     shall be initially reduced,  but thereafter shall be increased if inflation
     in the prior year exceeds 7 percent.  The amount of the  increase  shall be
     the difference between inflation in the prior year and 7 percent.

     Benefits  shall be subject to increase in accordance  with this  subsection
each January 1, beginning with the second January 1 following the  Participant's
Annuity  Starting  Date.  The  amount of  inflation  in the prior  year shall be
determined  based on inflation in the 12-month  period ending on September 30 of
such  year,  with  inflation  measured  in the same  manner  as  applies  on the
Effective Date for adjusting Social Security benefits for changes in the cost of
living.  Inflation protection that is in effect shall carry over to any survivor
benefit  payable on behalf of a  Participant,  and shall  increase the otherwise
applicable  survivor benefit as provided above. Any election by a Participant to
receive  inflation  protection  shall be irrevocable by such  Participant or his
surviving beneficiary.




     (c) Available  Options for Vested Benefits:  The forms of payment available
for a  Participant  with a Vested  Pension  are a Qualified  Joint and  Survivor
Annuity for married  Participants and a Single Life Annuity for both married and
unmarried  Participants.  The applicable  form of payment shall be determined in
accordance with Section 6.1(a).

     6.3 Procedures  for  Elections:  This section sets forth the procedures for
making Advance Elections and PEP Elections.

     (a) In  General:  To qualify as an Advance  Election  or PEP  Election  for
purposes  of Section  6.1,  an  election  must be made in  writing,  on the form
designated  by the Plan  Administrator,  and must be signed by the  Participant.
These  requirements  also apply to any  revocations of such  elections.  Spousal
consent is not required for any election (or  revocation of election)  under the
Plan.

     (b) Advance Election:  To qualify as an Advance Election,  an election must
be made under this Plan on or after the  Effective  Date (or must have been made
under  the  Prior  Plan on or after  July  15,  1993)  and  meet  the  following
requirements.

          (1) Election:  The Participant shall designate on the Advance Election
     form whether the  Participant  elects to take his Pension in the form of an
     Annuity or a Single Lump Sum.

          (2)  Receipt  by Plan  Administrator:  The  Advance  Election  must be
     received by the Plan  Administrator  before the start of the calendar  year
     containing the Participant's  Retirement Date, and at least 6 months before
     that  Retirement  Date. An election  that meets the foregoing  requirements
     shall remain effective until it is changed or revoked.

          (3) Change or Revocation of Election: A Plan Participant may change an
     Advance  Election  by  filing  a new  Election  that  meets  the  foregoing
     requirements.  A Plan  Participant  may revoke an Advance  Election only by
     filing a revocation that is received by the Plan  Administrator  before the
     start of the calendar year  containing  the Plan  Participant's  Retirement
     Date, and at least 6 months before that Retirement Date.

     Any Advance  Election by a Participant  shall be void if the Participant is
not entitled to a Retirement Pension.

     (c) PEP Election:  A PEP Election may only be made by a Participant who has
an Advance Election to receive an Annuity in effect at the time his PEP Election
is  received  by the Plan  Administrator.  In  determining  whether  an  Advance
Election is in effect for this  purpose,  the  advance  receipt  requirement  of
subsection (b)(2) shall be considered met if it will be met by the Participant's
proposed Retirement Date.

          (1) Election: The Participant shall designate on the PEP Election form
     the Annuity form of benefit the Participant selects from those described in
     Section 6.2,  including the Participant's  choice of inflation  protection,
     subject  to the  provisions  of  this  Article VI.  The  forms  of  payment
     described in Section 6.2(a)(3) and (4) are not available  pursuant to a PEP
     Election.

          (2)  Receipt  by the  Plan  Administrator:  The PEP  Election  must be
     received  by the Plan  Administrator  no  earlier  than 90 days  before the
     Participant's  Retirement  Date, and no later than the close of business on
     the day before the  Participant's  Retirement  Date. The Participant  shall
     furnish proof of the age of his beneficiary  (including his Eligible Spouse
     if  applicable),   to  the  Plan   Administrator  by  the  day  before  



the  Participant's  Retirement Date, for any form of payment which is subject to
reduction in accordance with subsection 6.2(c) above.

     A Participant may change his PEP Election by filing a new Election with the
Plan Administrator that meets the foregoing requirements.  The Participant's PEP
Election  shall become  effective at the close of business on the day before the
Participant's  Retirement Date. Any PEP Election by a Participant  shall be void
if the Participant does not have an Advance Election in effect at such time.

     (d) Elections Rules for Annuity Starting Dates: When amounts become payable
to a Participant in accordance  with Article IV, they shall be payable as of the
Participant's Annuity Starting Date and the election procedures (in this section
and  Sections  6.1 and  6.5)  shall  apply  to all of the  Participant's  unpaid
accruals as of such Annuity Starting Date, with the following exception.  In the
case of a Participant who is rehired after his initial Annuity Starting Date and
who (i) is  currently  receiving  an Annuity  that  remained  in pay status upon
rehire,  or (ii) was  previously  paid a lump  sum  distribution  (other  than a
cashout distribution described in Section 4.9(a)), the Participant's  subsequent
Annuity Starting Date (as a result of his termination of reemployment),  and the
election  procedures at such subsequent  Annuity Starting Date, shall apply only
to the portion of his benefit that accrues after his rehire.  Any prior accruals
that remain to be paid as of the Participant's  subsequent Annuity Starting Date
shall  continue  to be  payable in  accordance  with the  elections  made at his
initial Annuity Starting Date.

For  purposes of this  section,  an  election  shall be treated as received on a
particular day if it is:  (A) postmarked  that day, or (B) actually  received by
the Plan  Administrator  on that day.  Delivery under clause (B) must be made by
the close of business, which time is to be determined by the Plan Administrator.

     6.4 Special Rules for Survivor Options:

     (a) Effect of Certain Deaths:  If a Participant  makes a PEP Election for a
form of  payment  described  in Section  6.2(a)(2)  and the  Participant  or his
beneficiary (beneficiaries in the case of Section 6.2(a)(2)(iv)) dies before the
PEP Election  becomes  effective,  the  election  shall be  disregarded.  If the
Participant  dies  after  such PEP  Election  becomes  effective  but before his
Retirement  Pension actually  commences,  the election shall be given effect and
the amount payable to his surviving  Eligible Spouse or other  beneficiary shall
commence on the first day of the month  following  his death (any back  payments
due  the  Participant  shall  be  payable  to  his  estate).  In the  case  of a
Participant   who  has  elected  the  form  of  payment   described  in  Section
6.2(a)(2)(iv),  if such Participant  dies: (i) after the PEP Election has become
effective, (ii) without a surviving primary or contingent beneficiary, and (iii)
before  receiving  120 payments  under the form of payment,  then the  remaining
payments  due under  such  form of  payment  shall be paid to the  Participant's
estate. If payments have commenced under such form of payment to a Participant's
primary or contingent  beneficiary and such beneficiary dies before payments are
completed,  then the remaining  payments due under such form of payment shall be
paid to such beneficiary's estate.

     (b) Nonspouse  Beneficiaries:  If a  Participant's  beneficiary  is not his
Eligible Spouse, he may not elect:

          (1) The 100 percent survivor option described in Section  6.2(a)(2)(i)
     if his nonspouse beneficiary is more than 10 years younger than he is, or

          (2) The 75 percent survivor option described in Section  6.2(a)(2)(ii)
     if his nonspouse  beneficiary is more than 19 years younger than he is. 


     6.5  Designation of  Beneficiary:  A Participant who has elected to receive
all or part of his pension in a form of payment that includes a survivor  option
shall designate a beneficiary who will be entitled to any amounts payable on his
death.  Such  designation  shall be made on a PEP  Election  Form or an approved
election form filed under the Salaried  Plan,  whichever is  applicable.  In the
case of the survivor option described in Section 6.2(a)(2)(iv),  the Participant
shall  be  entitled  to  name  both  a  primary  beneficiary  and  a  contingent
beneficiary.  A Participant  (whether  active or former) shall have the right to
change or  revoke  his  beneficiary  designation  at any time  prior to when his
election is finally  effective.  The  designation  of any  beneficiary,  and any
change or revocation thereof,  shall be made in accordance with rules adopted by
the Plan Administrator.  A beneficiary designation shall not be effective unless
and until filed with the Plan Administrator (or for periods before the Effective
Date,  the Plan  Administrator  under  the Prior  Plan).  If no  beneficiary  is
properly  designated,  then a  Participant's  election  of a  survivor's  option
described in Section 6.2(a)(2) shall not be given effect.



                                   ARTICLE VII

                                 Administration

     7.1 Authority to Administer  Plan:  The Plan shall be  administered  by the
Plan  Administrator,  which shall have the  authority to interpret  the Plan and
issue such regulations as it deems  appropriate.  The Plan  Administrator  shall
maintain  Plan  records  and  make  benefit  calculations,  and  may  rely  upon
information   furnished  it  by  the  Participant  in  writing,   including  the
Participant's  current  mailing  address,  age  and  marital  status.  The  Plan
Administrator's  interpretations,  determinations,  regulations and calculations
shall be final and binding on all persons and parties concerned. The Company, in
its  capacity as Plan  Administrator  or in any other  capacity,  shall not be a
fiduciary of the Plan for purposes of ERISA, and any restrictions  that apply to
a party in interest under section 406 of ERISA shall not apply to the Company or
otherwise under the Plan.

     7.2 Facility of Payment:  Whenever, in the Plan Administrator's  opinion, a
person  entitled  to receive  any  payment of a benefit or  installment  thereof
hereunder is under a legal disability or is incapacitated in any way so as to be
unable to manage his financial affairs, the Plan Administrator may make payments
to such person or to the legal representative of such person for his benefit, or
the Plan  Administrator  may apply the payment for the benefit of such person in
such manner as it considers  advisable.  Any payment of a benefit or installment
thereof in  accordance  with the  provisions of this section shall be a complete
discharge of any liability  for the making of such payment under the  provisions
of the Plan.

     7.3 Claims  Procedure:  The Plan  Administrator  shall  have the  exclusive
discretionary  authority to construe and to  interpret  the Plan,  to decide all
questions  of  eligibility  for  benefits  and to  determine  the amount of such
benefits,  and its  decisions  on such  matters are final and  conclusive.  This
discretionary  authority is intended to be  absolute,  and in any case where the
extent  of this  discretion  is in  question,  the Plan  Administrator  is to be
accorded the maximum  discretion  possible.  Any exercise of this  discretionary
authority  shall be reviewed by a court,  arbitrator or other tribunal under the
arbitrary and capricious standard (i.e., the abuse of discretion standard).  If,
pursuant to this discretionary authority, an assertion of any right to a benefit
by or on behalf of a Participant or  beneficiary is wholly or partially  denied,
the Plan Administrator,  or a party designated by the Plan  Administrator,  will
provide such  claimant  within the 90-day  period  following  the receipt of the
claim by the Plan Administrator, a comprehensible written notice setting forth:

     (a) The specific reason or reasons for such denial;

     (b) Specific  reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is
based;

     (c) A description of any additional  material or information  necessary for
the  claimant  to submit to  perfect  the claim and an  explanation  of why such
material or information is necessary; and

     (d) A description  of the Plan's claim review  procedure.  The claim review
procedure  is  available  upon  written  request  by the  claimant  to the  Plan
Administrator,  or the  designated  party,  within 60 days after  receipt by the
claimant of written notice of the denial of the claim, and includes the right to
examine  pertinent  documents  and submit  issues and comments in writing to the
Plan Administrator, or the designated party. The decision on review will be made
within 60 days after  receipt of the request for  review,  unless  circumstances
warrant an extension of time not to exceed an additional  60 days,  and shall be
in writing and drafted in a manner  calculated to be understood by the claimant,
and include  specific  reasons for the decision with  references to the specific
Plan provisions on which the decision is based. 



If within a reasonable period of time after the Plan receives the claim asserted
by the Participant,  the Plan  Administrator,  or the designated party, fails to
provide a  comprehensible  written  notice  stating  that the claim is wholly or
partially denied and setting forth the information  described in (a) through (d)
above,  the claim shall be deemed denied.  Once the claim is deemed denied,  the
Participant  shall be  entitled  to the  claim  review  procedure  described  in
subsection  (d) above.  Such review  procedure  shall be available  upon written
request by the  claimant to the Plan  Administrator,  or the  designated  party,
within 60 days after the claim is deemed  denied.  Any claim under the Plan that
is  reviewed  by a court  shall be  reviewed  solely on the basis of the  record
before the Plan Administrator at the time it made its determination.

     7.4 Effect of Specific  References:  Specific references in the Plan to the
Plan  Administrator's  discretion  shall  create  no  inference  that  the  Plan
Administrator's discretion in any other respect, or in connection with any other
provision, is less complete or broad.



                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  Miscellaneous

     8.1  Nonguarantee of Employement:  Nothing  contained in this Plan shall be
construed as a contract of employment  between an Employer and any Employee,  or
as a right of any Employee to be continued in the employment of an Employer,  or
as a limitation of the right of an Employer to discharge  any of its  Employees,
with or without cause.

     8.2 Nonalienation of Benefits: Benefits payable under the Plan or the right
to receive future  benefits under the Plan shall not be subject in any manner to
anticipation,  alienation,  sale,  transfer,  assignment,  pledge,  encumbrance,
charge,  garnishment,  execution,  or  levy of any  kind,  either  voluntary  or
involuntary,  and any attempt to anticipate,  alienate, sell, transfer,  assign,
pledge,  encumber,  charge or otherwise dispose of any right to benefits payable
hereunder,  including any assignment or alienation in connection with a divorce,
separation, child support or similar arrangement, shall be null and void and not
binding on the  Company.  The Company  shall not in any manner be liable for, or
subject  to,  the debts,  contracts,  liabilities,  engagements  or torts of any
person entitled to benefits hereunder.

     8.3 Unfunded  Plan: The Company's  obligations  under the Plan shall not be
funded, but shall constitute  liabilities by the Company payable when due out of
the Company's  general funds.  To the extent the Participant or any other person
acquires a right to receive  benefits  under this Plan,  such right  shall be no
greater than the rights of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.

     8.4 Action by the Company: Any action by the Company under this Plan may be
made by the Board of Directors of the Company or by the  Compensation  Committee
of the Board of Directors, with a report of any actions taken by it to the Board
of  Directors.  In  addition,  such  action  may be made by any other  person or
persons duly authorized by resolution of said Board to take such action.

     8.5  Indemnification:  Unless the Board of Directors  of the Company  shall
determine otherwise,  the Company shall indemnify,  to the full extent permitted
by law, any employee  acting in good faith within the scope of his employment in
carrying out the administration of the Plan.



                                   ARTICLE IX

                            Amendment and Termination

     9.1 Continuation of the Plan: While the Company and the Employers intend to
continue the Plan indefinitely,  they assume no contractual obligation as to its
continuance.  In accordance  with Section 8.4, the Company  hereby  reserves the
right, in its sole discretion,  to amend,  terminate, or partially terminate the
Plan at any time provided,  however, that no such amendment or termination shall
adversely affect the amount of benefit to which a Participant or his beneficiary
is  already  entitled  under  Article  IV on  the  date  of  such  amendment  or
termination,  unless the Participant becomes entitled to an amount of equivalent
value to such  benefit  under  another  plan or practice  adopted by the Company
(using such actuarial  assumptions  as the Company may apply in its  discretion.
Specific forms of payment are not protected under the preceding sentence.

     9.2 Amendments: The Company may, in its sole discretion, make any amendment
or  amendments  to this  Plan  from time to time,  with or  without  retroactive
effect,   including  any   amendment  or   amendments  to  eliminate   available
distribution  options  under Article VI hereof at any time before the earlier of
the  Participant's  Annuity  Starting Date under this Plan or under the Salaried
Plan. An Employer (other than the Company) shall not have the right to amend the
Plan.

     9.3  Termination:  The Company  may  terminate  the Plan,  either as to its
participation or as to the  participation of one or more Employers.  If the Plan
is terminated  with respect to fewer than all of the  Employers,  the Plan shall
continue in effect for the benefit of the Employees of the remaining Employers.



                                    ARTICLE X

                              ERISA Plan Structure

     This Plan document  encompasses  three separate plans within the meaning of
ERISA, as are set forth in subsections (a), (b) and (c).

     (a) Excess  Benefit  Plan:  An excess  benefit  plan  within the meaning of
section 3(36) of ERISA,  maintained solely for the purpose of providing benefits
for Salaried Plan  participants in excess of the limitations on benefits imposed
by section 415 of the Code.

     (b) Excess  Compensation  High Hat Plan: A plan  maintained  by the Company
primarily for the purpose of providing deferred  compensation for a select group
of management  or highly  compensated  employees  within the meaning of sections
201(2) and  401(a)(1) of ERISA.  This plan  provides  benefits for Salaried Plan
participants in excess of the limitations  imposed by section  401(a)(17) of the
Code on benefits under the Salaried Plan (after taking into account any benefits
under the excess benefit plan).  For ERISA reporting  purposes,  this portion of
PEP may be referred to as the Tricon Pension Equalization Plan I.

     (c) Grandfather  High Hat Plan: A plan maintained by the Company  primarily
for the  purpose  of  providing  deferred  compensation  for a  select  group of
management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of sections 201(2)
and  401(a)(1)  of  ERISA.  This plan  provides  grandfather  benefits  to those
Salaried Plan participants described in section 5.2(a) hereof, by preserving for
them the pre-1989 level of benefit  accrual that was in effect before January 1,
1989 (after taking into account any benefits  under the excess  benefit plan and
excess compensation high hat plan). For ERISA reporting  purposes,  this portion
of PEP shall be referred to as the Tricon Pension Equalization Plan II.

Benefits under this Plan shall be allocated first to the excess benefit plan, to
the extent of benefits  paid for the purpose  indicated  in (a) above;  then any
remaining benefits shall be allocated to the excess  compensation high hat plan,
to the extent of benefits paid for the purpose  indicated in (b) above; then any
remaining  benefits shall be allocated to the grandfather  high hat plan.  These
three plans are severable for any and all purposes as directed by the Company.




                                   ARTICLE XI

                                 Applicable Law

     All questions  pertaining to the  construction,  validity and effect of the
Plan shall be  determined  in accordance  with the  provisions of ERISA.  In the
event ERISA is not  applicable  or does not preempt  state law,  the laws of the
state of North Carolina shall govern.

     If any  provision  of this Plan is, or is  hereafter  declared to be, void,
voidable,  invalid or otherwise unlawful, the remainder of the Plan shall not be
affected thereby.





                                   ARTICLE XII

                                    Signature

     As of the Effective  Date,  the above  restated Plan is hereby  adopted and
approved, this 6th day of October, 1997.


                                   TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.



                                   By:  /s/ Michael Theilmann
                                        ------------------------------










                                    APPENDIX

                                    Foreword


     This Appendix sets forth  additional  provisions  applicable to individuals
specified  in the  Articles  of this  Appendix.  In any  case  where  there is a
conflict  between the Appendix and the main text of the Plan, the Appendix shall
govern.




                                    ARTICLE A

                           Accruals for 1993 and 1994

     This Article A of the  Appendix  shall be effective on the date the Plan is
adopted.

     A.1 Accruals for 1993 and 1994: This section shall apply to any individual:
(i) who was a Salaried Plan Participant and employed by the PepsiCo Organization
(as defined  below) on December 31, 1993,  (ii) whose  Salaried Plan Pension was
vested  during  1993 (or would have become  vested in 1994 if his Service  after
1993  included  the assumed  period of  continued  service  specified  in (a)(1)
below),  and (iii) whose  minimum  1993 Pension in  subsection  (a) below is not
derived solely from that portion of the Plan  described in (c) of Article X.  In
determining  the  amount  of the  1993  and 1994  Pension  amounts  for any such
individual,  the  provisions  set forth in  subsections  (a) and (b) below shall
apply.

     (a) Minimum 1993  Pension:  Any  individual  who is covered by this section
shall accrue a minimum 1993 Pension as of December 31, 1993. In determining  the
amount of such individual's minimum 1993 Pension, the following shall apply.

          (1) An individual's Service and Credited Service as of the end of 1993
     shall be assumed to equal the  respective  Service and Credited  Service he
     would  have  if  his  Service   continued   through   December   31,  1994.
     Notwithstanding  the preceding  sentence,  the assumed  period of continued
     Service shall be less to the extent PepsiCo,  Inc.'s human resource records
     on December  31, 1993  reflected a scheduled  termination  date in 1994 for
     such individual. In this case, the individual's assumed period of continued
     service  shall  be the  portion  of 1994  that  ends  with  such  scheduled
     termination date.

          (2) An individual's  Highest Average Monthly Earnings as of the end of
     1993 shall be adjusted by the actuary's  salary scale  assumption  which is
     used under the  Salaried  Plan,  so that they  equal the amount  such scale
     projects  for the  individual  as of the end of 1994.  Notwithstanding  the
     preceding sentence, the following special rules shall apply.

               (i) A higher  salary  scale  assumption  shall be used for anyone
          whose  projected 1994 earnings as reflected on the "Special PEP Salary
          Scale" of the PepsiCo  Benefits  Department  on December 31, 1993 were
          higher  than  would  be  assumed  under  the  first  sentence  of this
          paragraph.  In this case,  the  individual's  1993  earnings  shall be
          adjusted using such higher salary scale.

               (ii) In the case of an individual whose assumed period of service
          under  paragraph  (1)  above  is less  than all of  1994,  the  salary
          adjustment  under the preceding  provisions of this paragraph shall be
          reduced  to the  amount  that  would  apply if the  individual  had no
          earnings after his scheduled termination date.

          (3) An  individual's  attained  age as of the  end of  1993  shall  be
     assumed  to be the age he would  have at the end of the  assumed  period of
     continued service applicable under paragraph (1) above.

     Any  individual  who is covered by this  section,  and who is not otherwise
vested  as of  December  31,  1993,  shall be vested as of such date in both his
Pension  (determined  without  regard to this  subsection)  and his minimum 1993
Pension.  For  purposes of this  subsection,  Code section  401(a)(17)  shall be
applied in 1993 by giving effect to the  amendments to such Code section made by
the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation  Amendments of 1993. 



     (b)  Determination  of 1994 Accrual:  If a participant in the Salaried Plan
accrues a minimum 1993 Pension under subsection (a) above, the amount of any PEP
Pension  that  accrues  thereafter  (under the Prior Plan or this Plan) shall be
only the amount by which the PEP Pension that would  otherwise  accrue for years
after 1993 exceeds his minimum 1993 Pension under subsection (a).

     (c) PepsiCo Organization:  As of the time in question, the controlled group
of organizations  of which PepsiCo,  Inc. was a part, as defined by Code section
414 and regulations issued thereunder.



                                    Article B

                     Transferred and Transition Individuals

     All Transferred Individuals (as defined below) who participate in the Prior
Plan immediately  prior to the Effective Date shall be Participants in this Plan
as of the Effective Date. The spinoff of this Plan from the Prior Plan shall not
result in a break in the Transferred Individual's or the Transition Individual's
(as defined below) Service or Credited Service.

     Notwithstanding  anything in the Plan to the  contrary,  and as provided in
Section 2.4 of the Agreement (as defined below), all service,  all compensation,
and all other benefit-affecting determinations for Transferred Individuals that,
as of the Close of the  Distribution  Date, were recognized under the Prior Plan
for  periods  immediately  before  such  date,  shall as of the  Effective  Date
continue to receive  full  recognition,  credit and  validity and shall be taken
into account under this Plan as if such items occurred  under this Plan,  except
to  the  extent  that   duplication   of  benefits   would  result.   Similarly,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the benefits of Transition
Individuals shall be determined in accordance with section 8.4 of the Agreement.

     The Plan  Administrator  may reduce  benefits under this Plan to the extent
that it determines such reduction is appropriate to avoid or reduce  duplication
of benefits.

     With respect to events or  determinations  occurring  before the  Effective
Date,  a  reference  herein  to the  Plan  Administrator  shall  mean  the  plan
administrator  under the Prior Plan in any case deemed  appropriate  by the Plan
Administrator under this Plan.

     For purposes of this Article,  the following  definitions  shall apply. The
term  "Agreement"  shall  mean  the 1997  Employee  Programs  Agreement  between
PepsiCo,  inc.  and Tricon  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  The terms  "Close of the
Distribution Date," "Transferred Individuals" and "Transition Individuals" shall
take the definitions given those terms in the Agreement.

 




                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.15







                                                     October 20, 1997



Mr. Andrall E. Pearson
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc.
1441 Gardiner Lane
Louisville, KY  40213

Dear Andy:

         A letter agreement dated June 25, 1997 ("June Agreement") confirmed the
terms and conditions of your employment as Chairman and Chief Executive  Officer
of Tricon  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  ("Tricon").  This letter  agreement  (the
"Amendment")  revises the June Agreement in certain respects.  These changes are
necessary to permit  Tricon to receive a full tax  deduction  for both the bonus
payable  to you at the end of 1997 and any  gains  on your  stock  options.  The
numbering of the paragraphs below corresponds to the paragraph  numbering in the
June Agreement.

         3. Compensation.  The one-time bonus of $850,000 that was to be paid at
year end 1997  shall be paid  after you are no longer  employed  by  Tricon.  To
adjust this bonus for deferred  payment,  it shall be treated in all respects as
if it had been  deferred  until  such time  under  the  Discount  Stock  Plan in
Tricon's  Executive  Income  Deferral  Program.  The  Compensation  Committee of
Tricon's Board of Directors, however, shall retain the discretion to shorten the
period of deferral and to pay the one-time bonus (adjusted for deferred payment)
prior to your termination of employment.

         4. Long-Term Incentives. The exercise price for each of your options to
purchase  1,050,000  shares  of  Tricon  Common  Stock  shall be the mean of the
closing  prices for Tricon  Common  Stock for the fifth  through  the  twentieth
trading days after  Tricon's  spin-off from PepsiCo,  Inc., but such price shall
not be less than the mean of the high and low sales  prices  for  Tricon  Common
Stock on the grant date.






                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

                                                                   June 25, 1997

Mr. Andrall E. Pearson
Clayton Dubilier & Rice, Inc.
375 Park Avenue, 18th Floor
New York, New York  10152

Dear Andy:

     This letter agreement (the  "Agreement")  confirms the terms and conditions
of your  employment  as Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer of TRICON  Global
Restaurants,  Inc.  ("TRICON"),  a newly formed North Carolina  corporation  and
wholly owned subsidiary of PepsiCo,  Inc.  ("PepsiCo").  TRICON was formed to be
the parent company for PepsiCo's quick service restaurant businesses. Subject to
certain  conditions,  in  October  1997,  PepsiCo  intends to spin off TRICON to
PepsiCo's shareholders (the "Spin-off").

     1.  Employment  and Term.  You are hereby  employed as  Chairman  and Chief
Executive Officer of TRICON for a term of three years,  commencing July 1, 1997.
Such term may, however, be modified pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof.

     2. Duties.  Prior to the Spin-off,  you shall be responsible  for assisting
with and  facilitating  the Spin-off,  including,  without  limitation,  matters
relating to TRICON's capital structure,  staffing,  investor  relations,  public
relations, benefits, compensation and operating structure. You will perform such
duties  consistent  with the  direction  and  decisions  of  PepsiCo's  Board of
Directors and senior management.

     At and after the  Spin-off,  you shall have  supervision  of the  policies,
business and affairs of TRICON, and such other powers and duties as are commonly
incident to the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.

     3. Compensation.  As compensation for your services hereunder, you shall be
paid a salary of $900,000 per year, in equal bi-weekly installments.
  
     You shall  also  receive  annual  incentive  compensation  in amounts to be
determined by the Compensation  Committee (the  "Committee") of the TRICON Board
of Directors based on performance objectives  established by the Committee.  The
target  incentive  compensation  for each year of this Agreement is $900,000 and
bonus awards may range from zero to 200% of such target.  However, the bonus for
1997 (payable in early 1998) shall be $450,000. In addition,  you shall be paid,
by year end 1997, a one-time bonus of $850,000.

     4. Long-Term  Incentives.  As soon as practicable  after the Spin-off,  the
Committee  shall  grant to you options to  purchase  1,050,000  shares of TRICON
Common Stock, par value $.05 per share (the "Options"). Such grant shall be made
pursuant to a separate option  agreement (the "Option  Agreement"),  the form of
which is annexed hereto as Exhibit A. Subject to the terms and conditions of the
Option  Agreement,  350,000  Options shall vest on each of July 1, 1998, July 1,
1999 and July 1, 




2000, and, once vested,  shall be exercisable for a period of ten years from the
date of  grant.  The  exercise  price for all  Options  shall be the mean of the
closing  prices for TRICON  Common  Stock for the fifth  through  the  twentieth
trading day after the Spin-off.

     5.  Modification  of Term.  You  agree  that,  in order to  effect an early
succession plan, the Committee may reduce the term of your employment  hereunder
and, in connection  therewith,  have the discretion to vest all unvested Options
granted pursuant to the Option Agreement, and pay 100% of the special retirement
payment provided for in Paragraph 6 hereof.

     6.  Special  Retirement  Payment.  TRICON  shall make a special  $1,000,000
retirement  payment to you at the conclusion of your three-year  employment term
hereunder or such shorter term as may be determined by the Committee pursuant to
Paragraph 5. In the event of death or total  disability  (as  determined  by the
Committee),   you,  your  designated  beneficiary  or  estate  shall  receive  a
retirement  payment which is in  proportion  to your service  during the term of
this Agreement.

     7. Benefits and Perquisites.

          a. TRICON shall reimburse you for dues, initiation fees and capital or
     other special assessments at a country club of your choice.

          b. TRICON shall  reimburse you for expenses,  not to exceed $5,000 per
     year, for personal financial planning.

          c. TRICON shall  provide you with the use of an executive  automobile,
     and  reimburse  expenses  related to such  automobile  consistent  with the
     PepsiCo executive car program for its most senior executives.

          d. You may  participate in any income  deferral and long-term  savings
     (401(k)) plans, as well as any medical, dental, life insurance,  disability
     insurance or other  benefit or welfare plans adopted by TRICON with respect
     to its full-time employees.

     8.  Death or  Disability.  In the  event of your  death or  disability  (as
determined  by the  Committee),  no  additional  amounts shall be due or payable
hereunder excepts as provided in Paragraph 6 and in your Option  Agreement,  and
except for payments under TRICON's insurance programs.

     9.  Non-Competition.  You agree that,  while employed by TRICON,  and for a
period of two years following the end of such employment, you shall not directly
or indirectly  participate or have any interest in, or own,  manage,  operate or
control,  or otherwise  engage,  invest or  participate  in any business that is
competitive with the business  conducted by TRICON or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates.  The  provisions  of this  Paragraph  9 shall  not  apply  to  stock
ownership  in a  publicly  traded  company  which is not in excess of 5% of that
company's outstanding equity securities.

     10.  Notices.  All  notices,  requests,  demands  and other  communications
hereunder  shall be in writing and shall be  telecopied,  delivered by overnight
delivery  service or mailed to the intended  recipient at the address  specified
below,  or at such other address as either party may hereafter  designate to the
other.





                  a.       If to Mr. Pearson, to:

                           Mr. Andrall E. Pearson
                           41 Meadow Wood Drive
                           Greenwich, CT  06830

                  b.       If to TRICON, to:

                           TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                           c/o PepsiCo, Inc.
                           700 Anderson Hill Road
                           Purchase, New York  10577
                           Attention:  Secretary

     11. Entire Agreement.  This Agreement  contains all the  understandings and
representations   between  you  and  TRICON  concerning  your  employment,   and
supersedes all agreements and understandings,  whether oral or written,  between
TRICON and you with respect to such matters.

     12. Binding  Agreement.  This Agreement  shall be binding upon and shall be
for the benefit of TRICON, it successors and assigns,  and you and, in the event
of your death,  your estate or legal  representative.  No rights or  obligations
under this  Agreement can be assigned or  transferred by you without the express
prior written consent of TRICON.

     13.  Amendment:  Waiver.  No  provision of this  Agreement  may be amended,
modified, supplemented or waived unless such amendment, modification, supplement
or waiver is agreed to in writing,  and signed by you and an authorized employee
of TRICON.  TRICON is not  authorized  to amend this  Agreement  in any material
manner except as directed by the Committee.

     14.  Governing Law. This Agreement is deemed a contract made under, and for
all purposes to be governed by and construed in accordance with, the laws of the
State of New York, without reference to principles of conflicts of laws.

     Please  indicate your  understanding  and  acceptance of this  Agreement by
signing as indicated below. Very truly yours,

                                   TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

                                   By:      /s/ Lawrence F. Dickie
                                            ------------------------ 
                                            Lawrence F. Dickie
                                            Vice President & Secretary

AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:

/s/ Andrall E. Pearson
- -------------------------


                                                                       EXHIBIT A

                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT  made as of the  day of ,  1997,  by and  between  TRICON  Global
Restaurants,  Inc., a North Carolina  corporation having its principal office at
the ("Company"), and Andrall E. Pearson (the "Optionee").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

     WHEREAS,  the  Board of  Directors  and  stockholder  of the  Company  have
approved the Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), for the purposes and subject
to the provisions set forth in the Plan;

     WHEREAS,   pursuant  to  authority  granted  to  it  under  the  Plan,  the
Compensation   Committee   of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Company  (the
"Committee"), by resolution duly adopted at a meeting held on , 1997, granted to
Optionee options to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock upon the terms
and subject to the conditions set forth below; and

     WHEREAS,  each  option  granted  under  the Plan is to be  evidenced  by an
agreement  in such  form  and  containing  such  terms  as the  Committee  shall
determine:

     NOW, THEREFORE,  for good and valuable consideration,  the Optionee and the
Company hereby agree as follows:

     1. Grant. In consideration  of the Optionee  remaining in the employ of the
Company, the Company hereby grants to the Optionee,  on the terms and subject to
the conditions  set forth herein,  the right and option to purchase an aggregate
of 1,050,000  shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.05 per share, at
a price of $ per share (the  "Option  Exercise  Price"),  which was the  average
closing price of the  Company's  Capital Stock for the period from through . The
right to purchase each such share is referred to herein as an "Option".

     2.  Exercisability.  Subject to the terms and  conditions set forth herein,
the Options granted hereunder shall vest as follows:  350,000 options on July 1,
1998;  350,000 options on July 1, 1999; and 350,000 options on July 1, 2000. The
Options shall be exercisable for a period of ten years from the date of grant.

     3. Exercise Procedure. Options may be exercised by giving written notice of
exercise in the manner specified from time to time by the Company. The aggregate
Option Exercise Price for the shares being  purchased,  together with any amount
which the Company may be required to withhold  upon such  exercise in respect of
applicable  foreign,  federal  (including FICA),  state and local taxes, must be
paid in full at the time of issuance of such shares.

     4. Effect of Death or Total  Disability.  In the event  that,  prior to the
expiration of the Options,  the Optionee ceases to be an employee of the Company
by reason of the  Optionee's  death or total  disability  (as  determined by the
Committee),  then the  Optionee's  designated  beneficiary  or,  if none,  legal
representative,  in the event of  death;  or the  Optionee,  in the event of the
Optionee's 



Total Disability, shall be vested with and have the right to exercise
a portion  of such  Options  which is in  proportion  to the  Optionee's  active
service during the Vesting  Period,  and such Options may be exercised from time
to time and at any times during the Exercise  Period.  Any Options which are not
vested as set forth above shall automatically expire and terminate.

     5. Effect of Termination of Employment.  Except as specifically provided in
paragraph 4 above, or as determined by the Committee, if prior to the expiration
of the Options the Optionee  shall cease to discharge  the function of a Company
employee,  any  unexercised  Options shall  automatically  expire and terminate,
unless the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine otherwise.

     6. Misconduct.  If, at any time during the Exercise Period or within twelve
months after the exercise of any Options granted  hereunder,  the Optionee:  (a)
accepts employment with or provides  consulting  services for a competitor;  (b)
engages in any acts which are  considered to be contrary to the  Company's  best
interests,  including,  but not limited to,  recruiting  or hiring away  current
employees of the Company;  (c) engages in any other activity  which  constitutes
gross misconduct; (d) engages in unlawful trading in the Company's securities or
the securities of any other company based on  information  gained as a result of
his  employment  with the  Company;  or (e)  discloses  or misuses  confidential
information or trade secrets of the Company, then the Committee may, in its sole
discretion,  (i) cancel any unexercised  Options granted hereunder,  and/or (ii)
require the Optionee to pay to the Company any and all gains  realized  from any
Options  granted  hereunder,  which have been exercised  within the twelve month
period  immediately  preceding  the date on which the  Optionee  engages  in any
improper activity described herein.

If, within twelve months of the Optionee's total  Disability or Retirement,  the
Optionee  engages in any improper  activity  described in this paragraph 6, then
the Committee may, in its sole  discretion,  (i) cancel any unexercised  Options
granted hereunder,  and/or (ii) cause the Optionee to pay to the Company any and
all gains realized from any Options, which have been exercised within the twelve
month period  immediately  preceding  the date on which the Optionee  engages in
such improper activity.

     7. Adjustment for Change in Common Stock. In the event of any change in the
outstanding  shares of the Company's  Common Stock by reason of any stock split,
stock  dividend,   recapitalization,   reorganization,   merger,  consolidation,
combination or exchange of shares,  spin-off or similar  corporate  change,  the
Committee may make such  equitable  adjustments to the number and type of shares
which the Optionee may purchase pursuant to the Options, and the Option Exercise
Price at which the Optionee may purchase  such shares,  as the  Committee  deems
necessary and appropriate.

     8.  Notices.  Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this
Agreement shall be addressed to the Company at Attention:  or such other address
as the Company may hereafter designate to the Optionee. Any such notice shall be
deemed to have been given when personally delivered,  addressed as aforesaid, or
when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope or wrapper,  addressed as aforesaid,
and deposited, postage prepaid, with the federal postal service.






     9. Binding Effect.

     (a) This  agreement  shall be binding  upon and inure to the benefit of any
assignee  or  successor   in  interest  to  the  Company,   whether  by  merger,
consolidation or the sale of all or substantially  all of the Company's  assets.
The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase,
merger,  consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business
and/or  assets of the  Company to  expressly  assume  and agree to perform  this
Agreement  in the same manner and to the same  extent that the Company  would be
required to perform if no such succession had taken place.

     (b) This  Agreement  shall be binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the
Optionee,  his Transferee(s),  his or their legal representatives and any person
to whom the Options may be  transferred  hereunder or by will or the  applicable
laws of descent and distribution.

     10.  Receipt of  Prospectus.  The  Optionee  will be provided a copy of the
Company's Prospectus relating to the Options and the shares covered thereby. The
Optionee  agrees that he will review the  Prospectus  and fully  understand  his
rights under the Plan prior to exercising any Options covered thereby.

     11. Plan  Controls.  The Options and terms and  conditions set forth herein
are  subject in all  respects  to the terms and  conditions  of the Plan and any
Operating   Guidelines  or  other  policies  or  regulations  which  govern  the
administration of the Plan, which shall be controlling. The Company reserves its
rights to amend or  terminate  the Plan at any time  without  the consent of the
Optionee, provided, however, that Options outstanding under the Plan at the time
of such amendment or termination shall not be adversely  affected  thereby.  All
interpretations  or determinations by the Committee shall be final,  binding and
conclusive upon the Optionee,  and his and their legal  representatives,  on any
questions arising hereunder or under the Plan, the Operating Guidelines or other
policies or regulations which govern administration of the Plan.

     12.  Rights To Future  Grants:  Compliance  with Law. By entering into this
Agreement, the Optionee acknowledges and agrees that the award and acceptance of
Options  pursuant to this  Agreement  does not  entitle  the  Optionee to future
grants of stock  options  or other  awards in the  future  under the Plan or any
other plan. The Optionee  further agrees to seek all necessary  approvals under,
make all  required  notifications  under,  and comply  with all laws,  rules and
regulations  applicable  to the  ownership  of stock  options  and stock and the
exercise of stock options, including, without limitation,  currency and exchange
laws, rules and regulations.

     13.  Governing  Law. This  Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of North Carolina and the parties hereto consent to and
accept  the  jurisdiction  of the  courts  of the State of North  Carolina  with
respect to the  determination  of any claim,  dispute or disagreement  which may
arise from the interpretation,  performance or breach of this Agreement, or with
respect to any matter relating thereto.






     Please  indicate  your  understanding  and  acceptance  of the foregoing by
signing and returning a copy of this Agreement.

                                             TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

                                             By:  /s/ Michael Theilmann
                                                  --------------------------

ATTEST:




I confirm my  understanding  of the 
foregoing  and accept the Options  
described above subject to the terms 
and conditions described herein.



/s/ Andrall E. Pearson
- ------------------------------
Andrall E. Pearson




                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.16

                                    Terms of
                               Robert L. Carleton
                              Employment Agreement



     The following  lists the terms and conditions of the  employment  agreement
between Robert L. Carleton and TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.

     1.   Position: Senior Vice President and Controller

     2.   Hired as a new hire and not as a transferred employee of PepsiCo

     3.   Starting Annual Salary: $400,000

     4.   Target Bonus: 65% of annual salary

     5.   Hiring Bonus:  $450,000  payment in February 1998 to partially  offset
          the loss of unvested 1996 PepsiCo stock option award

     6.   Retirement Payment: $450,000 payment will be made upon retirement from
          Tricon;  provided that he retires on or before  February 1, 2001. This
          payment  will be offset by any  benefit he  receives  under the Tricon
          Salaried Employee Pension Plan and Tricon Pension Equalization Plan.

     7.   1997 Stock Option  Grants for options to buy  $1,900,000  and $131,000
          worth of Tricon Common Stock at a price equal to the fair market value
          of Tricon Common Stock on the date of grant. These grants are designed
          to replace  options  forfeited  by Mr.  Carleton  and  translate  into
          options  to  purchase  62,488 and 3,949  shares of Tricon  Stock at an
          exercise price of $30.41 and $34.47, respectively,  which was the fair
          market value on the date of grant.

     8.   1998 and future  Stock  Option  Grants:  He is  entitled  to receive a
          regular grant for an employee at his level



                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.17

                                    Exhibit A

- -------------------------
Director

                                    Form of
                            Indemnification Agreement



     AGREEMENT,   effective  as  of  October  7,  1997  between   TRICON  Global
Restaurants, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (the "Company"), and NAME (the
"Indemnitee").

     WHEREAS, the Company believes that it is essential that the Company attract
and maintain responsible, qualified directors and corporate officers; and

     WHEREAS,  the Indemnitee is a director or corporate officer of the Company;
and

     WHEREAS,  both the Company and the Indemnitee  recognize the increased risk
of litigation  and other claims being asserted  against  directors and corporate
officers of public companies in today's environment,  as well as the possibility
that in certain  control  situations a threat of  litigation  may be employed to
deter them from  exercising  their best judgment in the interest of the Company,
and the  consequent  need to  allocate  the risk of personal  liability  through
indemnification and insurance; and

     WHEREAS,  the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company
(the "Charter")  requires the Company to indemnify its directors and officers to
the fullest  extent  permitted  from time to time by law and the  Indemnitee  is
willing to serve or continue to serve as a director or corporate  officer of the
Company provided that he/she be indemnified as provided herein; and

     WHEREAS,  in recognition of the Indemnitee's  desire for protection against
personal liability and of the Indemnitee's  reliance on the Charter, and in part
to provide  Indemnitee with specific  contractual  assurance that the protection
described in the Charter will be available  to the  Indemnitee  (regardless  of,
among other things,  any amendment to or revocation of the Charter or any change
in the  composition  of the  Company's  Board of  Directors  or any  acquisition
transaction  involving  the  Company),  the  Company  wishes to  provide in this
Agreement  for the  indemnification  of and the  advancement  of expenses to the
Indemnitee  to the  fullest  extent  permitted  by law and as set  forth in this
Agreement,  and,  to the  extent  insurance  is  maintained,  for the  continued
coverage of  Indemnitee  under the Company's  directors  and officers  liability
insurance policies.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the premises and of the  Indemnitee
continuing  to serve  the  Company  directly  or,  at its  request,  in  another
enterprise,  and  intending to be legally bound  hereby,  the parties  hereto do
hereby covenant and agree as follows:

1.   Certain Definitions

(a)  Change in  Control:  Shall  mean the  occurrence  of any one or more of the
     following  events:  (i) subject to the  conditions  contained  in the final
     paragraph  of this definition, the filing of a report on
     Schedule  13D with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  pursuant  to
     Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Act") disclosing
     that any  person  other  than the  Company  or any  employee  benefit  plan
     sponsored by the Company,  is the beneficial  owner (as the term is defined
     in Rule  13d-3  under  the  Act)  directly  or  indirectly,  of  securities
     representing  twenty percent or more of the total 




     voting  power   represented  by  the  Company's  then  outstanding   Voting
     Securities (calculated as provided in paragraph (d) of Rule 13d-3 under the
     Act in the  case of  rights  to  acquire  Voting  Securities);  or (ii) the
     purchase by any person, other than the Company or any employee benefit plan
     sponsored by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, of shares pursuant
     to a tender offer or exchange offer to acquire any Voting Securities of the
     Company (or securities  convertible into such Voting  Securities) for cash,
     securities or any other consideration,  provided that after consummation of
     the offer,  the person in  question  is the  beneficial  owner  directly or
     indirectly,  of securities representing twenty percent or more of the total
     voting  power   represented  by  the  Company's  then  outstanding   Voting
     Securities  (all as  calculated  under clause (i); or (iii) the approval by
     the  stockholders of the Company of (A) any  consolidation or merger of the
     Company in which the Company is not the continuing or surviving corporation
     (other  than a merger of the Company in which  holders of Common  Shares of
     the Company  immediately  prior to the merger  have the same  proportionate
     ownership of Common Shares of the surviving  corporation  immediately after
     the merger as  immediately  before),  or pursuant to which Common Shares of
     the Company would be converted into cash,  securities or other property, or
     (B) any sale,  lease,  exchange or other transfer (in one  transaction or a
     series of related  transactions) of all or substantially  all the assets of
     the Company;  or (iv) a change in the composition of the Board of Directors
     of the Company at any time during any consecutive  twenty four month period
     such that  "continuing  directors"  cease for any reason to  constitute  at
     least a 50%  majority  of the Board.  For  purposes of this  definition  of
     "Change in Control" the term "voting  securities"  means any  securities of
     the Company which vote generally in the election of members of the Board of
     Directors and the term  "continuing  directors"  means those members of the
     Board  who  either  were  directors  at  the  beginning  of  a  consecutive
     twenty-four  month period or were  elected  during such period by or on the
     nomination   or   recommendation   of  at  least  a  50%  majority  of  the
     then-existing Board.

          So long as there has not been a Change in Control  within the  meaning
     of clause (iv),  the Board of Directors may adopt by a 50% majority vote of
     the  "continuing  directors" a resolution to the effect that the occurrence
     of an event  described  in  clause  (i) (a  "Clause  (i)  Event")  does not
     constitute  a  "Change  in  Control"  (an  "Excluding   Resolution")  or  a
     resolution  to the effect  that the  occurrence  of a Clause (i) Event does
     constitute a "Change in Control" (an "Including Resolution").  The adoption
     of an Excluding  Resolution  with respect to any Clause (i) Event shall not
     deprive  the  Board  of  Directors  of the  right  to  adopt  an  Including
     Resolution  with  respect  to such  Clause (i) Event at a later  date.  The
     provisions  of this  second  paragraph  of the  definition  of  "Change  in
     Control"  relate only to  situations  where a Clause (i) Event has occurred
     and no Change in Control  within the meaning of clause (ii),  (iii) or (iv)
     of the  preceding  paragraph has  occurred,  and nothing in this  paragraph
     shall derogate from the principle that the occurrence of an event described
     in clause (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the preceding paragraph shall be deemed an
     immediate  Change in Control  regardless of whether or not Clause (i) Event
     has occurred and an Excluding  Resolution  or Including  Resolution  become
     effective.

(b)  Expenses:  Expenses of every kind incurred in connection with a Proceeding,
     including counsel fees. Expenses shall include,  without limitation,  court
     costs,  transcript costs,  fees of experts,  witness fees, travel expenses,
     duplicating costs,  printing and binding costs,  telephone and fax charges,
     postage,  delivery  service  charges,  costs associated with procurement of
     surety  bonds  or  loans  or  other  costs  associated  with  the stay of a
     judgment,  penalty or fine, and all other  disbursements or expenses of the
     types  customarily  incurred in  connection  with  prosecuting,  defending,
     preparing to prosecute or defend,  investigating,  or being or preparing to
     be a witness in a Proceeding.

(c)  Independent Counsel: A lawyer or law firm that is experienced in matters of
     corporation  law and neither  presently  is, nor in the past five years has
     been,  retained  to  represent:  (i) the Company or the  Indemnitee  in any
     matter,  or (ii) any other party to the  Proceeding  giving rise to a claim
     for indemnification hereunder.



     Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  the term  "Independent  Counsel" shall not
     include any person who,  under the  applicable  standards  of  professional
     conduct then prevailing,  would have a conflict of interest in representing
     either the Company or the Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's
     rights under this Agreement. Independent Counsel may be, but need not be, a
     member(s) of the bar of North Carolina.

(d)  Proceeding:   Any  threatened,   pending  or  completed  action,   suit  or
     proceeding, whether civil, criminal,  administrative,  or investigative and
     whether  formal or informal.  A  "Proceeding"  may be instituted by another
     party, or by or in the right of the Company, or by the Indemnitee. The term
     "Proceeding"  shall also include any preliminary  inquiry or  investigation
     that the Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of
     a "Proceeding".

(e)  Reviewing Party: Any appropriate  person or body consisting of (i) a member
     or members of the Company's Board of Directors, or (ii) any other person or
     body  duly  appointed  by the  Board  who is not a party to the  particular
     Proceeding  for which the Indemnitee is seeking  indemnification,  or (iii)
     Independent Counsel.

(f)  Voting  Securities:  Any  securities of the Company which vote generally in
     the election of directors.

2.   Term of Agreement:  This Agreement  shall continue until and terminate upon
     the later of (i) the tenth  anniversary  after the date that the Indemnitee
     shall have  ceased to serve as a director  or officer of the Company (or in
     any other capacity in respect of which he/she has rights of indemnification
     hereunder);  or (ii) the final  termination  of all pending  Proceedings in
     respect  of which  Indemnitee  is  granted  rights  of  indemnification  or
     advancement of Expenses  hereunder,  including any Proceeding  commenced by
     the Indemnitee to enforce the Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.

3.   Right to Indemnification and Advance; How Determined:  (a) In the event the
     Indemnitee  was,  is or becomes a party to or witness or other  participant
     in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other  participant
     in, a  Proceeding  by  reason  of (or  arising  in whole or in part out of)
     Indemnitee's  present or former status as a director,  officer or fiduciary
     of the Company,  or Indemnitee  having served at the request of the Company
     as a director,  officer,  employee,  trustee, agent or fiduciary of another
     corporation,   joint  venture,   employee  benefit  plan,  trust  or  other
     enterprise,  the Company  shall  indemnify  the  Indemnitee  to the fullest
     extent  permitted  by law in effect on the date hereof (and to such greater
     extent as applicable  law may hereafter  permit)  against the obligation to
     pay any and all  Expenses,  judgments,  settlements,  penalties,  or  fines
     (including  any interest  assessed,  and  including any excise tax assessed
     with respect to an employee  benefit  plan)  incurred on account of or with
     respect to such Proceeding.  Such indemnification  shall be made as soon as
     practicable, but in any event no later than sixty days after written demand
     is presented  to the  Secretary of the  Company.  This  Agreement  shall be
     effective as well with respect to any such Proceedings which relate to acts
     or omissions  occurring or allegedly  occurring  prior to the  execution of
     this Agreement.

          (b) In  connection  with any such  Proceeding,  if so requested by the
     Indemnitee,  the Company  shall  advance,  within two business days of such
     request,  any and all  reasonable  Expenses to the  Indemnitee (an "Expense
     Advance"). An Expense Advance shall be made without awaiting the results of
     Proceeding  giving  rise to the  Expenses  or the  outcome  of any  further
     Proceeding  to  determine  the   Indemnitee's   right  to   indemnification
     hereunder,  and  without  making any  preliminary  determination  as to the
     Indemnitee's state of mind at the time of the activities in question.





          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing,  the Company shall not be obligated
     to indemnify  under this Section 3 a person made a party to the  Proceeding
     if (i) the Indemnitee is not successful within the meaning of Section 6 and
     (ii) the  appropriate  Reviewing  Party  specified in subsection  (e) below
     shall have  affirmatively  determined (in a written  opinion in any case in
     which  Independent  Counsel referred to in Section 4 hereof is involved,  a
     copy of which shall be delivered to the Indemnitee)  that the  Indemnitee's
     activities  in question were at the time taken known or believed by him/her
     to be clearly in  conflict  with the best  interests  of the  Company.  The
     obligation of the Company promptly to make an Expense  Advance(s)  pursuant
     to the subsection (b) above is unqualified,  is not subject to any means or
     other credit test,  and shall be  enforceable  by the Indemnitee in summary
     judicial  proceedings;  but shall be  subject,  however,  to the  condition
     subsequent  that  if,  when  and to the  extent  the  Reviewing  Party  may
     subsequently  determine that the  Indemnitee's  activities were at the time
     taken known or believed by him/her to be clearly in conflict  with the best
     interests  of the  Company,  then  the  Company  shall  be  entitled  to be
     reimbursed by the Indemnitee for all such amounts theretofore advanced. The
     obligation of the Indemnitee to make such reimbursement  shall be unsecured
     and without interest.  The Indemnitee hereby undertakes so to reimburse the
     Company,  the receipt of which  unsecured and interest free  undertaking is
     hereby  accepted  by the Company as the sole  condition  of  advancing  the
     Indemnitee's  Expenses  pursuant to subsection (b) above. If the Indemnitee
     has commenced  legal or arbitration  proceedings to secure a  determination
     that the Indemnitee should be indemnified  hereunder,  the Indemnitee shall
     not be required to reimburse  the Company for any Expense  Advance  until a
     final determination is made by the court or the arbitrators as the case may
     be that  the  Indemnitee's  activities  were at the  time  taken  known  or
     believed by him/her to be clearly in conflict  with the best  interests  of
     the Company.

          (d) Notwithstanding  anything in this Agreement to the contrary, prior
     to  a  Change  in  Control,   the  Indemnitee  shall  not  be  entitled  to
     indemnification   pursuant  to  this  Agreement  in  connection   with  any
     Proceeding  initiated by the  Indemnitee  unless the Board of Directors has
     authorized or consented to the initiation of such Proceeding.  For purposes
     of the foregoing  sentence,  a Proceeding  shall not be deemed to have been
     "initiated" by the Indemnitee  where its primary  purpose is to enforce the
     Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.

          (e) If there has not been a Change in  Control,  the  Reviewing  Party
     shall be as determined  by the Board of  Directors,  either in the specific
     case or under  procedures  adopted by the Board. If there has been a Change
     in  Control  (other  than one  approved  in advance  by a 50%  majority  of
     "continuing directors" prior to such change in Control) the Reviewing Party
     shall be the Independent Counsel referred to in Section 4.

          (f) If there has been a Change in Control and any dispute arises under
     this  Agreement,  the parties  agree that at the  Indemnitee's  option such
     dispute shall be resolved by binding arbitration  proceedings in accordance
     with the rules of the American  Arbitration  Association and the results of
     such  proceedings  shall be  conclusive  on both  parties  and shall not be
     subject  to  judicial  interference  or  review on any  ground  whatsoever,
     including  without  limitation  any claim that the Company  was  wrongfully
     induced to enter  into this  agreement  to  arbitrate  such a dispute.  The
     Company  shall  pay the  cost of any  arbitration  proceedings  under  this
     Agreement.  The  Indemnitee  shall be  entitled to  advancement  of his/her
     Expenses in connection with such proceedings and,  notwithstanding anything
     to the contrary in subsection (c) above,  the Indemnitee shall be obligated
     to  reimburse  the  Company for his/her  Expenses in  connection  with such
     arbitration  proceedings only if it is finally and specifically  determined
     by the  arbitrators  that  the  Indemnitee's  position  in  initiating  the
     arbitration was frivolous and completely without merit.




4.   Independent  Counsel.  (a) The Company  agrees that if there is a Change in
     Control  of the  Company  (other  than one  approved  in  advance  by a 50%
     majority of  "continuing  directors"  prior to such Change in Control) then
     with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of the
     Indemnitee to indemnity  payments and Expense  Advances  under the Charter,
     this Agreement or any other agreement or Company by-law now or hereafter in
     effect  relating to  indemnification,  the Company shall (unless  otherwise
     agreed by the Indemnitee)  seek legal advice  exclusively  from Independent
     Counsel  selected by the  Indemnitee  and  approved  by the Company  (which
     approval shall not be  unreasonably  withheld).  Such counsel,  among other
     things,  shall  render  its  written  opinion  to  the  Company  and to the
     Indemnitee as to whether the Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified under
     this Agreement.  The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses
     of the Independent  Counsel and fully to indemnify such counsel against any
     and all expenses  (including  attorney's  fees),  claims,  liabilities  and
     damages  arising  out of or relating to this  Agreement  or such  counsel's
     engagement pursuant hereto.

          (b)  Following  the initial  selection of  Independent  Counsel by the
     Indemnitee  the Company may within seven (7) days deliver to the Indemnitee
     a written objection to such selection.  Such objection may be asserted only
     on the ground that the  Independent  Counsel  selected does not satisfy the
     definition  of  Independent  Counsel in  subsection  1(c) and the objection
     shall set forth with  particularity  the factual basis for such  assertion.
     Absent a proper and timely objection,  the person, persons or firm selected
     shall act as Independent  Counsel.  If such written  objection is made, the
     Indemnitee may select alternate Independent Counsel. If the Company objects
     to the  alternate  selection  the  Indemnitee  may  either  seek a judicial
     determination   that  such  objections  were   inappropriate  or  else  the
     Indemnitee  may direct that the Company select  Independent  Counsel by lot
     from among the North  Carolina  firms  having  more than 25  attorneys  and
     having a rating of "av" or better  in the then  current  Martindale-Hubbell
     Law  Directory.  Such  selection  by lot  shall  be made  by the  principal
     financial officer of the Company in the presence of the Indemnitee (and the
     Indemnitee's legal counsel,  or either or neither of them as the Indemnitee
     may  elect).  Such law  firms  shall  be  contacted  in the  order of their
     selection,   requesting  each  firm  to  accept   engagement  to  make  the
     determination  required,  until one of such firms accepts such  engagement.
     Notwithstanding   the   foregoing,   in  lieu  of  selection  of  alternate
     Independent  Counsel  after the  Company has  objected to the  Indemnitee's
     first or second  selection,  the Indemnitee may request and direct that the
     Independent  Counsel  method  be  dispensed  with and that any  dispute  be
     decided by arbitration as provided in subsection 3(f).

          (c)  Considering  that a fundamental  purpose of this  Agreement is to
     provide for and ensure the timely  advance of an  Indemnitee's  Expenses in
     any event,  if there is a Change in Control  (other  than one  approved  in
     advance by a 50% majority of "continuing directors" prior to such Change in
     Control") and the  Indemnitee  must  commence  arbitration  proceedings  to
     secure  an  advance  of  his/her  Expenses,   the  arbitrators  shall  have
     discretion to award punitive  damages to the Indemnitee if it is found that
     the Company's  failure to advance the  Indemnitee's  expenses makes such an
     award appropriate in the circumstances.

5.   Indemnification for Enforcement  Expenses.  The Company shall indemnify the
     Indemnitee against any and all Expenses (including attorneys' fees) and, if
     requested  by the  Indemnitee,  shall  (within  two  business  days of such
     request) advance such expenses to the Indemnitee, which are incurred by the
     Indemnitee in connection  with any  Proceeding  initiated by the Indemnitee
     for: (i)  indemnification  or  advancement of Expenses by the Company under
     the North Carolina  Business  Corporation  Act (the "NCBCA"),  the Charter,
     this Agreement,  or any other agreement now or hereafter in effect relating
     to  indemnification;  or (ii) recovery  under any  directors' and officers'
     liability  insurance  policies  maintained by the Company.  The  Indemnitee
     shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making the determination
     with respect to the Indemnitee's  entitlement to indemnification under this
     Agreement.  Any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in so cooperating shall
     be  borne  by the  




     Company   (irrespective  of  the   determination  as  to  the  Indemnitee's
     entitlement  to  indemnification)  and the Company hereby  indemnifies  and
     agrees to hold the Indemnitee harmless therefrom.

6.   Success;  Partial Indemnity,  etc.  Notwithstanding  any other provision of
     this  Agreement,  to the extent that the Indemnitee has been  successful on
     the  merits or  otherwise  in defense  of any or all  claims  made  against
     him/her  in a  Proceeding  or in  defense  of any issue or matter  therein,
     including dismissal without prejudice,  the Indemnitee shall be indemnified
     against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith. If the Indemnitee is
     entitled  under any provision of this Agreement to  indemnification  by the
     Company  for some or a portion  of the  Expenses,  judgments,  settlements,
     penalties or fines paid as a result of a Proceeding but not,  however,  for
     all of the total amount thereof,  the Company shall nevertheless  indemnify
     the Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which the Indemnitee is entitled.

7.   Burden of Proof.  In  connection  with any  determination  by the Reviewing
     Party  or  otherwise  as  to  whether  the  Indemnitee  is  entitled  to be
     indemnified hereunder,  the person or persons or entity or body making such
     determination   shall   presume   that  the   Indemnitee   is  entitled  to
     indemnification  under this  Agreement  and the burden of  overcoming  such
     presumption by clear and convincing  evidence shall be on the Company.  The
     termination of any claim,  action,  suit or proceeding by judgment,  order,
     settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction,  or upon
     a  plea  of  nolo  contendere,  or  its  equivalent,  shall  not  create  a
     presumption that the  Indemnitee's  activities were at the time taken known
     or believed by him/her to be clearly in conflict with the best interests of
     the Company,  or that a court has determined  that  indemnification  is not
     permitted. In addition,  neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have
     made a determination  as to the  Indemnitee's  state of mind, nor an actual
     determination  by the Reviewing  Party that the  Indemnitee  had a state of
     mind prior to the  commencement  of  arbitration  (if  applicable) or legal
     proceedings  to  secure a  determination  that  the  Indemnitee  should  be
     indemnified  under this agreement and applicable law, shall be a defense to
     the  Indemnitee's  claim or create a presumption of any kind. The knowledge
     and/or  actions,  or  failure  to act,  of any  director,  officer,  agent,
     fiduciary or employee of the Company shall not be imputed to the Indemnitee
     for  purposes  of  determining  the  right to  indemnification  under  this
     Agreement.

8.   Nonexclusivity,  Etc. The rights of the  Indemnitee  hereunder  shall be in
     addition to any other rights the Indemnitee may have under the Charter, the
     NCBCA or any  other  agreement.  To the  extent  that a change in the NCBCA
     (whether by a statute or judicial decision) permits greater indemnification
     by agreement  than would be afforded  currently  under the Charter and this
     Agreement,  it is the intent of the parties that the Indemnitee shall enjoy
     by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.

9.   Contribution. In the event the indemnification provided for in Section 3 of
     this  Agreement is  unavailable  to the  Indemnitee in connection  with any
     Proceeding under any Federal law, the Company,  in lieu of indemnifying the
     Indemnitee,  shall contribute to the Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in
     such  proportion as deemed fair and reasonable by the Reviewing  Party,  in
     light  of all  the  circumstances  of the  Proceeding  giving  rise to such
     Expenses,  in order to reflect (i) the  relative  benefits  received by the
     Company  and  the   Indemnitee   as  a  result  of  the   event(s)   and/or
     transaction(s) giving rise to such Proceeding,  and (ii) the relative fault
     of each.

10.  Liability  Insurance.  To the extent the  Company  maintains  an  insurance
     policy or policies providing  directors' and officers' liability insurance,
     the Indemnitee  shall be covered by such policy or policies,  in accordance
     with its or their terms,  to the maximum  extent of the coverage  available
     for any Company director or officer.



11.  Period of  Limitations.  No legal  action  shall be brought and no cause of
     action  shall be  asserted  by or in the right of the  Company  against the
     Indemnitee,  the Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal
     representatives  after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual
     of such  cause of action,  and any claim or cause of action of the  Company
     shall be  extinguished  and deemed  released  unless asserted by the timely
     filing of a legal action within such two-year  period;  provided,  however,
     that if any shorter period of  limitations  is otherwise  applicable to any
     such cause of action such shorter period shall govern.

12.  Procedures  Valid.  The Company  shall be precluded  from  asserting in any
     judicial  proceeding or  arbitration  commenced  pursuant to this Agreement
     that the  procedures  and  presumptions  of this  Agreement  are not valid,
     binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any
     such  arbitrator  that the Company is bound by all the  provisions  of this
     Agreement.  If a  determination  is made that the Indemnitee is entitled to
     indemnification,  the Company shall be bound by such  determination  in any
     judicial proceeding or arbitration.

13.  Amendments, Etc. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement
     shall be binding unless  executed in writing by both of the parties hereto.
     No waiver of any of the  provisions  of this  Agreement  shall be deemed or
     shall  constitute a waiver of any other  provisions  hereof (whether or not
     similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.

14.  Subrogation.  In the event of payment  under this  Agreement,  the  Company
     shall be  subrogated  to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of
     recovery of the  Indemnitee,  who shall execute an appropriate  document in
     favor of the Company to secure such rights.

15.  No  Duplication  of  Payments.  The Company  shall not be liable under this
     Agreement  to make any payment in  connection  with any  Proceeding  to the
     extent the Indemnitee has otherwise  actually  received  payment (under any
     insurance  policy,  the  Charter or  otherwise)  of the  amounts  otherwise
     indemnifiable hereunder.

16.  Binding Effect,  Etc. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
     benefit of and be enforceable  by the parties  hereto and their  respective
     successors,   assigns  (including  any  direct  or  indirect  successor  by
     purchase,  merger or consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all
     of the business and/or assets of the Company),  spouses,  heirs,  executors
     and personal and legal  representatives.  This Agreement  shall continue in
     effect regardless of whether Indemnitee  continues to serve as an executive
     officer or director of the Company or of any other entity at the  Company's
     request.   In  the  event  of  his/her  demise,  this  Agreement  shall  be
     enforceable  by the  Indemnitee's  legal  representatives  as  fully  as if
     Indemnitee had survived.

17.  Severability; Headings; Pronouns. The provisions of this Agreement shall be
     severable in the event that any of the  provisions  hereof  (including  any
     provision  within a single  section,  paragraph  or  sentence) is held by a
     court  of  competent   jurisdiction  to  be  invalid,   void  or  otherwise
     unenforceable in any respect,  and the validity and  enforceability  of any
     such  provision  in every  other  respect and of the  remaining  provisions
     hereof shall not be in any way impaired and shall remain enforceable to the
     fullest  extent  permitted  by law.  The  headings of the  Sections of this
     Agreement  are  inserted  for  convenience  only and shall not be deemed to
     constitute  part of this Agreement or to affect the  construction  thereof.
     The  masculine  pronoun  wherever  used  in  this  Agreement  includes  the
     corresponding feminine pronoun.




18.  Notice of Proceedings;  Notices.  The Indemnitee  agrees promptly to notify
     the  Company  in writing  upon being  served  with any  summons,  citation,
     subpoena, complaint, indictment,  information or other document relating to
     any  Proceeding  or  matter  which may be  subject  to  indemnification  or
     advancement of Expenses covered hereunder. All notices,  requests,  demands
     and other communications  hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed
     to have  been  duly  given  (i)  upon  delivery  if  delivered  by hand and
     receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall
     have been  directed,  or (ii) on the third  business  day after  mailing if
     mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid,  and addressed
     as follows: If to the Indemnitee, as shown after the Indemnitee's signature
     below;  and  if to the  Company,  to  Corporate  Secretary,  TRICON  Global
     Restaurants,  Inc., 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville,  KY 40213 or such other
     address as may have been  furnished  in writing  to the  Indemnitee  by the
     Company or to the Company by the Indemnitee, as the case may be.

19.  Governing  Law.  This  Agreement  shall be  governed by and  construed  and
     enforced  in  accordance  with  the laws of the  State  of  North  Carolina
     applicable  to contracts  made and to be  performed  in such state  without
     giving effect to the principles of conflicts of laws.


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as
     of the day and year first above written.


                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.



                         By:
                            -----------------------------------


- -------------------------------------------
NAME
ADDRESS





(a)  Included in earnings are certain  allocations related to overhead costs and
     interest expense from PepsiCo.  For purposes of these ratios,  earnings are
     calculated  by  adding  to   (subtracting   from)  income  from  continuing
     operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting  changes
     the following:  fixed charges,  excluding capitalized interest;  and losses
     and (undistributed earnings) recognized with respect to less than 50% owned
     equity  investments.  Fixed charges consist of interest on borrowings,  the
     allocation of PepsiCo's interest expense and that portion of rental expense
     that approximates  interest.  For a description of the PepsiCo allocations,
     see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)  Included the impact of unusual,  disposal and other charges of $174 million
     ($159 million after tax) in 1997,  $246 million ($189 million after tax) in
     1996 and $457  ($324  after  tax) in 1995.  Excluding  the  impact  of such
     charges,  the ratio of  earnings  to fixed  charges  would have been 1.35x,
     1.74x  and  1.74x  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  1997,   1996  and  1995,
     respectively.

(c)  The Company is contingently  liable for obligations of certain  franchisees
     and  other  unaffiliated  parties.   Fixed  charges  associated  with  such
     obligations  aggregated  approximately  $17 million  during the fiscal year
     1997. Such fixed charges,  which are contingent,  have not been included in
     the computation of the ratios.

(d)  For the fiscal years December 27, 1997 and December 30, 1995, earnings were
     insufficient to cover fixed charges by  approximately  $36 million and $103
     million,  respectively.  Earnings in 1997 includes a charge of $530 million
     ($425  million  after  tax) taken in the  fourth  quarter  to  refocus  our
     business.  Earnings in 1995  included  the noncash  charge of $457  million
     ($324 million after tax) for the initial adoption of Statement of Financial
     Accounting  Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
     Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."

   






Notes:

(1)  This Schedule lists the entities that were active subsidiaries of TRICON as
     of December 31,  1997.  Omitted  from the above list are  approximately  73
     insignificant  or  inactive   subsidiaries  which,  if  considered  in  the
     aggregate  as a single  subsidiary,  would  not  constitute  a  significant
     subsidiary.  The list also excludes  approximately 77 subsidiaries of Pizza
     Hut, Inc., most of which operate restaurants in the U.S., and approximately
     33  subsidiaries  of Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation and Kentucky Fried
     Chicken of California,  Inc., most of which operate  restaurants outside of
     the U.S.

(2)  Kentucky  Fried  Chicken  Singapore  Holdings  Pte.  Ltd.  Owns 50% of this
     subsidiary.

(3)  An outside shareholder owns 50% of this subsidiary.

(4)  Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation owns 8% of this subsidiary.

(5)  Outside shareholders own 69% of this subsidiary.

(6)  Each of the following companies (on insignificant list) owns the percentage
     listed  of  this  subsidiary:  TRICON  Capital  Pte.  Limited  10%,  TRICON
     Australia  Finance Ptd. Ltd. 15%, and Pizza Hut Australia Finance Pte. Ltd.
     15%.



                                                                    Exhibit 23.1


                         Consent of Independent Auditors


The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:

We consent to  incorporation  by reference in the  registration  statements (No.
333-42969) on Form S-3 and (No. 333-36877,  333-36955,  333-36895, 333-36961 and
333-36893)  on Form S-8 of our report dated  February 12, 1998,  relating to the
consolidated  balance sheet of TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries
as of December  27, 1997 and December  28,  1996,  and the related  consolidated
statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders' (deficit) equity for each
of the years in the  three-year  period ended  December  27, 1997,  which report
appears in the Company's  December 27, 1997 annual report on Form 10-K of TRICON
Global  Restaurants,  Inc. Our audit report refers to the Company's  adoption of
the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board's  Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 121,  "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived  Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" in 1995.


                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
March 25, 1998








