
10-K
FORM 10-K FOR TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.




================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[|X|] ANNUAL REPORT  PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES  EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED] for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1999
                                       OR
[ ]  TRANSITION  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION  13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
        For the transition period from ____________ to _________________

                         Commission file number 1-13163

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 North Carolina                                                 13-3951308
 --------------                                                 ----------
 (State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                              Identification No.)

                 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky 40213
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (502) 874-8300

                                                          Name of Each Exchange
                               Title of Class              On which Registered
                          --------------------------     -----------------------
Securities registered     Common Stock, no par value     New York Stock Exchange
 pursuant to 12(b) of     Rights to purchase Series      New York Stock Exchange
 the Act:                 A Participating Preferred
                          Stock, no par value, of
                          the Registrant


Securities registered pursuant to 12(g) of the Act:    None

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate  market value of the voting stock (which  consists  solely of
shares of Common Stock ) held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of February
28, 2000 computed by reference to the closing price of the  registrant's  Common
Stock  on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  Composite  Tape  on  such  date  was
$3,807,535,878.

     The number of shares  outstanding  of the  Registrant's  Common Stock as of
February 28, 2000 was 148,225,241 shares.

     Portions of the definitive proxy statement furnished to shareholders of the
Registrant in connection  with the annual meeting of  shareholders to be held on
May 18, 2000, are incorporated by reference into Part III.

================================================================================




                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business.

     TRICON  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  (referred  to herein as  "Tricon")  was
incorporated  under  the  laws of the  state  of North  Carolina  in  1997.  The
principal  executive  offices  of Tricon  are  located  at 1441  Gardiner  Lane,
Louisville,  Kentucky 40213,  and its telephone number at that location is (502)
874-8300.

     Tricon, the registrant,  together with its restaurant  operating  companies
and other  subsidiaries,  is referred to in this Form 10-K annual  report ("Form
10-K") as the Company. Prior to October 6, 1997, the business of the Company was
conducted  by  PepsiCo,   Inc.  ("PepsiCo")  through  various  subsidiaries  and
divisions.

     This Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Cautionary Statements
on page 41.

     (a) General Development of Business

     In January 1997,  PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant
businesses to  shareholders as an independent  public company (the  "Spin-off").
Effective as of October 6, 1997,  PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant  businesses
by distributing  all of the outstanding  shares of common stock of Tricon to its
shareholders. Tricon's Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
on October 7, 1997 under the symbol "YUM." (Prior to that date,  from  September
17, 1997 through  October 6, 1997,  Tricon's  Common Stock was traded on the New
York  Stock  Exchange  on a  "when-issued"  basis).  As used in this Form  10-K,
references to Tricon or the Company include the historical  operating results of
the businesses  and  operations  transferred to the Company in the Spin-off and,
except  where  indicated,  include  the  non-core  businesses  divested in 1997.
Additionally,  throughout this Form 10-K, the terms "restaurants,"  "stores" and
"units" are used interchangeably.

     Information  about the Spin-off and the non-core  businesses is included in
the Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of
Operations  ("MD&A")  and the  related  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and
footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 20 through 41; and Part II, Item 8, pages 42
through 81, respectively, of this Form 10-K.

     (b) Financial Information about Operating Segments

     Tricon consists of four operating  segments:  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
TRICON  Restaurants  International  ("Tricon   International").   For  financial
reporting purposes, management considers the three U.S. operating segments to be
similar and, therefore,  has aggregated them into a single reportable  operating
segment.  Operating  segment  information for the years ended December 25, 1999,
December  26,  1998 and  December  27,  1997 is included in MD&A and the related
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 20
through 41; and Part II, Item 8, pages 42 through 81, respectively, of this Form
10-K.

     (c) Narrative Description of Business

     General

     Tricon is the world's  largest quick  service  restaurant  ("QSR")  company
based on number of system  units,  with almost 30,000 units in 104 countries and
territories.  The Tricon  organization  is currently  made up of four  operating
companies organized around its three core concepts, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
(the "Concepts"). The four operating companies are KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
Tricon International. KFC is based in



Louisville,  Kentucky;  Pizza Hut and Tricon  International are headquartered in
Dallas, Texas; and Taco Bell is based in Irvine, California.

     Restaurant Concepts

     Through  its  three  widely-recognized   Concepts,  the  Company  develops,
operates,  franchises  and  licenses a  worldwide  system of  restaurants  which
prepare,  package and sell a menu of  competitively  priced  food  items.  These
restaurants  are  operated by the Company or,  under the terms of  franchise  or
license  agreements,  by  franchisees  or licensees  who are  independent  third
parties, or by international affiliates in which we own a non-controlling equity
interest ("Unconsolidated Affiliates").

     The  Company's  franchise  program is  designed to assure  consistency  and
quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. Under the standard
franchise  agreement,  franchisees  supply  capital  -  initially  by  paying  a
franchise  fee,  purchasing  or leasing  the land and  building  and  purchasing
equipment,  signs, seating,  inventories and supplies, and over the longer term,
by reinvesting  in the business.  Franchisees  then  contribute to the Company's
revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.

     The Company  believes  that it is  important  to  maintain  strong and open
relationships with its franchisees and their  representatives.  To this end, the
Company  invests  a  significant  amount  of time  working  with the  franchisee
community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business,
ranging from new products to new equipment to new management techniques.

     Tricon is engaged in the operation, development,  franchising and licensing
of a system of both traditional and non-traditional  QSR units.  Non-traditional
units  include  express  units and  kiosks  which have a more  limited  menu and
operate in non-traditional  locations like airports, gas and convenience stores,
stadiums,  amusement parks and colleges,  where a full-scale  traditional outlet
would not be practical or efficient.  In addition,  as of year-end  1999,  there
were 745 units in the worldwide system housing more than one Concept.  Of these,
728 units offer food products  from two of the Concepts (a "2n1"),  and 17 units
offer food products from each of the Concepts (a "3n1").

     In each Concept,  consumers can dine in and/or carry out food. In addition,
Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-thru option in many stores, and Pizza Hut offers
a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more
limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.

     Each Concept has  proprietary  menu items and emphasizes the preparation of
food  with  high  quality  ingredients  as well as unique  recipes  and  special
seasonings  to  provide  appealing,  tasty and  attractive  food at  competitive
prices.

     Following is a brief description of each Concept.

     KFC
     ---

     KFC was founded in Corbin,  Kentucky,  by Colonel  Harland D.  Sanders,  an
early  developer  of the  quick  service  food  business  and a  pioneer  of the
restaurant franchise concept. The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs
and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee
in 1952.  KFC now has more than 5,200 units in the U.S.,  and almost 5,600 units
in 84 countries and territories outside the U.S. Approximately 28 percent of the
U.S. units and 21 percent of the non-U.S. units are operated by the Company.



     While product  offerings  vary  throughout  the worldwide  system,  all KFC
restaurants   offer  fried  chicken  products  and  many  also  offer  non-fried
chicken-on-the-bone  products.  These  products  are  marketed  under  the names
Original  Recipe,  Extra Tasty  Crispy and Tender  Roast,  among  others.  Other
principal  entree items include chicken  sandwiches and Colonel's Crispy Strips,
and,  seasonally,  Chunky Chicken Pot Pies. KFC restaurants also offer a variety
of side items,  such as biscuits,  mashed  potatoes and gravy,  coleslaw,  corn,
Potato Wedges (in the U.S.) and french fries  (outside of the U.S.),  as well as
desserts and non-alcoholic beverages.  Their decor is characterized by the image
of the Colonel and KFC's distinctive packaging includes the "Bucket" of chicken.

     As of  year-end  1999,  KFC was the leader in the U.S.  chicken QSR segment
among companies  featuring chicken as their primary product offering,  with a 55
percent  market  share in that  segment  which is almost seven times that of its
closest national competitor.

     Pizza Hut
     ---------

     Pizza Hut operates in 88 countries  and  territories  throughout  the world
under the name "Pizza Hut" and features a variety of pizzas,  including  The Big
New Yorker,  Pan Pizza, Thin n' Crispy,  Pizzeria Stuffed Crust, Hand Tossed and
Sicilian,  each  offered with a variety of  different  toppings.  Pizza Hut also
features  beverages and, in some  restaurants,  breadsticks,  pasta,  salads and
sandwiches. The distinctive Pizza Hut decor features a bright red roof.

     The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita,  Kansas,  and
within a year,  the first  franchise  unit was opened.  Today,  Pizza Hut is the
largest  restaurant chain in the world  specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat
pizza  products.  As of year-end  1999, the Concept had grown to more than 8,000
units in the U.S.,  and more than 3,900 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately
29 percent of the U.S.  units and 20 percent of the non-U.S.  units are operated
by the Company.

     As of  year-end  1999,  Pizza  Hut was the  leader  in the U.S.  pizza  QSR
segment, with a 21 percent market share in that segment which is 75 percent more
than its closest national competitor.

     Taco Bell
     ---------

     Taco Bell operates in 15 countries  and  territories  throughout  the world
under the name  "Taco  Bell" and  specializes  in Mexican  style food  products,
including various types of tacos, burritos,  Gorditas,  Chalupas, salads, nachos
and other related  items.  Taco Bell units  feature a  distinctive  bell logo on
their signage.

     The first Taco Bell  restaurant  was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey,
California,  and in 1964,  the first Taco Bell  franchise  was sold. By year-end
1999, there were almost 6,900 Taco Bell units within the U.S., and more than 200
units  outside of the U.S.  Approximately  17  percent of the U.S.  units and 16
percent of the non-U.S. units are operated by the Company.

     Taco Bell is the  leader in the U.S.  Mexican  QSR  segment,  with a market
share in that segment of 72 percent.

     Tricon International
     --------------------

     The international  operations of the three Tricon Concepts are consolidated
into a separate  international  operating company,  which has directed its focus
toward  generating more system growth through  franchisees and concentrating its
development  of Company units in those  markets with  sufficient  scale.  Tricon
International  has  developed new global  systems and tools  designed to improve
marketing,  operations  consistency,   product  delivery,  market  planning  and
development and franchise support capability.



     The  Company  has  almost  9,800  units in the  system  outside of the U.S.
Approximately  20  percent  of the  total  non-U.S.  units are  operated  by the
Company. In 1999, Tricon International accounted for 33 percent of the Company's
total system sales and 27 percent of the Company's total revenues.

     Operating Structure

     In all three of its Concepts, the Company either operates units or they are
operated by independent franchisees or licensees.  Franchisees can range in size
from individuals owning just a few units to large publicly traded companies.  In
addition,  the Company participates in Unconsolidated  Affiliates who operate as
franchisees. As of year-end 1999, approximately 23 percent of Tricon's worldwide
units were  operated by the Company,  approximately  62 percent by  franchisees,
approximately   11  percent  by  licensees  and   approximately   4  percent  by
Unconsolidated Affiliates.

     Refranchising

     Beginning in 1995,  the Company  began  rebalancing  the system toward more
franchisee  ownership to focus its resources on what it believes are high growth
potential  markets where it can more efficiently  leverage its scale.  Since the
strategy began, the Company has refranchised  5,138 units:  1,435 units in 1999,
1,373  units in 1998,  1,407  units in 1997,  659 units in 1996 and 264 units in
1995.  As a result of the  Company's  refranchising  activity,  coupled with new
points of  distribution  added by  franchisees  and licensees and the program to
upgrade the asset  portfolio by closing  underperforming  stores,  the Company's
overall  ownership of total system units  declined 24 percentage  points in five
years from 47 percent at  year-end  1994 to 23  percent at  year-end  1999.  The
refranchising  program is expected to continue, in the near term, but as Company
ownership  approaches  approximately  20  percent,   refranchising  activity  is
expected to substantially  decrease.  The continuation of the program depends on
the  Company's  ability to identify  and sell to qualified  franchisees  Company
restaurants  at prices and terms  considered  by the Company to be  appropriate.
There can be no assurance as to whether,  or to what extent,  management will be
able to effect refranchising activities in the future.

  Competitive Advantages

     Global Scale

     Powerful Concepts in Growing Food Categories.  KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
are three of the most recognized  restaurant  Concepts in the world. Each is the
U.S.  leader in terms of market share and number of units in its respective food
category.  The Company  believes that the near  universal  appeal of chicken and
pizza provide a strong  foundation  for global Concept  expansion,  and that the
emerging  trend  towards  Mexican-style  foods  may  provide  additional  growth
opportunities.

     Worldwide  Capabilities.  Based on available  industry data,  Tricon is the
world's  largest QSR company  measured  by system  units and the second  largest
based on system sales. In terms of international locations, the Company believes
that,  as of year-end  1999,  its total of almost 9,800 system units outside the
U.S.  was second only to  McDonald's  Corporation.  The Company has global scale
capabilities in marketing, advertising,  purchasing and research and development
("R&D").  Tricon  believes that its  worldwide  network of Company and franchise
operations  provides  a strong  foundation  from  which to  expand  in  existing
markets,  enter new markets and launch new products and marketing campaigns.  In
many  countries  and  regions,  the  Company  has  the  scale  to use  extensive
television advertising,  an important factor in increasing brand awareness.  The
Company's  scale  enables it to negotiate  superior  marketing  promotions  when
compared to many of its competitors.



     Purchasing/Distribution  Network. The Company is a substantial purchaser of
a number of food  products,  and it believes its scale  purchasing  capabilities
provide  it  with  competitive  advantages  such  as its  ability  to  ensure  a
consistent  supply of high  quality  food,  ingredients  and other  supplies  at
attractive  prices to all of its Concepts.  In 1996, to ensure reliable sources,
the  Company  consolidated  most of its  worldwide  food and supply  procurement
activities under an internal  organization  now called Supply Chain  Management,
which  sources,  negotiates  contracts and buys specified food and supplies from
hundreds of suppliers in a  significant  number of  countries  and  territories.
Supply  Chain  Management  monitors  market  trends  and seeks to  identify  and
capitalize  on  purchasing   opportunities   that  will  enhance  the  Company's
competitive  position.  The principal  products  purchased include beef, cheese,
chicken  products,  cooking  oils,  corn,  flour,  lettuce,  paper and packaging
materials,  pinto beans,  pork,  seasonings,  soft drink  beverage  products and
tomato products.

     Effective  as of March 1, 1999,  the  Company,  along with the KFC National
Purchasing Cooperative, Inc. and representatives of the Company's KFC, Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell  franchisee  groups,  formed the  Unified  FoodService  Purchasing
Co-op,  LLC  (the  "Unified  Co-op")  for  the  purpose  of  purchasing  certain
restaurant  products  and  equipment in the U.S. The core mission of the Unified
Co-op is to provide the lowest possible sustainable  store-delivered  prices for
restaurant  products and  equipment.  This  arrangement  combines the purchasing
power of the Company and franchisee  restaurants in the U.S.,  which the Company
believes  will further  leverage  the  system's  scale to drive cost savings and
effectiveness in the purchasing  function.  Annual purchasing volume for the new
Unified Co-op is expected to exceed $4 billion, making it the largest purchasing
cooperative of its kind in the QSR industry.  The Company also believes that the
Unified  Co-op should  result in an even closer  alignment  of  interests  and a
stronger relationship with its franchisee community.

     To ensure the wholesomeness of all food products, suppliers are required to
meet or  exceed  strict  quality  control  standards.  Long-term  contracts  and
long-term  vendor  relationships  have  been  used  to  ensure  availability  of
products.  The Company has not experienced any significant  continuous shortages
of supplies. Prices paid for these supplies may be subject to fluctuation.  When
prices  increase,  the  Company  may be able to  pass on such  increases  to its
customers, although there is no assurance this can be done in the future.

     Historically,  many  food  products,  paper  and  packaging  supplies,  and
equipment  used  in  the  operation  of  the  Company's  restaurants  have  been
distributed to individual Company units by PepsiCo Food Services ("PFS"),  which
was PepsiCo's restaurant distribution operation prior to its disposition in 1997
as  described  below.  PFS also sold and  distributed  these  same items to many
franchisees and licensees that operate in the three restaurant  systems,  though
principally to Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchised/licensed  units in the U.S. In
May 1997,  KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco Bell  entered  into a  five-year  Sales and
Distribution  Agreement  with PFS to  distribute  the majority of their food and
supplies for Company  stores,  subject to PFS  maintaining  certain  performance
levels.  The Sales and Distribution  Agreement became effective upon the closing
of the sale by PepsiCo of the  distribution  business of PFS to AmeriServe  Food
Distribution,  Inc.  ("AmeriServe"),  a subsidiary of Holberg Industries,  Inc.,
pursuant to a definitive agreement dated as of May 23, 1997, as amended.

     Effective as of November 1, 1998, the Company, KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
entered  into an amended and  restated  Sales and  Distribution  Agreement  with
AmeriServe (the "Amended AmeriServe Agreement") which provided for the extension
of the term of the original  agreement with PFS for an additional  period of two
and  one-half   years  to  January  2005.  The  Amended   AmeriServe   Agreement
substantially  modifies the way in which  distribution fees are calculated,  and
includes incentives for utilizing more efficient  distribution practices by both
parties. The Amended AmeriServe Agreement,  which continues to cover all Company
KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  restaurants in the U.S.  (including  Pizza Hut and
Taco Bell units sold  pursuant to the  Company's  refranchising  program),  also
provides  for a two and  one-half  year  renewal  option  that could  extend the
contract,  based on market  rates,  through  July  2007.  Under the terms of the
Amended AmeriServe  Agreement,  Company KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell restaurants
in the U.S. (the "Company Restaurants") may not, except in limited circumstances
which generally relate to availability of supply, use



alternative  distributors.  AmeriServe also provides  distribution services to a
substantial  portion of the Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchise system,  and, to a
lesser extent, the KFC franchise system.

     On January 31, 2000,  AmeriServe  filed for protection  under Chapter 11 of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  AmeriServe has advised the Company that it intends to
prepare  and file  with the  Bankruptcy  Court a plan of  reorganization  in the
future.

     The  Company,  the  Unified  Co-op and key  representatives  of the  Tricon
franchise  community are working  closely  together to  proactively  address the
AmeriServe  bankruptcy situation and develop appropriate  contingency plans. The
Company intends to take all actions  reasonably  necessary and prudent to ensure
continued supply of restaurant  products and equipment to the Tricon  restaurant
system,  and to  minimize  any  incremental  costs or  exposures  related to the
AmeriServe  bankruptcy.  The  significant  actions that the Company has taken to
date are described below.

     On February 2, 2000,  the Company  and another  major  AmeriServe  customer
agreed to provide a $150 million interim "debtor-in-possession" revolving credit
facility (the  "Facility") to  AmeriServe.  The Company  initially  committed to
provide up to $100 million under this Facility. However, the Company has reached
an agreement in  principle  to assign $30 million of its  commitment  to a third
party,  reducing  the  Company's  total  commitment  under the  Facility  to $70
million.  AmeriServe  has  advised the  Company  that it is actively  seeking to
arrange alternative debtor-in-possession financing to replace the Facility.

     In addition to the Company's  participation in the Facility, to help ensure
that the Tricon supply chain  continues to remain open, the Company has begun to
purchase (and take title to) supplies  directly from suppliers  (the  "Temporary
Direct Purchase Program") for use in Company Restaurants,  as well as for resale
to KFC,  Pizza  Hut and Taco  Bell  franchisees  and  licensees  who  previously
purchased supplies from AmeriServe (collectively,  the "Franchise Restaurants").
AmeriServe  has  agreed,  for the same  fee in  effect  prior to the  bankruptcy
filing,  to continue to be responsible for  distributing  supplies and providing
ordering,  inventory, billing and collection services to Company Restaurants and
Franchise Restaurants.  To date, this arrangement has been effective in ensuring
supplies to Company Restaurants and Franchise  Restaurants,  and the Company has
not experienced any significant supply interruption.

     Further, the Company has commenced contingency planning and believe that it
can arrange with an alternative distributor or distributors to meet the needs of
the Company  Restaurants  and Franchise  Restaurants  if AmeriServe is no longer
able to adequately  service those  Restaurants or if otherwise  permitted by the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court.

     As in most  bankruptcies  involving a primary supplier or distributor,  the
AmeriServe  bankruptcy poses certain risks and uncertainties to the Company,  as
well as to KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  franchisees  that rely on AmeriServe to
distribute  products to their  restaurants.  The more significant of these risks
and uncertainties are described below.  Significant adverse  developments in any
of these  risks or  uncertainties  could have a material  adverse  impact on the
Company's results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.

     The Company expects to incur costs in connection with the Temporary  Direct
Purchase Program,  including the cost of additional debt incurred to finance the
inventory  purchases and to carry the receivables  arising from inventory sales.
While the Company  believes  that  adequate  inventory  control and  collections
systems are in place,  it may also incur  costs  related to the  possibility  of
inventory obsolescence and uncollectible  receivables from its franchisees.  The
Company expects to mitigate,  if not fully offset, these costs through discounts
granted by  suppliers  for prompt  payments.  The Company  also expects to incur
certain  one-time  unusual  costs  as a  result  of the  AmeriServe  bankruptcy,
primarily consisting of professional fees.



     The Company  intends to continue to work with  AmeriServe  and suppliers to
meet the Company's supply needs while AmeriServe seeks to reorganize. Due to the
uncertainties  surrounding  AmeriServe's  reorganization,   the  Company  cannot
predict  the  ultimate  impact,  if  any,  on its  businesses.  There  can be no
assurance  that  the  Facility  will be  sufficient  to meet  AmeriServe's  cash
requirements  or that the  Company  will be able to  fully  recover  the  amount
advanced under the Facility.  There can be no assurance that  AmeriServe will be
successful   in   arranging   replacement   debtor-in-possession   financing  on
satisfactory  terms,  or  that a plan  of  reorganization  for  AmeriServe  will
ultimately  be  confirmed,  or  if  confirmed,   what  the  plan  will  provide.
Additionally, there can be no assurance that AmeriServe will be able to maintain
the  Company's  supply line  indefinitely  without  additional  financing  or at
current contractual rates.

     Each of the Concepts  currently has a multi-year  contract with  AmeriServe
which  is  subject  to  the  U.S.   Bankruptcy  Court   procedures   during  the
reorganization  process.  As stated  above,  the  Company  believes  that it can
arrange with an alternative distributor or distributors to meet the needs of the
Company Restaurants and Franchise Restaurants if AmeriServe is no longer able to
adequately  service  those  restaurants  or if  otherwise  permitted by the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court. The Company could, however,  experience some short-term delays
due to the time  required to qualify  and  contract  with,  and  transition  the
business to,  other  distributors.  There can be no  assurance  that the cost of
these  alternatives  would be at the  same  rates  the  Company  currently  pays
AmeriServe.

     The Company believes that it may have a set-off or recoupment claim against
amounts  owed  by the  Concepts  to  AmeriServe  under  the  Amended  AmeriServe
Agreement that would allow the Company to recover certain costs and damages that
it has  incurred (or may incur) as a result of  AmeriServe's  failure to perform
its contractual  obligations to Company  Restaurants both prior to and after the
bankruptcy filing.  While the Company intends to assert this claim, there can be
no assurance that it will be successful.

     Without  regard  to  the  final  outcome  of  the   AmeriServe   bankruptcy
proceedings, it is the Company's intention to take whatever steps are reasonably
required to ensure continued supply of restaurant  products and equipment to the
Tricon  restaurant  system.  To  the  extent  the  Company  incurs  any  ongoing
incremental  costs as a result of the AmeriServe  bankruptcy or actions  related
thereto,  it intends to  mitigate  those costs to the  maximum  extent  possible
through other reasonable management actions.

     Tricon,  KFC,  Pizza  Hut,  Taco Bell and  Tricon  International  have also
entered into multi-year agreements with Pepsi-Cola Company regarding the sale of
Pepsi-Cola beverage products at Company stores.

     Strong Cash Flow

     As indicated in Items 7 and 8, the Company has generated  significant  cash
flows from operating  activities and through its global  refranchising  program.
This cash flow has funded existing  operations,  capital  expenditures  and debt
reduction  of over  $2.1  billion  since the  Spin-off.  This cash flow has also
allowed the Company to fund  investment  in existing and new  restaurant  units,
product innovation and quality, improved operating platforms leading to improved
service,  information technology systems,  store-level human resources including
recruiting and training and creative marketing programs. Additionally, this cash
flow permitted the Company to repurchase 3.3 million shares of its stock through
the end of 1999 under the Company's share repurchase program.

     A discussion of the Company's financing activities, cash flow and liquidity
is contained in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 20 through 41.



     U.S. Growth Opportunities

     Tricon believes it has many  opportunities  to achieve growth in both sales
per unit and distribution channels in its U.S. businesses due to the following:

     Daypart  Expansion.  The  Company's  strengths in market  research and R&D,
combined  with  underdeveloped  dayparts  (segments of each business day) in all
three Concepts provide an opportunity to increase the average sales per unit. In
1999,  almost  two-thirds of KFC and  approximately  three-quarters of Pizza Hut
system sales occurred during the dinner  occasion.  At Taco Bell,  approximately
half of its  system  sales  occurred  during the lunch  occasion,  with about 45
percent occurring at dinner and the remainder during snacking hours.

     Channel   Expansion.   The  Company   believes  that   significant   growth
opportunities  exist with respect to delivery services.  The Company's products,
especially  chicken  and  pizza,  are well  suited  to  delivery  because  their
relatively  long holding  times allow them to be delivered hot and ready to eat.
Today,  Pizza Hut has a  well-developed  delivery  system and over 450 KFC units
currently offer some delivery services. In addition,  the Company believes there
is  opportunity  to  innovate  with  respect to the type of unit that best meets
consumer  needs.  Some of the  alternative  channels that are under  development
include  non-traditional  units  such as Taco Bell  Express  in  venues  such as
shopping malls, food courts, airports, gas and convenience stores, and schools.

     Multi-Branding.   The  Company  is  actively   pursuing   the  strategy  of
multi-branding,  where  two or more of its  Concepts  are  operated  in a single
restaurant  unit. As of year-end 1999,  there were 647 system units housing more
than one  Concept.  By combining  two or more of its  Concepts in one  location,
particularly  those  that have  complementary  daypart  strengths,  the  Company
believes it can  generate  higher sales  volumes from such units,  significantly
improve returns on per unit  investment,  and enhance its ability to penetrate a
greater number of trade areas throughout the U.S.  Through the  consolidation of
market planning  initiatives  across all three of its Concepts,  the Company has
established multi-year development plans by trade area to optimize franchise and
company penetration of all three Concepts and to improve returns on its existing
asset base. The development of these multi-branded units may be limited, in some
instances, by prior development and/or territory rights granted to franchisees.

     International Growth Opportunities

     Focus on Key Growth Markets. Following the Spin-off, the Company redirected
its international ownership strategy to focus on building Company stores in what
it believes  are high growth  potential  markets  where it can more  efficiently
leverage its scale,  while increasing  franchise  penetration  through franchise
development and refranchising in other international markets. As an example, the
Company has  demonstrated  considerable  success in  penetrating  Asian emerging
markets,  with some of its highest  volume stores in the world being operated in
China. In the future, the Company intends to focus a significant  portion of its
new-unit capital on this and other high growth potential markets.

     Underdeveloped  Presence.  Although  the Company and its  franchisees  have
established a presence in 104 countries and territories, many of these countries
are still  underpenetrated  considering not only population size and growth, but
also per capita  purchasing power. Even in countries which have populations with
similar per capita  purchasing  power, the ratio of stores per million people is
still far  below  that  found in the U.S.,  and the  Company  believes  there is
significant  opportunity to leverage an increasing demand for convenient,  fully
prepared foods in those countries.

     Scale Advantages. Tricon International has the ability to leverage not only
the  scale  advantages  of  administration,  purchasing  and  R&D,  but also the
experience of the  Company's  U.S.  operations  to quickly  identify new product
opportunities for local markets.



     Human Resources and Management

     The  Company  believes  that  high  quality,   customer-focused  restaurant
management  is critical to its  long-term  success.  It also  believes  that its
leadership  position,  strong  results-oriented  and  recognition  culture,  and
various training and incentive programs help attract and retain highly motivated
restaurant  general  managers  ("RGMs") who are committed to providing  superior
customer  satisfaction and outstanding  business  results.  The Company believes
that having a high quality  restaurant manager in a unit for a meaningful tenure
is one of the most important  factors in a unit's  ability to achieve  excellent
results in the areas of sales, profits and overall guest satisfaction.

     The Company's  restaurant  management  structure varies by concept and unit
size. Generally,  each Company restaurant is led by an RGM, together with one or
more assistant managers,  depending on the operating complexity and sales volume
of the  restaurant.  Each  restaurant  usually  has  between  10  and 35  hourly
employees,  most of whom work part-time.  The Company's four operating companies
each issue detailed manuals covering all aspects of their respective operations,
including food handling and product preparation  procedures,  safety and quality
issues, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting procedures. The
restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each
unit and for ensuring  compliance  with operating  standards.  RGMs' efforts are
monitored by area managers or market coaches,  who work with  approximately nine
to eleven restaurants.  The Company's  restaurants are visited from time to time
by various senior operators within their respective organizations to help ensure
adherence to system standards.

     RGMs attend and complete  their  respective  operating  company's  required
training  programs.  These  programs  consist  of initial  training,  as well as
additional  continuing  development and training programs that may be offered or
required from time to time.  Initial manager training programs generally last at
least six weeks  and  emphasize  leadership,  business  management,  supervisory
skills (including training,  coaching, and recruiting),  product preparation and
production,  safety, quality control,  customer service,  labor management,  and
equipment maintenance.

     Sale of Non-Core Concepts

     In late 1996,  the  Company  set a strategy  to focus  human and  financial
resources  on growing the sales and  profitability  of its core  Concepts.  As a
result, the non-core restaurant  businesses of California Pizza Kitchen,  Chevys
Mexican Restaurant,  D'Angelo's Sandwich Shops, East Side Mario's and Hot 'n Now
(the "Non-core  Businesses") were sold in 1997. The operations of these Non-core
Businesses were not material to the operations of Tricon.

Information  about the Non-core  Businesses  is included in MD&A and the related
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 7, pages 20
through 41; and Part II, Item 8, pages 42 through 81, respectively, of this Form
10-K.

     Trademarks and Patents

     The Company has  numerous  registered  trademarks  and service  marks.  The
Company  believes  that  many of  these  marks,  including  its  Kentucky  Fried
Chicken(R),  KFC(R), Pizza Hut(R) and Taco Bell(R) trademarks,  have significant
value and are materially  important to its business.  The Company's policy is to
pursue registration of its important  trademarks whenever possible and to oppose
vigorously  any  infringement  of its  trademarks.  The  use  of  the  Company's
trademarks by  franchisees  and licensees has been  authorized in KFC, Pizza Hut
and Taco Bell  franchise  and  license  agreements.  Under  current law and with
proper use, the Company's  rights in its trademarks can last  indefinitely.  The
Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment, which, while valuable,
are not material to its business.



     Working Capital

     Information about the Company's working capital is included in MD&A in Part
II, Item 7, pages 20 through 41 of this Form 10-K.

     Customers

     The  Company's  business is not dependent  upon a single  customer or small
group of customers.

     Seasonal Operations

     The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material
degree.

     Backlog Orders

     Company restaurants have no backlog orders.

     Government Contracts

     No material  portion of the Company's  business is subject to renegotiation
of profits or  termination of contracts or  subcontracts  at the election of the
U.S. government.

     Competition

     The  overall  food  service  industry  and the QSR  segment  are  intensely
competitive  with  respect  to  food  quality,   price,  service,   convenience,
restaurant  location and concept.  The restaurant  business is often affected by
changes in consumer  tastes;  national,  regional or local economic  conditions;
currency  fluctuations;  demographic trends;  traffic patterns; the type, number
and location of competing  restaurants;  and disposable  purchasing  power.  The
Company competes within each market with national and regional chains as well as
locally-owned  restaurants,  not only for customers, but also for management and
hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.

     Research and Development

     The Company operates R&D facilities in Louisville, Kentucky; Dallas, Texas;
and Irvine, California. The Company expensed $24 million in 1999 and $21 million
in both 1998 and 1997 for R&D activities.

     Environmental Matters

     The Company is not aware of any federal,  state or local environmental laws
or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position,
or result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot predict
the effect on its  operations of possible  future  environmental  legislation or
regulations.  During  1999,  there were no  material  capital  expenditures  for
environmental   control  facilities  and  no  such  material   expenditures  are
anticipated.

     Government Regulation

     U.S.  The  Company  is subject  to  various  federal,  state and local laws
affecting  its  business.  Each of the  Company's  restaurants  must comply with
licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities,  which include
health,  sanitation,  safety and fire agencies in the state or  municipality  in
which the  restaurant  is



located.  In addition,  each of the Tricon operating  companies must comply with
various  state laws that  regulate the  franchisor/franchisee  relationship.  To
date, the Company has not been significantly  affected by any difficulty,  delay
or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.

     A small  portion of Pizza  Hut's net sales is  attributable  to the sale of
beer and wine.  A license  is  required  in most  cases for each site that sells
alcoholic  beverages  (in most cases,  on an annual  basis) and  licenses may be
revoked or suspended  for cause at any time.  Regulations  governing the sale of
alcoholic beverages relate to many aspects of restaurant  operations,  including
the minimum  age of patrons  and  employees,  hours of  operation,  advertising,
wholesale purchasing,  inventory control and handling, storage and dispensing of
alcoholic beverages.

     The  Company  is also  subject to federal  and state  laws  governing  such
matters as  employment  and pay  practices,  overtime,  tip  credits and working
conditions.  The bulk of the Company's  employees are paid on an hourly basis at
rates related to the federal minimum wage.

     The  Company is also  subject to federal  and state child labor laws which,
among  other  things,  prohibit  the use of  certain  "hazardous  equipment"  by
employees  18  years  of age or  younger.  The  Company  has  not to  date  been
materially adversely affected by such laws.

     The Company  continues to monitor its facilities  for  compliance  with the
Americans With Disabilities Act ("ADA") in order to conform to its requirements.
Under the ADA,  the  Company  could be  required  to expend  funds to modify its
restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable  accommodation  for
the employment of, disabled persons. Expenditures, if required, would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operations.

     International.  Internationally,  the Company's  restaurants are subject to
national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting the
Company's U.S.  restaurants,  including laws and regulations  concerning  labor,
health, sanitation and safety. The international restaurants are also subject to
tariffs  and  regulations  on  imported   commodities  and  equipment  and  laws
regulating  foreign  investment.  International  compliance  with  environmental
requirements has not had a material  adverse effect on the Company's  results of
operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.

     Employees

     At year-end  1999,  the Company  employed  approximately  210,000  persons,
approximately 70 percent of whom were part-time employees.  Nearly 70 percent of
the Company's  employees  are employed in the U.S. The Company  believes that it
provides working  conditions and compensation  that compare favorably with those
of its  principal  competitors.  Most  Company  employees  are paid on an hourly
basis. About 2 percent of the Company's U.S. employees are covered by collective
bargaining agreements.  The Company's non-U.S. employees are subject to numerous
labor council  relationships  that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the
Company operates. The Company considers its employee relations to be good.

     d)  Financial Information about International and U.S. Operations

     Financial  information about International and U.S. markets is incorporated
herein  by  reference  from  Selected  Financial  Data,  MD&A  and  the  related
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  footnotes in Part II, Item 6, page 19;
Part II,  Item 7, pages 20 through 41; and Part II, Item 8, pages 42 through 81,
respectively, of this Form 10-K.



Item 2.   Properties.

     As of year-end 1999,  Tricon  Concepts owned  approximately  800 and leased
approximately   4,200  units  in  the  U.S.;  and  Tricon   International  owned
approximately 1,200 and leased  approximately 800 units outside the U.S. Company
restaurants  in the U.S.  which are not owned are  generally  leased for initial
terms of 15 or 20 years and generally have renewal options;  however,  Pizza Hut
delivery/carryout  units in the U.S.  generally  are  leased  for  significantly
shorter  initial terms with short  renewal  options.  Unconsolidated  Affiliates
owned or leased approximately 1,200 units. Tricon leases Tricon  International's
and Pizza Hut's corporate  headquarters in Dallas,  Texas.  Taco Bell leases its
corporate  headquarters  in  Irvine,  California  and  KFC  owns  its  corporate
headquarters  and a research  facility in  Louisville,  Kentucky.  In  addition,
Tricon owns an office facility in Wichita,  Kansas (the "Wichita  Facility") and
leases office facilities for accounting  services in both Louisville,  Kentucky,
and Albuquerque,  New Mexico. In 1998, the primary  operations  conducted at the
Wichita Facility were relocated to Louisville,  Kentucky, and Dallas, Texas, and
the facility was closed.  The Company expects to sell the Wichita  Facility at a
price which  should at least  recover its current  carrying  amount,  but cannot
estimate the timing of such a sale at this time.  Additional  information  about
the Company's  properties is included in the Consolidated  Financial  Statements
and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 42 through 81, of this Form 10-K.

     The Company  believes that its  properties  are generally in good operating
condition and are suitable for the purposes for which they are being used.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.

     The  Company  is subject to  various  claims and  contingencies  related to
lawsuits, taxes, real estate, environmental and other matters arising out of the
normal  course of business.  The  following is a brief  description  of the more
significant of these categories of lawsuits and other matters.  Except as stated
below,  the Company believes that the ultimate  liability,  if any, in excess of
amounts already provided for in these matters,  is not likely to have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  annual  results  of  operations,  financial
condition or cash flows.

     Franchising

     A  substantial  number  of the  Company's  restaurants  are  franchised  to
independent  business people operating under  arrangements with the Company.  In
the course of the franchise relationship,  occasional disputes arise between the
Company and its  franchisees  relating to a broad range of subjects,  including,
without  limitation,  quality,  service,  and  cleanliness  issues,  contentions
regarding grants, transfers or terminations of franchises,  territorial disputes
and delinquent payments.

     Employees

     At any given time,  the Company  employs  hundreds of thousands of persons,
primarily in its restaurants.  In addition,  thousands of persons,  from time to
time, seek employment with the Company and its  restaurants.  From time to time,
disputes  arise  regarding  employee  hiring,   compensation,   termination  and
promotion practices.

     Like some other retail  employers,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell  recently  have
been faced in a few states with  allegations  of purported  class-wide  wage and
hour violations.

     On May 11, 1998, a purported  class action lawsuit against Pizza Hut, Inc.,
and one of its franchisees,  PacPizza,  LLC, entitled  Aguardo,  et al. v. Pizza
Hut, Inc., et al.  ("Aguardo"),  was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California of the County of San Francisco. The lawsuit was filed by three former
Pizza Hut



restaurant  general  managers  purporting to represent  approximately
1,300 current and former California restaurant general managers of Pizza Hut and
PacPizza.  The lawsuit alleges  violations of state wage and hour laws involving
unpaid  overtime  wages  and  vacation  pay and seeks an  unspecified  amount in
damages. On January 12, 2000, the Court certified a class of approximately 1,300
current and former  restaurant  general  managers.  This lawsuit is in the early
discovery phase.

     On  October  2, 1996,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled Mynaf, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Mynaf"),  was filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California  of the County of Santa Clara.  The lawsuit was
filed  by two  former  restaurant  general  managers  and two  former  assistant
restaurant general managers  purporting to represent all current and former Taco
Bell restaurant  general managers and assistant  restaurant  general managers in
California.  The lawsuit  alleges  violations of  California  wage and hour laws
involving  unpaid overtime wages. The complaint also includes an unfair business
practices claim. The four named plaintiffs claim individual damages ranging from
$10,000 to $100,000 each. On September 17, 1998, the court  certified a class of
approximately 3,000 current and former assistant restaurant general managers and
restaurant general managers.  Taco Bell petitioned the appellate court to review
the trial court's  certification  order. The petition was denied on December 31,
1998.  Taco Bell then filed a petition  for review with the  California  Supreme
Court,  and the petition was subsequently  denied.  Class notices were mailed on
August 31, 1999 to over 3,400 class  members.  Discovery  has  commenced,  and a
trial date has been set for July 10, 2000.

     On August  29,  1997,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled  Bravo, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Bravo"),  was filed in the Circuit
Court of the State of Oregon of the County of  Multnomah.  The lawsuit was filed
by two former Taco Bell shift  managers  purporting  to represent  approximately
17,000  current and former  hourly  employees  statewide.  The  lawsuit  alleges
violations  of state  wage and hour laws,  principally  involving  unpaid  wages
including  overtime,  and  rest  and  meal  period  violations,   and  seeks  an
unspecified amount in damages.  Under Oregon class action procedures,  Taco Bell
was allowed an  opportunity  to "cure" the unpaid wage and hour  allegations  by
opening a claims process to all putative class members prior to certification of
the class.  In this cure process,  Taco Bell has currently paid out less than $1
million.  On January 26,  1999,  the Court  certified a class of all current and
former  shift  managers  and crew  members  who claim one or more of the alleged
violations. The lawsuit is in the discovery and pre-trial motions phase. A trial
date of November 2, 1999 was set. However, on November 1, 1999, the Court issued
a proposed  order  postponing  the trial and  establishing  a  pre-trial  claims
process. The final order regarding the claims process was entered on January 14,
2000.  Taco  Bell  moved  for  certification  of  an  immediate  appeal  of  the
Court-ordered  claims  process  and  requested a stay of the  proceedings.  This
motion was denied on  February  8, 2000,  and Taco Bell  intends to appeal  this
decision to the Supreme Court of Oregon. A Court-approved  notice and claim form
was mailed to approximately 14,500 class members on January 31, 2000.

     We have  provided for the estimated  costs of the Aguardo,  Mynaf and Bravo
litigations, based on a projection of eligible claims (including claims filed to
date, where applicable), the cost of each eligible claim and the estimated legal
fees incurred by plaintiffs.  Although the outcome of these  lawsuits  cannot be
determined  at this time,  we believe the ultimate cost of these cases in excess
of the amounts  already  provided will not be material to our annual  results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     On February 10, 1995, a class action  lawsuit,  entitled  Ryder,  et al. v.
Taco  Bell  Corp.  ("Ryder"),  was filed in the  Superior  Court of the State of
Washington for King County on behalf of approximately  16,000 current and former
Taco Bell employees  claiming unpaid wages resulting from alleged uniform,  rest
and meal  period  violations  and  unpaid  overtime.  In April  1996,  the Court
certified the class for purposes of injunctive relief and a finding on the issue
of  liability.  The trial was held during the first quarter of 1997 and resulted
in a  liability  finding.  In August  1997,  the Court  certified  the class for
purposes  of  damages as well.  Prior to the  damages  phase of the  trial,  the
parties  reached  a  court-approved   settlement  process  in  April  1998.  The
settlement process is substantially  complete,  with less than 50 claims left to
be resolved. We have provided for the estimated cost of settling these remaining
claims.



     Customers

     The Company's  restaurants  serve a large and diverse  cross-section of the
public and in the course of serving so many  people,  disputes  arise  regarding
products,  service,  accidents  and other  matters  typical of large  restaurant
systems such as those of the Company.

     Trademarks

     The Company has registered  trademarks and service marks, many of which are
of material importance to the Company's business. From time to time, the Company
may  become  involved  in  litigation  to  defend  and  protect  its use of such
registered marks.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     None.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  executive  officers of the Company as of February 28, 2000,  and their
ages and current positions as of that date are as follows:

 Name                       Age     Position
 ----                       ---     --------

David C. Novak              47      Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
                                     Officer and President

David J. Deno               42      Chief Financial Officer

Gregg R. Dedrick            40      Executive Vice President, People and Shared
                                     Services

Aylwin B. Lewis             45      Executive Vice President, Operations and New
                                     Business Development

Christian L. Campbell       49      Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
                                     Secretary

Robert L. Carleton          59      Senior Vice President and Controller

Jonathan D. Blum            41      Senior Vice President - Public Affairs

Mark S. Cosby               41      Chief Development Officer

Peter A. Bassi              50      President, Tricon Restaurants International

Charles E. Rawley, III      49      President and Chief Operating Officer, KFC

Michael S. Rawlings         45      President and Chief Concept Officer, Pizza
                                     Hut

Peter C. Waller             45      President and Chief Concept Officer, Taco
                                     Bell

Peter R. Hearl              48      Executive Vice President, Tricon Restaurants
                                     International

Terry D. Davenport          42      Chief Concept Officer and Chief Marketing
                                     Officer, KFC

Michael A. Miles, Jr        38      Chief Operating Officer, Pizza Hut

Robert T. Nilsen            40      Chief Operating Officer, Taco Bell



     David C. Novak is Vice Chairman of the Board,  Chief Executive  Officer and
President  of Tricon.  From  October  1997 to December  1999,  he served as Vice
Chairman and President of Tricon. Mr. Novak previously served as Group President
and Chief  Executive  Officer,  KFC and Pizza Hut from August 1996 to July 1997.
Mr. Novak joined Pizza Hut in 1986 as Senior Vice President, Marketing. In 1990,
he became Executive Vice President, Marketing and National Sales, for Pepsi-Cola
Company.  In 1992 he became Chief Operating  Officer,  Pepsi-Cola North America,
and in 1994 he  became  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of KFC  North
America.

     David J. Deno is Chief Financial  Officer of Tricon.  He has served in this
position since November 1999. From August 1997 to November 1999, Mr. Deno served
as Senior  Vice  President  and Chief  Financial  Officer of Tricon  Restaurants
International.  From August 1996 to August 1997,  Mr. Deno served as Senior Vice
President and Chief  Financial  Officer for Pizza Hut. From 1994 to August 1996,
Mr. Deno was Division Vice  President  for the Southeast  Division of Pizza Hut.
Mr. Deno joined Pizza Hut in 1991 as Vice President and Controller.

     Gregg R. Dedrick is Executive  Vice  President and Chief People Officer for
Tricon.  From July 1997 to November 1999, he served as Senior Vice President and
Chief People Officer.  Mr. Dedrick  previously  served as Senior Vice President,
Human  Resources,  for Pizza Hut and KFC,  a position  he  assumed in 1996.  Mr.
Dedrick  joined  Pepsi-Cola  Company in 1981 and held various  personnel-related
positions  with  Pepsi-Cola  from  1981 to  1994.  In  1994,  he  became  a Vice
President,  Human  Resources  for Pizza Hut,  and in 1995 he became  Senior Vice
President of Human Resources for KFC.

     Aylwin B. Lewis is Executive  Vice  President,  Operations and New Business
Development  for  Tricon.  From July 1997 to December  1999,  he served as Chief
Operating  Officer of Pizza Hut.  Mr.  Lewis  previously  served as Senior  Vice
President, Operations for Pizza Hut, a position he assumed in 1996. He served in
various  positions at KFC,  including  Senior  Director of Franchising  and Vice
President of restaurant  Support  Services,  becoming  Division Vice  President,
Operations for KFC in 1993, and Senior Vice  President,  New Concepts for KFC in
1995. Mr. Lewis joined KFC in 1991 as a Regional General Manager.

     Christian  L.  Campbell  is Senior  Vice  President,  General  Counsel  and
Secretary of Tricon.  He has served in this position since  September 1997. From
1995 to September 1997, Mr.  Campbell  served as Senior Vice President,  General
Counsel and Secretary of Owens  Corning,  a building  products  company.  Before
joining Owens Corning,  Mr. Campbell  served as Vice President,  General Counsel
and  Secretary of Nalco  Chemical  Company in  Naperville,  Illinois,  from 1990
through 1994.

     Robert L. Carleton is Senior Vice  President and  Controller of Tricon.  He
has served in this position since August 1997. Mr. Carleton previously served as
Senior Vice  President  and  Controller  for PepsiCo  from August 1982 to August
1997.

     Jonathan D. Blum is Senior Vice President of Public Affairs for Tricon.  He
has served in this position since July 1997. Mr. Blum previously  served as Vice
President of Public Affairs for Taco Bell, a position that he held since joining
Taco Bell in 1993.

     Mark S. Cosby is Chief Development Officer at Tricon. He has served in this
position since September 1997. From August 1996 to September 1997, Mr. Cosby was
Senior Vice President Operations  Development for KFC. From March 1993 to August
1996,  he held various  positions at KFC including  Vice  President of Planning,
Vice  President of  Purchasing,  and Vice  President of Operations for the North
Central Division. Mr. Cosby joined PepsiCo with Taco Bell in 1988.



     Peter A. Bassi is President  of Tricon  Restaurants  International.  He has
served in this  position  since July 1997.  Mr. Bassi  served as Executive  Vice
President, Asia, of PepsiCo Restaurants International from February 1996 to July
1997.  From 1995 to 1996 he served as Senior Vice President and Chief  Financial
Officer  at  PepsiCo  Restaurants  International.   He  served  as  Senior  Vice
President,  Finance and Chief Financial  Officer at Taco Bell from 1987 to 1994.
He joined Pepsi-Cola Company in 1972 and served in various management  positions
at Frito-Lay, Pizza Hut and PepsiCo Food Service International.

     Charles E. Rawley, III is President and Chief Operating Officer of KFC. Mr.
Rawley assumed his position of Chief Operating  Officer in 1995 and President in
1998.  Mr. Rawley joined KFC in 1985 as a Director of  Operations.  He served as
Vice  President  of  Operations  for  the  Southwest,   West,   Northeast,   and
Mid-Atlantic  Divisions from 1988 to 1994, when he became Senior Vice President,
Concept Development for KFC.

     Michael S. Rawlings is President and Chief Concept Officer of Pizza Hut. He
has served in this position  since July 1997.  From 1991 to 1996,  Mr.  Rawlings
served  as  Chairman,  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer  of DDB  Needham
Worldwide  Dallas Group, a position he held following the merger of Tracy-Locke,
Inc. into DDB Needham.  Previously,  Mr.  Rawlings was General Manager and Chief
Operating Officer of Tracy-Locke, Inc., a position he assumed in 1989.

     Peter C. Waller is President and Chief Concept Officer of Taco Bell. He has
served in this  position  since  July 1997.  Mr.  Waller  served as Senior  Vice
President  of  Marketing  of Taco  Bell  from  December  1995 to June  1997.  He
previously  held the position of Senior Vice President of Marketing for KFC from
August 1994 to December 1995. He joined PepsiCo in 1990 as Managing Director for
Western Europe,  and subsequently spent two years as Regional Marketing Director
for KFC for the South Pacific and South Africa.

     Peter  R.  Hearl  is  Executive  Vice   President  of  Tricon   Restaurants
International.  He has served in this position  since  December  1998.  Prior to
that, he was Region Vice President for Tricon Restaurants  International in Asia
Pacific,  a position he assumed in October  1997.  From March 1996 to  September
1997, Mr. Hearl was Regional Vice President for Tricon Restaurants International
with responsibility for Australia,  New Zealand and South Africa. Prior to that,
he was  Regional  Vice  President  for KFC with  responsibility  for the  United
Kingdom,  Ireland and South Africa,  a position he assumed in January 1995. From
September  1993 to December  1994, Mr. Hearl was Regional Vice President for KFC
Europe.

     Terry D. Davenport is Chief Concept Officer and Chief Marketing  Officer of
KFC. He has served in this position  since October 1998.  From September 1997 to
October  1998 he was Chief  Marketing  Officer  of KFC.  From  February  1997 to
September  1997 he was Chief  Marketing  Officer for Einstein  Bagels in Golden,
Colorado.  From  September  1994 to February 1997 he was Sr. Vice  President for
Arby's in Ft. Lauderdale,  Florida. From June 1991 to September 1994 he was Vice
President, Marketing for Taco Bell in Irvine, California.

     Michael A.  Miles,  Jr. is Chief  Operating  Officer  of Pizza Hut.  He has
served in this position since January 2000.  From May 1996 to December 1999, Mr.
Miles served as Senior Vice President,  Concept Development and Franchise.  From
December 1994 to April 1996,  he was Division Vice  President for Pizza Hut. Mr.
Miles joined PepsiCo in May 1993 as Director of Strategic Planning.

     Robert T. Nilsen is Chief Operating  Officer of Taco Bell. He has served in
this position  since January  2000.  From January 1999 to December  1999, he was
Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Tricon Restaurants  International
brands in the South  Pacific.  From October 1997 to January  1999,  he served as
Vice President and Managing Director of Tricon Restaurants  International brands
in the South  Pacific.  From April 1996 to October  1997,  Mr. Nilsen was Region
Vice  President of Tricon  Restaurants  International  with



responsibility  for franchise  operations across South Asia, the Middle East and
Hawaii.  From 1995 to April 1996, he was Managing Director for KFC and Pizza Hut
in Southern Africa.

     Executive  officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board
of Directors.

                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
           Matters.

     The Company's Common Stock trades under the symbol YUM and is listed on the
New York Stock  Exchange.  The  following  sets forth the high and low composite
closing sale prices by quarter of the Company's Common Stock.

                        1999                               1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter         High             Low               High            Low
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First         $ 69 1/2         $ 46              $ 30 5/8        $ 25 15/16
Second          73 1/2           50 1/4            33 1/8          29 9/16
Third           56 3/8           35 3/4            40 3/4          29 15/16
Fourth          45 1/8           37 11/16          49 1/2          33 1/4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The approximate  number of  shareholders of record of the Company's  common
stock as of February 28, 2000 was 156,000.

The Company does not presently intend to pay dividends on its common stock.




N/A - Not Applicable.

TRICON  Global   Restaurants,   Inc.  and  Subsidiaries   ("TRICON")  became  an
independent,  publicly  owned company on October 6, 1997 through the spin-off of
the  restaurant  operations  of  its  former  parent,   PepsiCo,  Inc.,  to  its
shareholders.  The historical consolidated financial data for 1997 and the prior
years  above were  prepared  as if we had been an  independent,  publicly  owned
company for all periods presented. The selected financial data should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto.
(1)  Excludes Non-core Businesses.
(2)  Includes $13 million ($10 million  after-tax)  and $54 million ($33 million
     after-tax) of favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth  quarter charge in
     1999 and 1998, respectively,  $410 million ($300 million after-tax) related
     to our  fourth  quarter  charge  in 1997 and  $457  million  ($324  million
     after-tax)  related  to  the  early  adoption  of  Statement  of  Financial
     Accounting  Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment Of Long-Lived
     Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" in 1995.
(3)  Includes $11 million ($10  million  after-tax)  and $11 million ($7 million
     after-tax) of favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth  quarter charge in
     1999 and 1998,  respectively.  1997  includes  $120 million  ($125  million
     after-tax)  related to our 1997 fourth quarter charge and an additional $54
     million  ($34  million  after-tax)  related  to the  1997  disposal  of the
     Non-core  Businesses.  1996 includes $246 million ($189 million  after-tax)
     write-down  of our  Non-core  Businesses.  See  Note 5 to the  Consolidated
     Financial Statements.
(4)  EPS data has been omitted for 1997 and prior years as our capital structure
     as an independent, publicly owned company did not exist for those years.



Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
           Results of Operations.

     Introduction

     TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries (collectively referred to
as "TRICON" or the  "Company") is comprised of the worldwide  operations of KFC,
Pizza Hut and Taco Bell (the "Core  Business(es)")  and is the  world's  largest
quick service  restaurant  ("QSR")  company based on the number of system units.
Separately,  each  brand  ranks in the top ten among QSR  chains in U.S.  system
sales and units. Our 9,000 plus  international  units make us the second largest
QSR company outside the United States.

     Throughout  Management  Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A"), we make reference
to ongoing  operating profit which represents our operating profit excluding the
impact  of  our   accounting  and  human   resources   policy  changes  in  1999
(collectively,  the "accounting changes"), facility actions net gain and unusual
items.  See  Note 5 to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for a  detailed
discussion  of  these  exclusions.  We use  ongoing  operating  profit  as a key
performance  measure of our results of  operations  for  purposes of  evaluating
performance  internally and as the base to forecast future performance.  Ongoing
operating  profit is not a measure  defined  in  generally  accepted  accounting
principles  ("GAAP")  and  should  not  be  considered  in  isolation  or  as  a
substitution for measures of performance in accordance with GAAP.

     In 1999, our international  business accounted for 33% of system sales, 27%
of total revenues and 25% of operating  profit before  unallocated and corporate
expenses, gains and losses from foreign exchange,  accounting changes,  facility
actions net gain and unusual  items.  We anticipate  that,  despite the inherent
risks and  generally  higher  general and  administrative  expenses  required by
international  operations,  we will  continue  to  invest  in key  international
markets with substantial growth potential.

     TRICON  became an  independent,  publicly  owned company on October 6, 1997
(the  "Spin-off  Date") via a tax free  distribution  of our  Common  Stock (the
"Distribution" or "Spin-off") to the shareholders of our former parent, PepsiCo,
Inc.  ("PepsiCo").  See  Notes  2,  11  and  21 to  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.  For purposes of this MD&A, we include the  worldwide  operations of
our Core Businesses and, through their respective dates of disposal in 1997, our
U.S. non-core businesses.  These non-core businesses consist of California Pizza
Kitchen, Chevys Mexican Restaurant, D'Angelo's Sandwich Shops, East Side Mario's
and Hot `n Now  (collectively the "Non-core  Businesses").  Where significant to
the discussion, we separately identify the impact of the Non-core Businesses.

     This MD&A should be read in  conjunction  with our  Consolidated  Financial
Statements on pages 43 - 81 and the  Cautionary  Statements on page 41. All Note
references herein refer to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
pages 47 - 81.  Tabular  amounts are displayed in millions  except per share and
unit count amounts, or as specifically identified.

Factors Affecting Comparability of 1999 Results to 1998

     1997 Fourth Quarter Charge
     --------------------------

     In the fourth  quarter of 1997, we recorded a $530 million  unusual  charge
($425 million after-tax). The charge included estimates for (1) costs of closing
stores, primarily at Pizza Hut and internationally; (2) reduction to fair market
value,  less costs to sell, of the carrying  amounts of certain  restaurants  we
intended to refranchise;  (3) impairment of certain  restaurants  intended to be
used in the business;  (4) impairment of certain  investments in  unconsolidated
affiliates to be retained; and (5) costs of related personnel reductions.



     During 1999 and 1998, we continued to  re-evaluate  our prior  estimates of
the  fair  market  value  of  units  to be  refranchised  or  closed  and  other
liabilities  arising from the charge. In 1999, we made favorable  adjustments of
$13 million ($10  million  after-tax)  and $11 million  ($10 million  after-tax)
included in facility  actions net gain and unusual  items,  respectively.  These
adjustments  related to  lower-than-expected  losses  from stores  disposed  of,
decisions to retain stores originally  expected to be disposed of and changes in
estimated  costs.  In 1998,  favorable  adjustments  of $54 million ($33 million
after-tax)  and $11  million ($7 million  after-tax)  were  included in facility
actions net gain and unusual items,  respectively.  These adjustments  primarily
related to decisions to retain certain stores originally expected to be disposed
of,  lower-than-expected  losses from stores  disposed  of and  favorable  lease
settlements with certain lessors related to stores closed. At December 25, 1999,
we had  completed the actions  covered by the charge.  See Note 5 for a detailed
analysis of the 1997 fourth quarter charge, which includes a roll-forward of the
asset valuation allowances and liabilities.

     Our ongoing  operating  profit  includes  benefits  from the  suspension of
depreciation  and   amortization  of  approximately   $12  million  ($7  million
after-tax)   and  $33  million  ($21  million   after-tax)  in  1999  and  1998,
respectively,  for stores held for disposal.  The relatively short-term benefits
from  depreciation  and  amortization  suspension  related  to stores  that were
operating  at the end of the  respective  periods  ceased  when the stores  were
refranchised, closed or a subsequent decision was made to retain the stores.

     Unusual Items
     -------------

     We had unusual  items of $51 million ($29 million  after-tax),  $15 million
($3 million  after-tax) and $184 million ($165 million  after-tax) in 1999, 1998
and 1997,  respectively.  See Note 5 for a detailed  discussion  of our  unusual
items.

     Store Portfolio Perspectives
     ----------------------------

     For the last several years, we have been  strategically  reducing our share
of total  system  units by  selling  Company  restaurants  to  existing  and new
franchisees  where  their  expertise  can be  leveraged  to improve  our overall
operating  performance,  while  retaining  Company  ownership  of key  U.S.  and
International markets. This  portfolio-balancing  activity has reduced, and will
continue to reduce,  our reported  revenues and restaurant  profits and increase
the importance of system sales as a key performance  measure. We expect that the
loss of  restaurant  level  profits  from the  disposal of these  stores will be
largely mitigated by increased  franchise fees from stores  refranchised,  lower
field general and administrative  expenses and reduced interest costs due to the
reduction  of debt  from the  after-tax  cash  proceeds  from our  refranchising
activities.

     We currently expect to refranchise  approximately 500 to 600 restaurants in
2000  compared  to over  1,400  in  1999.  However,  if  market  conditions  are
favorable,  we may sell more restaurants than the current forecast.  As a result
of  this  decline,  we  estimate  that  our  2000  refranchising  gains  will be
significantly  less than our 1999 gains.  In  addition,  we expect the impact of
refranchising  gains to be even less  significant  over time as we approach  our
target of approximately 20 percent Company ownership of the total system.



     The following table  summarizes our  refranchising  activities for the last
five years:

(a)  Includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth  quarter  charge of $4
     million.
(b)  Includes  unfavorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of $2
     million.
(c)  Includes a 1997 fourth quarter charge of $136 million.

     In addition to our refranchising  program, we have been closing restaurants
over  the  past  several  years.  Restaurants  closed  include  poor  performing
restaurants,  restaurants that are relocated to a new site within the same trade
area or U.S.  Pizza  Hut  delivery  units  consolidated  with a new or  existing
dine-in traditional store which has been remodeled to provide dine-in, carry-out
and delivery services within the same trade area.

     The following table summarizes  store closure  activities for the last five
years:

(a)  Includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth  quarter  charge of $9
     million.
(b)  Includes  favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth  quarter charge of $56
     million.
(c)  Includes a 1997 fourth quarter charge of $213 million.

     Our overall Company  ownership  percentage of total system units was 23% at
December 25, 1999, a decline of 5 percentage  points from  year-end  1998 and 11
percentage points from year-end 1997.

     The  portfolio   effect  on  ongoing   operating  profit  included  in  our
discussions of results of operations represents the estimated impact on revenue,
restaurant  margin,  general and  administrative  expenses and operating  profit
related to our refranchising and store closure initiatives described above.

Results of Operations

     Our  Spin-off in 1997,  the impacts of our  facility  actions over the last
three years,  our 1997 fourth  quarter charge and the impacts of the disposal of
our  Non-core   Businesses   represent   significant   items  which   complicate
year-over-year comparisons.

     Prior to October 7, 1997, our historical financial statements were impacted
by our lack of history as an  independent,  publicly owned company.  The amounts
for certain items,  specifically general and administrative  expenses,  interest
expense  and income  taxes,  included  in our  historical  reported  results for
periods prior to the Spin-off, include allocations or computations which are not
indicative of the amounts we would have incurred if we had been an  independent,
publicly owned company during all periods presented. See Note 2.

     Comparative  information is also impacted by the operations of and disposal
charges  related to our Non-core  Businesses  in 1997.  These  disposal  charges
included an estimated  provision for all expected future liabilities  associated
with the disposal of our Non-core  Businesses.  We were required to retain these
liabilities as part of the Spin-off.  Our best estimates of all such liabilities
have been included in the accompanying  Consolidated  Financial Statements.  See
Note 21. Actual  amounts  incurred may ultimately  differ from these  estimates.
However,  we believe the amounts,  if any, in excess of our previously  recorded
liabilities  are not likely to have a material  adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition or cash flow.



     Following  is a summary of the results of the  operations  of our  Non-core
Businesses through their respective disposal dates:

                                                                      --------
     Revenues                                                         $  268
     % of total revenues                                                  3%
     Non-core Businesses operating profit, before disposal charges    $   13
     Unusual disposal charges                                             54
     Net loss                                                            (26)

Worldwide Results of Operations


(1)  Excluding the special 1997 KFC renewal fees, 1998 increased 13% over 1997.

(2)  See Note 5 for complete  discussion  of our 1999 favorable  accounting
     changes.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Worldwide Restaurant Unit Activity


(a)  Includes  37  Company  units  approved  for  closure  but not yet closed at
     December 25, 1999.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Worldwide System Sales and Revenues

     System Sales increased $1.1 billion or 6% in 1999.  Excluding the favorable
impact of foreign currency translation, system sales increased $1 billion or 5%.
The improvement was driven by new unit development and positive same store sales
growth  in our  three  U.S.  concepts  and our  international  business,  Tricon
Restaurants  International  ("TRI" or  "International").  U.S.  development  was
primarily at Taco Bell while  International  development  was primarily in Asia.
The increase was partially  offset by store closures at our three U.S.  concepts
and in International.

     In 1998,  system sales increased $155 million or 1%. Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased by $871 million
or 4%.  The  increase  reflected  the  development  of new units,  primarily  by
franchisees  and  licensees,   and  positive  same  store  sales  growth.   U.S.
development  was  primarily  at Taco Bell while  international  development  was
primarily  in Asia.  This growth in system sales was  partially  offset by store
closures.

     Revenues  decreased $657 million or 8% in 1999. As expected,  Company sales
decreased  $753 million or 10% in 1999.  The decline in Company sales was due to
the portfolio effect.  Excluding the portfolio  effect,  Company sales increased
$513  million or 8%. The  increase was  primarily  due to new unit  development,
favorable  effective net pricing and volume  increases at Pizza Hut, led by "The
Big New  Yorker,"  and at TRI.  Effective  net  pricing  includes  increases  or
decreases  in price and the  effect of changes in  product  mix.  Franchise  and
license fees grew $96 million or 15% in 1999. The growth was primarily driven by
units  acquired from us and new unit  development  primarily in Asia and at Taco
Bell in the  U.S.,  partially  offset  by  store  closures  by  franchisees  and
licensees.

     In 1998,  revenues decreased $1.2 billion or 12%. Revenues in 1997 included
$268 million related to the Non-core  Businesses.  Excluding the negative impact
of foreign  currency  translation  and revenues  from the  Non-core  Businesses,
revenues  decreased $749 million or 8%. Company sales  decreased $1.3 billion or
14%. The decline in Company sales was due to the portfolio effect. Excluding the
portfolio  effect,  the negative impact of foreign currency  translation and the
Non-core Businesses, Company sales increased $511 million or 7%. The increase in
Company sales was  primarily  driven by new unit  development  and effective net
pricing,  partially  offset  by  store  closures.  Franchise  and  license  fees
increased $49 million or 8%.  Excluding the negative impact of foreign  currency
translation and the special 1997 KFC renewal fees of $24 million,



franchise  and  license  fees  increased  $95  million  or 17%.  The  growth was
primarily driven by units acquired from us and new unit development primarily in
Asia  and at Taco  Bell in the  U.S.,  partially  offset  by store  closures  by
franchisees and licensees.

Worldwide Company Restaurant Margin

                                             1999        1998        1997
                                           --------    --------    --------
Company sales                               100.0%      100.0%      100.0%
Food and paper                               31.5        32.1        32.4
Payroll and employee benefits                27.6        28.6        28.7
Occupancy and other operating expenses       25.5        25.8        27.3
                                           --------    --------    --------
Restaurant margin                            15.4%       13.5%       11.6%
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Our restaurant margin as a percentage of sales increased  approximately 190
basis points for 1999. The portfolio effect  contributed  nearly 50 basis points
and  accounting  changes  contributed  approximately  15  basis  points  to  our
improvement.   Excluding  the  portfolio  effect  and  accounting  changes,  our
restaurant  margin grew  approximately  125 basis points.  This  improvement  in
restaurant margin was primarily  attributable to effective net pricing in excess
of cost increases,  primarily labor in the U.S. Restaurant margin also benefited
from  improved  food  and  paper  cost  management  in  both  the  U.S.  and key
International  equity markets.  Volume increases at Pizza Hut in the U.S. and in
key  International  equity markets were fully offset by volume  declines at Taco
Bell and the  unfavorable  impact of the  introduction  of lower margin  chicken
sandwiches at KFC in the U.S.

     In 1998, our restaurant  margin as a percent of sales increased  almost 190
basis points. Portfolio effect contributed approximately 65 basis points and the
suspension of depreciation and amortization  relating to our 1997 fourth quarter
charge contributed  approximately 55 basis points to our improvement.  Excluding
the portfolio  effect and the benefits of the 1997 fourth  quarter  charge,  our
restaurant margin increased  approximately 70 basis points.  The improvement was
largely due to  effective  net pricing in excess of increased  costs,  primarily
labor. Labor increases were driven by higher wage rates,  primarily attributable
to the  September  1997  minimum wage  increase in the U.S.,  an increase in the
management  complement in our U.S.  Taco Bell  restaurants  and lower  favorable
insurance-related  adjustments  in 1998.  The  decrease in  occupancy  and other
operating  expenses  related  primarily  to  higher  spending  in 1997 on  store
refurbishment  and quality  initiatives at Taco Bell and Pizza Hut as well as an
increase  in  higher  favorable  insurance-related  adjustments  in 1998.  These
favorable items were partially offset by increased store refurbishment  expenses
at KFC in 1998.

Worldwide General & Administrative Expenses ("G&A")

     G&A  decreased  $21  million  or 2% in  1999.  Excluding  the  $18  million
favorable impact of 1999 accounting  changes,  G&A decreased $3 million in 1999.
In 1999, the favorable impacts of our portfolio effect,  our fourth quarter 1998
decision  to  streamline  our  international  business  and the absence of costs
associated with relocating certain operations from Wichita,  Kansas in 1998 were
partially offset by higher strategic and other corporate  expenses.  In addition
to the items described  above,  higher spending on biennial  meetings to support
our culture  initiatives  and the absence of favorable cost recovery  agreements
with AmeriServe Food  Distribution,  Inc.  ("AmeriServe")  and PepsiCo that were
terminated  in 1998 resulted in a modest  increase in G&A in 1999.  Our 1999 G&A
included  Year 2000  spending  of  approximately  $30 million as compared to $31
million in 1998.

     In  1998,   G&A   decreased  $15  million  or  2%.  G&A  in  1997  included
approximately $24 million related to Non-core  Businesses.  Excluding the impact
of the  Non-core  Businesses,  G&A  increased  $9 million  or 1%.  The  increase
reflected  higher  investment  spending  offset by the favorable  impacts of our
portfolio  effect,



decreased  restaurant  support center and field  operating  overhead and foreign
currency  translation.  Our  investment  spending  consisted  primarily of costs
related to Year 2000 compliance and  remediation  efforts of $31 million in 1998
versus $4  million  in 1997,  along with the costs to  relocate  our  processing
center from Wichita to other existing restaurant support centers of $14 million.
In addition, we experienced increased administrative expenses as an independent,
publicly owned company and incurred  additional  expenses  related to continuing
efforts to improve and standardize administrative and accounting systems.

Worldwide Other (Income) Expense


     Other income declined $8 million in 1999. Net foreign  exchange losses were
$3 million in 1999 compared to net foreign exchange gains of $6 million in 1998.
This  decline was due to foreign  losses in 1999 versus gains in 1998 related to
U.S. dollar denominated short-term investments in Canada.

     In 1998,  equity income from investments in our  unconsolidated  affiliates
increased $10 million.  This  increase was due  primarily to lower  amortization
relating to the impact of the $79 million  joint venture  investment  impairment
included in our 1997 fourth quarter  charge and, to a lesser extent,  the impact
of new unit  development  primarily by our affiliate in the United Kingdom.  Net
foreign  exchange gains were $6 million in 1998 compared to net foreign exchange
losses  of  $16  million  in  1997.  This   improvement  was  due  primarily  to
non-recurring  1997 foreign exchange  losses,  predominantly in Thailand and the
Netherlands,  and to foreign exchange gains in 1998 primarily due to U.S. dollar
denominated short-term investments in Canada.

Worldwide Facility Actions Net (Gain) Loss


     Refranchising  net gains resulted from the  refranchising of 1,435 units in
1999,  1,373 units in 1998 and 1,407 units in 1997. These gains included initial
franchise  fees of $45  million,  $44 million and $41 million in 1999,  1998 and
1997,  respectively.   See  pages  21  -  22  for  more  details  regarding  our
refranchising activities.

     Impairment charges for stores that will continue to be used in the business
were $16  million  in 1999  compared  to $25  million in 1998  reflecting  fewer
underperforming  stores.  In 1998, upon adoption of the SEC's



interpretation of SFAS 121, we also began to perform impairment evaluations when
we expect to  actually  close a store  beyond the  quarter in which our  closure
decision is made. This change resulted in additional  impairment  charges of $12
million in 1999 and $6 million in 1998. Under our prior accounting policy, these
impairment  charges would have been included in store closure costs.  We believe
the overall  decrease in impairment in 1998 was  significantly  impacted by 1997
decisions  included in our fourth  quarter  charge to dispose of certain  stores
which  may  have  otherwise  been  impaired  in our  evaluations,  and  improved
performance in 1998, primarily at Pizza Hut in the U.S.

     Our 1999  refranchising  gains,  store closure costs and impairment charges
are not necessarily indicative of future results.

Worldwide Operating Profit

(a)  Excludes 1999 favorable accounting changes of approximately $15 million.
(b)  Excludes 1999 favorable accounting changes of approximately $14 million.

     The increases in U.S. and  International  ongoing operating profit for 1999
and 1998 are  discussed  fully  on  pages  32 and 34,  respectively.  Accounting
changes,  facility  actions net gain (loss) and unusual  items are  discussed in
Note 5.

     Ongoing  unallocated and corporate expenses increased $25 million or 14% in
1999. The increase was driven by higher strategic and other corporate  spending,
system  standardization  investment  and the absence of favorable  cost recovery
agreements  from  AmeriServe  and PepsiCo that were  terminated  in 1998.  These
increases  were  partially  offset  by the  absence  of  costs  associated  with
relocating certain of our operations from Wichita, Kansas in 1998.

     In 1998,  ongoing  unallocated and corporate expenses increased $82 million
or 93%. The increase was primarily due to spending on Year 2000  compliance  and
remediation  efforts,  costs to relocate our  processing  center from Wichita to
other  facilities  and  expenses  incurred  as an  independent,  publicly  owned
company,  as well as, additional  expenses related to the efforts to improve and
standardize operating, administrative and accounting systems.

Worldwide Interest Expense, Net

                                 1999        1998        1997
                               --------    --------    --------

     External debt             $  218      $  291      $  102
     PepsiCo allocation             -           -         188
                               --------    --------    --------
     Interest expense             218         291         290
     Interest income              (16)        (19)        (14)
                               --------    --------    --------
     Interest expense, net     $  202      $  272      $  276
                               ========    ========    ========



     Our net interest expense  decreased  approximately $70 million in 1999. The
decline was primarily due to the reduction of debt through use of after-tax cash
proceeds from our refranchising activities and cash from operations.

     In 1998, our net interest expense decreased  approximately $4 million.  The
decline was due to an increase in interest income,  partially offset by a slight
increase  in interest  expense.  The  increase in interest  income was driven by
higher  average  international  investment  balances.  The  slight  increase  in
interest expense was primarily due to higher average outstanding debt balances.

     Prior to the Spin-off in the fourth quarter of 1997,  our  operations  were
financed through operating cash flows,  proceeds from  refranchising  activities
and  investment by and advances from PepsiCo.  At the Spin-off date, we borrowed
$4.55 billion under a bank credit agreement to replace the financing  previously
provided by PepsiCo and, additionally,  to fund a dividend to PepsiCo. See Notes
2 and 11. For periods  prior to the  Spin-off,  our  interest  expense  included
PepsiCo's  allocation  of  its  interest  expense  (PepsiCo's  weighted  average
interest rate applied to the average balance of investments by and advances from
PepsiCo) and interest on our external debt, including capital leases. We believe
such allocated  interest  expense is not indicative of the interest expense that
we would have incurred as an independent,  publicly owned company. Subsequent to
the Spin-off  date,  our interest  costs consist  primarily of interest  expense
related to our bank credit  agreement,  unsecured notes and other external debt.
Most of the other external debt existed at the Spin-off date.

Worldwide Income Taxes

                           1999          1998         1997
                         ---------    ---------    ---------
Reported
  Income taxes           $    411     $    311     $     76
  Effective tax rate        39.5%        41.1%           NM

 Ongoing(a)
  Income taxes           $    267     $    210     $    179
  Effective tax rate        39.3%        42.3%        45.2%

(a)  Excludes the effects of 1999 accounting changes,  facility actions net gain
     (loss) and unusual items. See Note 5 for a discussion of these exclusions.

     For  periods  prior  to the  Spin-off  in  1997,  income  tax  expense  was
calculated,  to the extent possible,  as if we filed income tax returns separate
from PepsiCo.

     The following reconciles the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to our ongoing
effective tax rate:

                                                   1999       1998       1997
                                                  -------    -------    -------
U.S. federal statutory tax rate                    35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
State income tax, net of federal tax benefit        2.3        2.8        3.9
Foreign and U.S. tax effects attributable to
  foreign operations                                1.5        6.3        4.9
Adjustments relating to prior years                 0.2       (3.3)       0.8
Other, net                                          0.3        1.5        0.6
                                                  -------    -------    -------
Ongoing effective tax rate                         39.3%      42.3%      45.2%
                                                  =======    =======    =======

     The 1999 ongoing  effective  tax rate  decreased  3.0 points to 39.3%.  The
decrease  in the  ongoing  effective  tax rate was  primarily  due to a one-time
favorable  international  benefit in Mexico. The recent pattern of profitability
in Mexico and expectations of future  profitability have allowed us to reverse a
previous valuation  allowance against deferred tax assets. This will allow us to
reduce future cash tax payments in Mexico.



     The 1998 ongoing  effective  tax rate  decreased  2.9 points to 42.3%.  The
decrease in the 1998 ongoing  effective  tax rate was primarily due to favorable
adjustments related to prior years.

     The  effective  tax rate  attributable  to foreign  operations  varied from
year-to-year  but in each year was higher than the U.S.  federal  statutory  tax
rate.  This was  primarily  due to  foreign  tax rate  differentials,  including
foreign  withholding  tax paid without benefit of the related foreign tax credit
for U.S.  income tax purposes and losses of foreign  operations for which no tax
benefit could be currently recognized.

Diluted Earnings Per Share

     The  components  of diluted  earnings  per  common  share  ("EPS")  were as
follows:

(a)  Based  on 160  million  shares  in 1999  and  156  million  shares  in 1998
     applicable to diluted earnings. See Note 4.
(b)  Includes  favorable  adjustments to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of $0.06
     and $0.21 per diluted share in 1999 and 1998, respectively.
(c)  Includes  favorable  adjustments to our 1997 fourth quarter charge of $0.07
     and $0.04 per diluted share in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

U.S. Results of Operations


(1)  Excluding the special 1997 KFC renewal fees, 1998 increased 21% over 1997.
(2)  Excludes  1999  accounting  changes,  facility  actions net gain (loss) and
     unusual items.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



U.S. Restaurant Unit Activity


(a)  A total of 114 units have been  reclassified from the U.S. to International
     to reflect the transfer of management responsibility.
(b)  Includes  36 Company  units  approved  for  closure,  but not yet closed at
     December 25, 1999.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

U.S. System Sales and Revenues

     System sales  increased  $503 million or 4% in 1999.  The  improvement  was
driven by new unit  development,  led by Taco Bell  franchisees  and same  store
sales growth at our three U.S.  concepts.  These increases were partially offset
by store closures, primarily at Pizza Hut and Taco Bell.

     In 1998,  system  sales  increased  $511  million or 4%. The  increase  was
attributable to new unit development,  primarily by franchisees and licensees of
Taco Bell and, to a lesser extent,  KFC, and positive same store sales growth at
all three of our concepts.  These increases were partially  offset by the impact
of store closures.

     Revenues  decreased  $691  million  or 11% due to the  expected  decline in
Company  sales of $760 million or 13% in 1999.  The decline in Company sales was
due to the  portfolio  effect.  Excluding the  portfolio  effect,  Company sales
increased  approximately  $305 million or 6%. This increase was primarily due to
new unit development,  favorable  effective net pricing and volume increases led
by Pizza Hut's first  quarter new product  introduction,  "The Big New  Yorker."
Franchise and license fees  increased  $69 million or 16% in 1999.  The increase
was driven by units acquired from us, new unit  development  and franchisee same
store sales  growth,  primarily at Pizza Hut.  These  increases  were  partially
offset by store closures.

     We measure  same store sales only for our U.S.  Company  restaurants.  Same
store sales at Pizza Hut  increased 9% in 1999.  The  improvement  was primarily
driven by an increase in transactions  of over 5%,  resulting from the launch of
"The Big New Yorker."  The growth at Pizza Hut was also aided by  effective  net
pricing of over 3%.  Same store  sales at KFC grew 2%. The  increase  was almost
equally  driven by effective  net pricing and  transaction  growth.  Transaction
growth at KFC was primarily due to the fourth  quarter launch of its new chicken
sandwiches.  This favorable  impact was partially offset by lower check averages
from these transactions and declines in other products. Same store sales at Taco
Bell were flat as an increase in effective net pricing of  approximately  4% was
fully  offset  by  transaction  declines.  In  the  fourth  quarter,  Taco  Bell
introduced a new hot, fried product, the Chalupa,  reigniting transaction growth
during that period.

     In 1998, revenues decreased $931 million or 13% due to the expected decline
in Company  sales of $981 million or 14%.  Excluding  the effect of the Non-core
Businesses,  our Company  sales  decreased  $715  million or 11%. The decline in
Company  sales was  driven by the  portfolio  effect.  Excluding  the  impact of
Non-core



Businesses and portfolio  effect,  Company sales  increased  approximately  $331
million or 6%. This  increase  was  primarily  due to positive  same store sales
growth at all three of our  operating  companies.  Franchise  and  license  fees
increased  $50  million or 13% in 1998.  In 1997,  we  generated  $24 million of
special KFC renewal fees.  Substantially all of KFC's franchisees  renewed their
franchise  agreements,  typically  for 20 years,  during  1997.  As part of this
special renewal program at KFC, certain participating franchisees also committed
to attain  over the next  several  years  certain  facility  standards  based on
physical assessment of that franchisee's restaurants.  We believe these upgrades
of the franchised  facilities will ultimately result in higher system sales and,
therefore,  higher franchise fees.  Excluding the special 1997 KFC renewal fees,
1998  franchise and license fees  increased $74 million or 21%. The increase was
primarily driven by units acquired from us and new unit  development,  partially
offset by the impact of store closures by franchisees and licensees.

     In 1998,  same store sales at Pizza Hut increased 6%. The  improvement  was
primarily  driven by effective net pricing of 4% aided by transaction  increases
of 2%.  Same store  sales at KFC grew 3%.  This  growth  was due to  transaction
increases of 2% aided by  effective  net pricing of 1%. Same store sales at Taco
Bell  increased  3%.  The  improvement  at Taco Bell was  driven by  transaction
increases of 1% aided by effective net pricing of 2%.

U.S. Company Restaurant Margin
                                             1999        1998        1997
                                           --------    --------    --------

Company sales                               100.0%      100.0%      100.0%
Food and paper                               30.0        31.0        31.1
Payroll and employee benefits                29.8        30.4        30.5
Occupancy and other operating expenses       24.5        25.0        26.7
                                           --------    --------    --------
Restaurant margin                            15.7%       13.6%       11.7%
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Our restaurant margin as a percentage of sales increased  approximately 210
basis  points for 1999.  Portfolio  effect  contributed  approximately  45 basis
points  and  accounting  changes  contributed  nearly  25  basis  points  to our
improvement.   Excluding  the  portfolio  effect  and  accounting  changes,  our
restaurant  margin grew  approximately  140 basis  points.  The  improvement  in
restaurant margin was primarily attributable to favorable effective net pricing.
Labor cost increases,  primarily driven by higher wage rates,  were fully offset
by lower food and paper costs as improved  product cost  management  resulted in
lower overall beverage and distribution costs. The improvement in our restaurant
margin also included  approximately  15 basis points from  retroactive  beverage
rebates  related  to 1998  recognized  in 1999.  In  addition,  an  increase  in
favorable  insurance-related  adjustments over 1998 contributed approximately 10
basis points to our improvement.  These adjustments arose from improved casualty
loss trends across all three of our U.S.  operating  companies.  See Note 21 for
additional information regarding our insurance-related adjustments. All of these
improvements  were  partially  offset  by volume  declines  at Taco Bell and the
unfavorable  impact of the  introduction  of lower margin chicken  sandwiches at
KFC.

     In 1998, our restaurant  margin as a percentage of sales increased over 190
basis points. The portfolio effect contributed approximately 75 basis points and
the  suspension of  depreciation  and  amortization  relating to our 1997 fourth
quarter  charge  contributed   approximately  40  basis  points.  Excluding  the
portfolio  effect  and the  benefit  of the  1997  fourth  quarter  charge,  our
restaurant  margin increased  approximately  80 basis points.  We benefited from
favorable  effective  net  pricing  in  excess  of  costs,  primarily  labor and
commodity costs. Our labor increases were driven by higher wage rates, primarily
the  September  1997  minimum  wage  increase,  an  increase  in the  management
complement at our Taco Bell  restaurants and lower  favorable  insurance-related
adjustments in 1998.  Commodity cost  increases,  primarily  cheese and produce,
were partially  offset by a decrease in other commodity costs. Our occupancy and
other   operating   expenses  were  favorably   impacted  by  higher   favorable
insurance-related  adjustments  in 1998 and the  decreased  store  condition and
quality  initiative



spending at Pizza Hut and Taco Bell. These favorable items were partially offset
by increased store refurbishment expenses at KFC in 1998.

U.S. Ongoing Operating Profit

     Ongoing operating profit increased $73 million or 10% in 1999. The increase
was due to our base restaurant margin improvement of 140 basis points and higher
franchise  fees  primarily from new unit  development.  The favorable  impact of
these items was  partially  offset by the net negative  impact of the  portfolio
effect.  We have  estimated  the 1999 net negative  impact due to the  portfolio
effect was approximately $40 million or approximately 5% of our operating profit
in 1998.  Higher G&A,  net of field G&A savings from our  portfolio  activities,
also unfavorably  impacted ongoing  operating  profit.  This increase in G&A was
largely due to the  biennial  conferences  at Pizza Hut and Taco Bell to support
our corporate culture initiatives.

     In 1998,  ongoing operating profit increased  approximately $137 million or
23%.  Excluding  the effect of our Non-core  Businesses,  our ongoing  operating
profit increased  approximately $150 million or 26%. The increase was due to our
base restaurant margin  improvement of 80 basis points and reduced G&A expenses.
Higher  franchise and license fees were  partially  offset by the absence of the
special  1997 KFC  renewal  fees.  The  impact due to the  portfolio  effect was
insignificant. Ongoing operating profit included the benefits of our 1997 fourth
quarter charge of approximately $35 million, of which $19 million related to the
suspension of depreciation and amortization for stores included in the charge.

International Results of Operations

(1)  Excludes  1999  accounting  changes,  facility  actions net gain (loss) and
     unusual items.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



International Restaurant Unit Activity

(a)  A total of 114 units have been  reclassified from the U.S. to International
     to reflect the transfer of management responsibility.
(b)  Includes  1  Company  unit  approved  for  closure,  but not yet  closed at
     December 25, 1999.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

International System Sales and Revenues

     System Sales  increased  $639 million or 10% in 1999 largely  driven by our
strong performance in Asia. Excluding the favorable impact from foreign currency
translation,  system sales  increased  $498 million or 8%. This was led by Asia,
our  largest  region.  System  sales  in Asia  increased  $426  million  or 19%.
Excluding the favorable impact of foreign currency translation,  system sales in
Asia  increased  $229 million or 10%. In 1999, the economy in Asia began to show
signs of a steady recovery after the overall  economic  turmoil and weakening of
local  currencies  against the U.S. dollar that began in late 1997. The increase
in system sales in Asia was driven by new unit  development and same store sales
growth.  Outside of Asia, the  improvement  was driven by new unit  development,
both by franchisees  and us, and same store sales growth.  New unit  development
was  primarily in Mexico and the U.K. The increase in system sales was partially
offset by store closures  primarily by franchisees in Canada,  Latin America and
Japan.

     In 1998,  system sales decreased $356 million or 5%. Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales increased $360 million or
5%.  The  increase  was  driven  by new  unit  development,  primarily  in Asia,
partially offset by store closures in other  countries/markets.  System sales in
Asia  decreased  $254  million  or 10% as a  result  of  the  economic  turmoil.
Excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign currency  translation,  system sales
in Asia increased 8%.

     Revenues  increased  $34  million or 2% in 1999.  Excluding  the  favorable
impact of foreign currency  translation,  revenues  increased $29 million or 1%.
Company sales  increased less than 1% in 1999. New unit  development,  favorable
effective net pricing and volume  increases were largely offset by the portfolio
effect.  Excluding the portfolio effect, Company sales increased $208 million or
13% in 1999 largely driven by our strong  performance in Asia.  Revenues in Asia
increased  $139  million  or 28%.  Excluding  the  favorable  impact of  foreign
currency  translation,  revenues in Asia increased $115 million or 23% driven by
new unit development and same store sales growth.

     Franchise and license fees rose $27 million or 13% in 1999. The increase in
franchise and license fees was driven by new unit development,  same store sales
growth and units acquired from us. New unit  development  was primarily in Asia.
These increases were partially offset by store closures.



     In 1998,  revenues  decreased  $280 million or 12%.  Excluding the negative
impact of foreign currency  translation,  revenues  decreased $86 million or 4%.
Company  sales  decreased  $279 million or 13% driven by the  portfolio  effect.
Excluding the negative impact of foreign currency  translation and the portfolio
effect,  Company sales increased $180 million or 10%. The increase was driven by
new unit  development,  primarily in Asia, and effective net pricing.  Franchise
and license fees  decreased $1 million or less than 1%.  Excluding  the negative
impact of foreign currency translation, franchise and license fees increased $21
million or 11%. The increase  was driven by new unit  development,  primarily in
Asia,  and  units  acquired  from us,  partially  offset  by store  closures  by
franchisees and licensees.

International Company Restaurant Margin

                                             1999        1998        1997
                                           --------    --------    --------
Company sales                               100.0%      100.0%      100.0%
Food and paper                               36.0        35.8        36.5
Payroll and employee benefits                21.0        22.6        22.7
Occupancy and other operating expenses       28.6        28.6        29.4
                                           --------    --------    --------
Restaurant margin                            14.4%       13.0%       11.4%
                                           ========    ========    ========

     Our restaurant margin as a percentage of sales increased  approximately 140
basis  points  in 1999.  Excluding  the  favorable  impact of  foreign  currency
translation,  restaurant  margins  increased  approximately  130  basis  points.
Portfolio  effect  contributed  approximately  50 basis  points.  Excluding  the
portfolio effect,  our restaurant margin grew approximately 80 basis points. The
improvement in restaurant margin was driven by volume increases in China,  Korea
and Australia and favorable  effective net pricing in excess of cost  increases,
primarily in the U.K.,  Puerto Rico and Korea.  Our growth in 1999 was partially
offset by volume  decreases  in Taiwan and  Poland.  In  addition to the factors
described above,  margins benefited from improved cost management,  primarily in
China.

     In 1998, our restaurant  margin increased over 160 basis points.  Excluding
the negative impact of foreign currency translation, restaurant margin increased
approximately  195 basis  points.  The  increase  was  driven  primarily  by the
suspension of depreciation and amortization  relating to restaurants included in
our 1997  fourth  quarter  charge,  which  contributed  110  basis  points.  The
portfolio  effect  also  contributed   approximately  30  basis  points  to  the
improvement.  The remaining margin  improvement of approximately 55 basis points
resulted  from  favorable  effective  net  pricing in excess of costs in Mexico,
Australia and Spain.  Restaurant  margin  improvement  was  partially  offset by
volume  declines in Asia, led by Korea.  The economic  turmoil  throughout  Asia
resulted in an overall volume  decline,  even though we had volume  increases in
Mexico, Canada and Spain.

International Ongoing Operating Profit

     Ongoing  operating  profit grew $74 million or 39% in 1999.  Excluding  the
favorable  impact of foreign  currency  translation,  ongoing  operating  profit
increased $69 million or 36%. The increase in operating profit was driven by our
base margin  improvement of approximately 80 basis points,  higher franchise and
license fees and a decline in G&A. Our ongoing  operating  profit benefited from
the economic recovery in Asia. Operating profit in Asia increased $55 million or
84%.  Excluding  the  favorable  impact of foreign  currency  translation,  Asia
operating profit increased $46 million or 72%.  Additionally,  ongoing operating
profit  included  benefits of  approximately  $15  million  from our 1998 fourth
quarter decision to streamline our international  infrastructure in Asia, Europe
and Latin America and other actions.

     In 1998,  ongoing operating profit increased $19 million or 11%.  Excluding
the negative impact of foreign currency  translation,  ongoing  operating profit
increased $43 million or 25% in 1998. The increase was driven



by our base  margin  improvement  of 55 basis  points and a decline in G&A.  The
favorable  impact of these items was partially offset by the net negative impact
of the portfolio effect, which was approximately $10 million or approximately 6%
of operating  profit in 1997. Lower franchise and license fees, net of fees from
units acquired from us, also  unfavorably  impacted  ongoing  operating  profit.
Ongoing  operating  profit in 1998 included  benefits related to our 1997 fourth
quarter charge of approximately $29 million, of which $14 million related to the
suspension  of  depreciation  and  amortization  for the stores  included in the
charge.  These  benefits were fully offset by the 30% decline in Asia  operating
profit and Year 2000 spending.

Consolidated Cash Flows

     Net cash provided by operating  activities  decreased  $109 million to $565
million in 1999.  Net income  before  facility  actions  and all other  non-cash
charges increased $12 million from $780 million to $792 million, despite the net
decline of 1,400  Company  restaurants.  This decline was  primarily  due to our
portfolio  activities during the year.  Portfolio activities also contributed to
the  decline of $128  million  in our  operating  working  capital  deficit  due
primarily to a reduction in accounts payable and other current liabilities.  Our
operating working capital deficit,  which excludes cash, short-term  investments
and  short-term  borrowings,  is  typical  of  restaurant  operations  where the
majority of sales are for cash while  payment to  suppliers  for food and supply
inventories  carry longer payment terms,  generally from 10-30 days. The decline
in  accounts  payable  was a  result  of  the  reduction  in the  number  of our
restaurants and timing in the payment of liabilities.  Other current liabilities
declined  primarily due to lower vacation accruals due to the change in vacation
policy  (described  in Note  5),  lower  casualty  loss  reserves  based  on our
independent  actuary's  valuation,  lower advertising accruals and lower accrued
interest due to the reduction in debt.  As expected,  the  refranchising  of our
restaurants  and the related  increase in franchised  units have caused accounts
receivable for franchise fees to increase.

     In 1998, net cash provided by operating  activities  decreased $136 million
to $674  million.  Cash  used for  working  capital  was $106  million  for 1998
compared to cash  provided by working  capital of $27 million in 1997.  The 1998
use was primarily due to an increase in current  deferred tax assets and reduced
income  taxes  payable.  Excluding  net changes in working  capital,  net income
before facility actions and all other non-cash charges was essentially unchanged
despite  the net  decline of over 1,700  Company  restaurants.  The  decline was
driven by our portfolio activities.

     Cash  provided  by  investing  activities  increased  $220  million to $522
million  in  1999.  The  majority  of  the  increase  is  due  to  higher  gross
refranchising  proceeds and proceeds from the sale of  international  short-term
investments in connection with a planned tax-efficient repatriation to the U.S.

     We look at  refranchising  proceeds  on an  "after-tax"  basis.  We  define
after-tax  proceeds  as gross  refranchising  proceeds  less the  settlement  of
working  capital  liabilities  related  to  the  units  refranchised,  primarily
accounts payable and property taxes, and payment of taxes on the gains. This use
of proceeds  reduces our normal working  capital deficit as more fully discussed
above.  The  after-tax  proceeds are  available  to pay down debt or  repurchase
shares.  The estimated  after-tax proceeds from refranchising of $683 million in
1999 increased approximately 13% compared to prior year. This increase is due to
the increased number of units  refranchised as well as the mix of units sold and
the level of taxable gains from each refranchising.

     In 1998, net cash provided by investing  activities  decreased $164 million
to $302  million  compared  to $466  million  in  1997.  The 1998  decrease  was
primarily due to the prior year sale of the Non-core Businesses partly offset by
increased  proceeds  from  refranchising  and the sales of  property,  plant and
equipment. Capital spending decreased by $81 million or 15%.



     Net cash used for financing  activities was  essentially  unchanged at $1.1
billion in 1999.  Payments on our unsecured Term Loan Facility and our unsecured
Revolving Credit Facility totaled $1.0 billion.

     In September  1999, the Board of Directors  authorized the repurchase of up
to $350 million of the Company's  outstanding Common Stock. Through December 25,
1999, 3.3 million shares were  repurchased  under this program at a cost of $134
million.  We have repurchased  approximately  3.4 million  additional shares for
approximately $125 million through February 25, 2000.

     In 1998, net cash used for financing  activities of $1.1 billion  decreased
slightly  compared to 1997. The 1998 use represents net debt repayments.  During
1998, we issued  unsecured  notes  resulting in proceeds of $604 million.  These
proceeds were used to reduce existing  borrowings  under our unsecured Term Loan
Facility and unsecured Revolving Credit Facility.

     Financing Activities

     Our primary bank credit  agreement,  as amended in March 1999, is currently
comprised of a senior,  unsecured  Term Loan  Facility  and a $3 billion  senior
unsecured  Revolving  Credit Facility  (collectively  referred to as the "Credit
Facilities")  which  mature on October 2, 2002.  At December  25,  1999,  we had
approximately  $774 million  outstanding  under the Term Loan  Facility and $955
million  outstanding  under the Revolving Credit Facility.  Amounts  outstanding
under our Term Loan  Facility  and  Revolving  Credit  Facility  are expected to
fluctuate  from  time to time,  but Term  Loan  Facility  reductions  cannot  be
reborrowed.  At December  25,  1999,  we had unused  Revolving  Credit  Facility
borrowings  available  aggregating $1.9 billion,  net of outstanding  letters of
credit of $152 million.  We believe that we will be able to replace or refinance
our Credit  Facilities  with another  form of  borrowing  including a new credit
facility  or publicly  issued  debt,  depending  on market  conditions  or terms
available  at that  time.  We  currently  believe  we will be able to replace or
refinance the Credit Facilities prior to the maturity date.

     This substantial  indebtedness  subjects us to significant interest expense
and  principal  repayment  obligations,  which are limited in the near term,  to
prepayment  events as defined in the credit  agreement.  Interest  on the Credit
Facilities is based  principally on the London Interbank  Offered Rate ("LIBOR")
plus a variable margin as defined in the credit agreement. Therefore, our future
borrowing  costs may  fluctuate  depending  upon the  volatility  in  LIBOR.  We
currently  mitigate  a portion  of our  interest  rate risk  through  the use of
financial  instruments.  See Notes 11 and 13 and our market risk  discussion for
further discussions of our interest rate risk.

     We  anticipate  that  our  2000  combined  cash  flow  from  operating  and
refranchising activities will be lower than 1999 levels primarily because of our
expectations of reduced refranchising  activity.  However, we believe it will be
sufficient to support our expected  capital  spending and still allow us to make
required debt repayments and buy back shares under our current stock  repurchase
program.

     Consolidated Financial Condition

     Assets decreased $570 million or 13% to $4.0 billion at year-end 1999. This
decrease is primarily  attributable  to the  portfolio  effect and a decrease in
cash and short-term investments. The decrease in cash and short-term investments
was primarily driven by initiatives  which allowed us to repatriate $210 million
of cash to the U.S.  from foreign  countries at minimal tax cost. We continue to
look for opportunities to tax efficiently repatriate cash generated from foreign
operations.

     Liabilities  decreased $1.2 billion or 21% to $4.5 billion primarily due to
net debt repayments.



     Our  operating  working  capital  deficit  declined  13% to $832 million at
year-end  1999 from $960  million at year-end  1998,  primarily  reflecting  the
portfolio effect.

     Other  Significant Known Events,  Trends or Uncertainties  Expected to
      Impact 2000 Ongoing Operating Income Comparisons with 1999

     Impact of AmeriServe Bankruptcy
     -------------------------------

     As  described  in Note 22,  on  January  31,  2000,  AmeriServe  filed  for
protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  AmeriServe has advised
us that it  intends  to  prepare  and file with the  Bankruptcy  Court a plan of
reorganization in the future.

     TRICON,   the  purchasing   cooperative  for  the  TRICON  system  and  key
representatives  of the TRICON franchise  community are working closely together
to  proactively  address  the  bankruptcy   situation  and  develop  appropriate
contingency plans. It is our intention to take all actions reasonably  necessary
and prudent to ensure continued  supply of restaurant  products and equipment to
the TRICON system, and to minimize any incremental costs or exposures related to
the AmeriServe  bankruptcy.  The significant  actions that we have taken to date
are described below.

     On February 2, 2000, we and another  major  AmeriServe  customer  agreed to
provide a $150 million interim "debtor-in-possession"  revolving credit facility
(the  "Facility")  to AmeriServe.  We initially  committed to provide up to $100
million under this Facility.  However, we have reached an agreement in principle
to assign $30 million of our  commitment  to a third  party,  reducing our total
commitment under the Facility to $70 million.  AmeriServe has advised us that it
is actively  seeking to arrange  alternative  debtor-in-possession  financing to
replace the Facility.

     In addition to our  participation in the Facility,  to help ensure that our
supply chain continues to remain open, we have begun to purchase (and take title
to) supplies directly from suppliers (the "temporary  direct purchase  program")
for use in our  restaurants,  as  well  as for  resale  to our  franchisees  and
licensees who  previously  purchased  supplies from  AmeriServe.  AmeriServe has
agreed,  for the same fee in effect prior to the bankruptcy  filing, to continue
to be  responsible  for  distributing  the supplies to us and our  participating
franchisee and licensee  restaurants as well as providing  ordering,  inventory,
billing and  collection  services  for us. To date,  this  arrangement  has been
effective in ensuring  supplies to our restaurants,  and we have not experienced
any significant supply interruption.

     Further,  we have  commenced  contingency  planning and believe that we can
arrange with an alternative distributor or distributors to meet the needs of the
TRICON restaurant  system if AmeriServe is no longer able to adequately  service
our restaurants or if otherwise permitted by the Bankruptcy Court.

     As in most  bankruptcies  involving a primary supplier or distributor,  the
AmeriServe bankruptcy poses certain risks and uncertainties to us, as well as to
our  franchisees  that  rely on  AmeriServe  to  distribute  products  to  their
restaurants. The more significant of these risks and uncertainties are described
below.  Significant adverse  developments in any of these risks or uncertainties
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations,  cash flow or
financial condition.

     We expect to incur costs in connection  with our temporary  direct purchase
program, including the cost of additional debt incurred to finance the inventory
purchases and to carry the receivables  arising from inventory  sales.  While we
believe that adequate inventory control and collections systems are in place, we
may also incur costs related to the  possibility of inventory  obsolescence  and
uncollectible  receivables from our franchisees.  We expect to mitigate,  if not
fully  offset,  these costs  through  discounts  granted by suppliers for prompt



payments.  We also expect to incur certain one-time unusual costs as a result of
the AmeriServe bankruptcy, primarily consisting of professional fees.

     We intend to continue to work with AmeriServe and our suppliers to meet our
supply needs while  AmeriServe  seeks to  reorganize.  Due to the  uncertainties
surrounding AmeriServe's reorganization,  we cannot predict the ultimate impact,
if any, on our  businesses.  There can be no assurance that the Facility will be
sufficient to meet  AmeriServe's  cash  requirements  or that we will be able to
fully recover the amount advanced under the Facility.  There can be no assurance
that AmeriServe will be successful in arranging replacement debtor-in-possession
financing on satisfactory terms, or that a plan of reorganization for AmeriServe
will  ultimately  be  confirmed,  or if  confirmed,  what the plan will provide.
Additionally, there can be no assurance that AmeriServe will be able to maintain
our supply line  indefinitely  without  additional  financing  or at our current
contractual rates.

     We currently have a multi-year contract with AmeriServe which is subject to
the Bankruptcy Court procedures  during the  reorganization  process.  As stated
above,  we  believe  that we can  arrange  with an  alternative  distributor  or
distributors to meet the needs of the TRICON  restaurant system if AmeriServe is
no longer able to adequately  service our restaurants or if otherwise  permitted
by the Bankruptcy  Court. We could,  however,  experience some short-term delays
due to the time  required to qualify  and  contract  with,  and  transition  the
business to,  other  distributors.  There can be no  assurance  that the cost of
these alternatives would be at the same rates we currently pay AmeriServe.

     We believe that we may have a set-off or recoupment  claim against  amounts
we owe AmeriServe under our distribution contract that would allow us to recover
certain  costs and damages  that we have  incurred (or may incur) as a result of
AmeriServe's  failure to perform its contractual  obligations to our restaurants
both prior to and after the  bankruptcy  filing.  While we intend to assert this
claim, there can be no assurance that we will be successful.

     Without  regard  to  the  final  outcome  of  the   AmeriServe   bankruptcy
proceedings,  it is our intention to take whatever steps are reasonably required
to ensure  continued  supply of restaurant  products and equipment to the TRICON
system. To the extent we incur any ongoing  incremental costs as a result of the
AmeriServe  bankruptcy or actions related  thereto,  we intend to mitigate those
costs  to the  maximum  extent  possible  through  other  reasonable  management
actions.

     Impact of New Ventures
     ----------------------

     Consistent  with our  strategy  to focus our  capital on key  international
markets,  we entered into  agreements in the fourth  quarter of 1999 to form new
ventures during 2000 in Canada and Poland with our largest  franchisees in those
markets. We intend to contribute  approximately 300 restaurants in Canada and 50
restaurants in Poland in exchange for an equity interest in each venture.  These
units  represented  approximately  18% of total  International  Company units at
December  25,  1999.  These  interests  will be  accounted  for under the equity
method.  We have not yet  determined  the timing of the  formation  of these new
ventures.

     Upon  formation  of these  ventures,  we will  recognize  our  share of the
ventures' net income or loss as equity income from investments in unconsolidated
affiliates.   Currently,   the  results   from  these   restaurants   are  being
consolidated.  The impact of these  transactions  on  operating  results will be
similar  to  the  portfolio  effect  of  our  refranchising  activities.   These
transactions  will result in a decline in our Company sales,  restaurant  margin
dollars and general and  administrative  expenses  and an increase in  franchise
fees. In addition,  because of our retained interest in these ventures,  we will
recognize our share of the ventures' net income or loss. Had these ventures been
formed at the beginning of 1999, our 1999 International Company sales would have
declined  approximately 14% as compared to the slight increase reported in 1999.
However, we estimate the overall impact on 1999 operating profit would have been
favorable due to higher franchise fees and equity income.



     Change in Casualty Loss Estimates
     ---------------------------------

     As  described in Note 21, we have  recorded  favorable  adjustments  to our
casualty  loss reserves of $30 million in 1999 ($21 million in the first quarter
and $9 million in the fourth  quarter),  $23  million in 1998 and $18 million in
1997 primarily as a result of our independent  actuary's changes in its estimate
of casualty  losses.  The changes were related to previously  recorded  casualty
loss estimates  determined by our  independent  actuary for both the current and
prior years in which we  retained  some risk of loss.  We believe the  favorable
adjustments are a direct result of our recent investments in safety and security
programs to better manage risk at the store level.

     We will continue to make adjustments  both based on our actuary's  periodic
valuations  as well as whenever  there are  significant  changes in the expected
costs of settling  large  claims not  contemplated  by the  actuary.  Due to the
inherent volatility of our actuarially-determined casualty loss estimates, it is
reasonably  possible that we will experience  changes in estimated  losses which
could be material  to our growth in net income in 2000.  However,  we  currently
expect  the  magnitude  of  such  estimate  changes  will  be  less  than  those
experienced in 1999.  This  expectation is primarily based on indications by our
independent  actuary  that its  current  loss  estimates  are based  more on the
favorable  actual  loss  trends we have  achieved in the last few years than the
more negative trends we experienced in earlier years. We believe that,  since we
record our reserves  for  casualty  losses at a 75%  confidence  level,  we have
mitigated  the negative  impact of adverse  development  and/or  volatility.  At
December 25, 1999, our reserves for casualty losses were $142 million,  compared
to $154 million at year-end 1998.

     Year 2000
     ---------

     As previously  disclosed,  we developed and implemented an  enterprise-wide
plan to prepare our  information  technology  (IT)  systems and  non-information
technology systems with embedded technology  applications (ET) for the Year 2000
issue.  We also took  actions we  believed  would  mitigate  our Year 2000 risks
related  to  our  critical  business  partners   including   suppliers,   banks,
franchisees and other service providers  (primarily data exchange partners).  We
have not experienced  any significant  disruptions of our operating or financial
activities  caused by a failure  of our IT/ET  systems  or  unexpected  business
problems  resulting from Year 2000 issues.  Given the absence of any significant
problems to date,  we do not expect Year 2000 issues to have a material  adverse
effect on TRICON's operations or financial results in 2000.

     We  currently  expect our Year 2000 plan to cost  approximately  $67 to $68
million from  inception of the planned  actions in 1997  through  2000.  We have
incurred approximately $65 million of Year 2000 costs from 1997 through December
25, 1999 of which  approximately $30 million was incurred during 1999. We expect
to incur  approximately  $2 to 3  million  to  complete  all Year  2000  problem
resolution  in 2000.  These costs relate to  additional  validation of our IT/ET
systems and resolution of any Year 2000 problems or issues that arise during the
remainder  of 2000.  We have  funded  the  costs  related  to our Year 2000 plan
through cash flows from operations.

     Extra Week in 2000
     ------------------

     Our fiscal calendar  results in a fifty-third week every five or six years.
Fiscal year 2000 will include a  fifty-third  week in the fourth  quarter.  This
additional week will have a favorable effect on our operating results for 2000.



     Euro Conversion
     ---------------

     On January 1, 1999,  eleven of the fifteen member countries of the European
Economic and Monetary Union ("EMU")  adopted the Euro as a common legal currency
and fixed  conversion  rates were  established.  From that date through no later
than June 30, 2002, participating countries will maintain both legacy currencies
and the Euro as legal tender.  Beginning  January 1, 2002, new  Euro-denominated
bills and coins will be issued, and a transition period of up to six months will
begin during which legacy currencies will be removed from circulation.

     We have Company and franchised businesses in the adopting member countries,
which are preparing for the conversion.  Expenditures associated with conversion
efforts to date have been insignificant. We currently estimate that our spending
over the ensuing three-year transition period will be approximately $10 million,
related  to the  conversion  in the EMU  member  countries  in which we  operate
stores.  In our 1998 Form 10-K,  we estimated  that our spending over the period
would be  approximately  $16  million.  This  estimate was reduced in the fourth
quarter of 1999 to reflect  the  refranchising  of certain  equity  markets  and
enhancements   made   to  our   existing   point-of-sale   ("P.O.S.")   systems.
Approximately 60% of these expenditures  relate to capital  expenditures for new
P.O.S.   and   back-of-restaurant   hardware   and   software   to   accommodate
Euro-denominated  transactions.  We expect that adoption of the Euro by the U.K.
would  significantly  increase this  estimate due to the size of our  businesses
there relative to our aggregate  businesses in the adopting member  countries in
which we operate.

     The pace of ultimate consumer acceptance of and our competitors'  responses
to the Euro are currently unknown and may impact our existing plans. However, we
know that,  from a  competitive  perspective,  we will be required to assess the
impacts of product  price  transparency,  potentially  revise  product  bundling
strategies  and  create  Euro-friendly  price  points  prior to 2002.  We do not
believe  that  these  activities  will have  sustained  adverse  impacts  on our
businesses.  Although the Euro does offer  certain  benefits to our treasury and
procurement activities, these are not currently anticipated to be significant.

     We currently  anticipate that our suppliers and distributors  will continue
to invoice  us in legacy  currencies  until  late 2001.  We expect to begin dual
pricing in our  restaurants in 2001. We expect to compensate  employees in Euros
beginning in 2002.  We believe that the most  critical  activity  regarding  the
conversion  for our  businesses  is the  completion of the rollout of Euro-ready
point-of-sale  equipment  and  software by the end of 2001.  Our  current  plans
should  enable  us to be  Euro-compliant  prior to the  requirements  for  these
changes.  Any delays in our ability to complete our plans,  or in the ability of
our key suppliers to be Euro-compliant,  could have a material adverse impact on
our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     Improvement in Effective Tax Rate
     ---------------------------------

     As discussed on page 28 - 29, we have achieved significant  improvements in
our effective tax rate ("ETR") on ongoing operating profit in both 1999 and 1998
as a result of several tax planning  initiatives and other events.  In 1999, our
ETR was 39.3%, an improvement of 300 basis points from 1998 and 590 basis points
better than 1997.

     We continue to pursue a variety of  initiatives  designed to further reduce
our ETR. The most significant  current initiative is to become eligible to claim
foreign  income tax credits  against our U.S.  income tax  liability  on foreign
sourced  income.  When it becomes  more  likely than not that we will be able to
claim the benefit of foreign tax credits,  which is reasonably possible in 2000,
it should result in a further improvement in our ETR.



     Quantitative and  Qualitative  Disclosures  About  Market Risk of Financial
       Instruments

     Our primary market risk exposure with regard to financial instruments is to
changes in interest  rates,  principally in the United States.  In addition,  an
immaterial  portion  of our debt and  receivables  are  denominated  in  foreign
currencies  which  exposes  us to market  risk  associated  with  exchange  rate
movements.  Historically,  we have used  derivative  financial  instruments on a
limited basis to manage our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations since
the market risk associated with our foreign  currency  denominated  debt was not
considered significant.

     At December 25, 1999, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term
interest  rates  would  result in a reduction  of $12 million in annual  pre-tax
earnings.  The  estimated  reduction is based upon the  unhedged  portion of our
variable rate debt and assumes no change in the volume or composition of debt at
December 25, 1999. In addition,  the fair value of our interest rate  derivative
contracts would increase  approximately  $7 million in value to us, and the fair
value of our unsecured  Notes would  decrease  approximately  $28 million.  Fair
value was determined by discounting the projected cash flows.

     New Accounting Pronouncement

     See Note 2.

     Cautionary Statements

     From time to time, in both written reports and oral statements,  we present
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended.  The  statements  include  those  identified by such words as "may,"
"will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "plan" and other similar terminology.
These  "forward-looking  statements"  reflect our current  expectations  and are
based upon data available at the time of the statements.  Actual results involve
risks and uncertainties,  including both those specific to the Company and those
specific to the industry, and could differ materially from expectations.

     Company  risks and  uncertainties  include,  but are not  limited  to,  the
limited  experience  of our  management  group in  operating  the  Company as an
independent,  publicly owned business; potentially substantial tax contingencies
related to the Spin-off,  which, if they occur, require us to indemnify PepsiCo;
our  substantial  debt leverage and the attendant  potential  restriction on our
ability to borrow in the future, as well as the substantial interest expense and
principal  repayment   obligations;   potential  unfavorable  variances  between
estimated and actual liabilities including accruals for wage and hour litigation
and the liabilities related to the sale of the Non-core Businesses;  the ongoing
business  viability of our key distributor of restaurant  products and equipment
in the United  States and our ability to ensure  adequate  supply of  restaurant
products  and  equipment in our stores;  our ability to complete our  conversion
plans or the ability of our key  suppliers to be  Euro-compliant;  our potential
inability to identify qualified franchisees to purchase restaurants at prices we
consider appropriate under our strategy to reduce the percentage of system units
we operate;  volatility of  actuarially  determined  casualty loss estimates and
adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices.

     Industry risks and  uncertainties  include,  but are not limited to, global
and  local  business,   economic  and  political  conditions;   legislation  and
governmental  regulation;  competition;  success of  operating  initiatives  and
advertising and promotional efforts; volatility of commodity costs and increases
in minimum wage and other  operating  costs;  availability  and cost of land and
construction;  consumer  preferences,  spending patterns and demographic trends;
political or economic instability in local markets and currency exchange rates.



Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.


                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION

                              Item 8 (a) (1) - (2)
                                                                         Page
                                                                       Reference
                                                                       ---------
Item  8 (a) (1) Consolidated Financial Statements

Consolidated Statement of Operations for the fiscal years ended
  December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998
  and December 27, 1997                                                    43

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended
  December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998
  and December 27, 1997                                                    44

Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998      45

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' (Deficit) Equity and
  Comprehensive Income for the fiscal
  years ended December 25, 1999, December 26, 1998 and
  December 27, 1997                                                        46

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                 47

Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements                       82

Report of Independent Auditors, KPMG LLP                                   83

Item 8 (a) (2) Financial Statement Schedules

No schedules are required because either the required information is not present
or not present in amounts sufficient to require  submission of the schedule,  or
because the  information  required is  included  in the above  listed  financial
statements or notes thereto.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated Statement of Operations
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended  December  25, 1999,  December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997
(in millions, except per share amounts)






- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Fiscal years ended  December  25, 1999,  December 26, 1998 and December 27, 1997
(in millions)




Consolidated Balance Sheet
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries
December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998
(in millions)



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(tabular amounts in millions, except share data)

Note 1 - Description of Business

     TRICON Global Restaurants,  Inc. and Subsidiaries (collectively referred to
as "TRICON" or the  "Company") is the world's  largest quick service  restaurant
company  based on the number of system  units,  with almost  30,000 units in 104
countries and territories.  References to TRICON  throughout these  Consolidated
Financial  Statements are made using the first person notations of "we" or "us."
Our worldwide  businesses,  KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell ("Core  Business(es)"),
include the operations,  development and franchising or licensing of a system of
both  traditional  and  non-traditional  quick  service  restaurant  units.  Our
traditional  restaurants  feature  dine-in,  carryout  and,  in some  instances,
drive-thru or delivery service.  Non-traditional units include express units and
kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in  non-traditional  locations
like  airports,  gas and  convenience  stores,  stadiums,  amusement  parks  and
colleges,  where a  full-scale  traditional  outlet  would not be  practical  or
efficient.  Each Core Business has  proprietary  menu items and  emphasizes  the
preparation of food with high quality  ingredients as well as unique recipes and
special  seasonings  to  provide   appealing,   tasty  and  attractive  food  at
competitive  prices.  Approximately  33% of our system units are located outside
the U.S. In late 1994,  we determined  that each Core Business  system should be
rebalanced  toward a  higher  percentage  of  total  system  units  operated  by
franchisees and that Company  underperforming units should be closed. Since that
time, we have  refranchised  5,138 units and closed 2,119 units through December
25, 1999. Our overall Company ownership percentage of total system units was 23%
at December 25, 1999, a decline of 5 percentage points from year-end 1998 and 11
percentage   points  from  year-end  1997.  Our  target  Company   ownership  is
approximately 20%.

     We also previously  operated other non-core businesses disposed of in 1997,
which included California Pizza Kitchen,  Chevys Mexican Restaurant,  D'Angelo's
Sandwich Shops,  East Side Mario's and Hot 'n Now  (collectively,  the "Non-core
Businesses").

Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Our preparation of the accompanying  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in
conformity with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements  and the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from our estimates.

     Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Preparation. TRICON was created as
an independent,  publicly owned company on October 6, 1997 (the "Spin-off Date")
via a tax-free distribution by our former parent, PepsiCo, Inc. ("PepsiCo"),  of
our Common Stock (the  "Distribution"  or "Spin-off") to its  shareholders.  The
accompanying  Consolidated  Financial Statements present our financial position,
results of operations and cash flows as if we had been an independent,  publicly
owned  company  for all  prior  periods  presented.  Intercompany  accounts  and
transactions have been eliminated.  Investments in unconsolidated  affiliates in
which we exercise significant  influence but do not control are accounted for by
the equity method.  Our share of the net income or loss of those  unconsolidated
affiliates  and net  foreign  exchange  gains or losses  are  included  in other
(income) expense.  The Consolidated  Financial  Statements prior to the Spin-off
Date  represent the combined  worldwide  operations of our Core  Businesses  and
Non-core  Businesses  disposed  of in 1997.  To  facilitate  this  presentation,
PepsiCo made certain  allocations  of its  previously  unallocated  interest and
general and administrative  expenses as well as pro forma  computations,  to the
extent possible, of separate income tax provisions for its restaurant segment.



     PepsiCo based its interest  allocations  on its weighted  average  interest
rate applied to the average  annual  balance of investments by and advances from
PepsiCo  and its  allocations  of general  and  administrative  expenses  on our
revenue as a percent of PepsiCo's  total  revenue.  We believe that the bases of
allocation  of interest  expense and general and  administrative  expenses  were
reasonable based on the facts and  circumstances  available at the date of their
allocation,  however,  these  allocations  are not indicative of amounts that we
would have incurred as an independent,  publicly owned company. Our 1997 results
included  $188  million of interest  allocations  and $37 million of general and
administrative  allocations  from  PepsiCo.  PepsiCo  used its  weighted-average
interest rate of 6.1% to calculate the interest  allocation for 1997 through the
Spin-off Date.  PepsiCo managed its tax position on a consolidated  basis, which
took into account the results of all of its  businesses.  For this  reason,  our
historical  effective  tax rates prior to 1998 are not  indicative of our future
tax rates.

     In  addition,  our  capital  structure  changed  in 1997 as a result of the
Distribution  and bears  little  relationship  to the  average  net  outstanding
investments  by and advances from PepsiCo  prior to the Spin-off.  In connection
with the Spin-off,  we borrowed  $4.55 billion to fund a dividend and repayments
to PepsiCo,  which exceeded the net aggregate  balance owed at the Spin-off Date
by $1.1 billion.

     Segment Disclosures.  Effective December 28, 1997, we adopted SFAS No. 131,
"Disclosures  About  Segments of an Enterprise and Related  Information"  ("SFAS
131").  Operating  segments,  as  defined  by SFAS  131,  are  components  of an
enterprise  about which  separate  financial  information  is available  that is
evaluated  regularly by the chief  operating  decision  maker in deciding how to
allocate  resources  and  in  assessing   performance.   This  Statement  allows
aggregation of similar operating segments into a single operating segment if the
businesses  are  considered  similar under the criteria of SFAS 131. We identify
our operating  segments based on management  responsibility  within the U.S. and
International.  For  purposes of applying  SFAS 131, we consider  our three U.S.
Core Business  operating  segments to be similar and therefore  have  aggregated
them into a single reportable operating segment.

     Internal  Development  Costs and Abandoned Site Costs. We capitalize direct
internal  payroll and payroll related costs and direct external costs associated
with  the  acquisition  of a site to be  developed  as a  Company  unit  and the
construction  of a unit on that site.  Only those  site-specific  costs incurred
subsequent  to the time that the site  acquisition  is  considered  probable are
capitalized.  We consider acquisition  probable upon final site approval.  If we
subsequently  make a  determination  that a site for which internal  development
costs have been  capitalized  will not be acquired or developed,  the previously
capitalized  costs  are  expensed  at this  date and  included  in  general  and
administrative expenses.

     Fiscal Year.  Our fiscal year ends on the last Saturday in December and, as
a result,  a  fifty-third  week is added every five or six years.  Fiscal  years
1999,  1998 and 1997  comprised  52  weeks.  Fiscal  year  2000  will  include a
fifty-third  week. Each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year consists
of 12 weeks and the fourth quarter  consists of 16 or 17 weeks. Our subsidiaries
operate on  similar  fiscal  calendars  with  period  end dates  suited to their
businesses.  Period end dates are within  one week of  TRICON's  period end date
with the exception of our  international  businesses,  which close one period or
month earlier to facilitate consolidated reporting.

     Direct Marketing Costs. We report substantially all of our direct marketing
costs in occupancy and other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations,  which include costs of advertising and other marketing  activities.
We charge direct marketing costs to expense ratably in relation to revenues over
the year in which incurred.  Direct marketing costs deferred at year-end consist
of media and related ad production  costs. We expense these costs when the media
or ad is  first  used.  Deferred  advertising  expense,  classified  as  prepaid
expenses  in the  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  was $3  million  in 1999 and $4
million in 1998. Our  advertising  expenses were $385 million,  $435 million and
$517  million  in  1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.



The decline in our advertising expense is a direct result of substantially fewer
Company stores as a result of our major refranchising program.

     Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses, which
we expense as  incurred,  were $24  million in 1999 and $21 million in both 1998
and 1997.

     Stock-Based   Employee   Compensation.   We  measure  stock-based  employee
compensation cost for financial statement purposes in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
its related  interpretations  and include  pro forma  information  in Note 15 as
required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based  Compensation"  ("SFAS 123").  Accordingly,  we measure compensation
cost for the stock option  grants to our  employees as the excess of the average
market  price of our Common Stock at the grant date over the amount the employee
must pay for the stock.  Our policy is to generally  grant stock  options at the
average market price of the underlying Common Stock at the date of grant.

     Earnings  (Loss)  Per  Common  Share.  In  the  accompanying   Consolidated
Statement of Operations,  we have omitted loss per share information for 1997 as
our capital  structure as an  independent,  publicly owned company did not exist
for the entire year.

     Derivative Instruments.  From time to time, we utilize interest rate swaps,
collars and forward rate  agreements  to hedge our exposure to  fluctuations  in
variable interest rates.

     We recognize the interest  differential  to be paid or received on interest
rate swap and forward rate  agreements as an  adjustment to interest  expense as
the differential  occurs.  We recognize the interest  differential to be paid or
received on an interest rate collar as an adjustment to interest expense only if
the interest  rate falls below or exceeds the  contractual  collared  range.  We
reflect  the  recognized  interest  differential  not yet settled in cash in the
accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet as a current receivable or payable. If
we were to terminate an interest rate swap, collar or forward rate position, any
gain or loss  realized  upon  termination  would be deferred  and  amortized  to
interest  expense over the remaining term of the underlying  debt  instrument it
was intended to modify or would be recognized immediately if the underlying debt
instrument was settled prior to maturity.

     We recognize  foreign  exchange gains and losses on forward  contracts that
are  designated  and effective as hedges of foreign  currency  receivables  each
period as the  differential  occurs.  This is fully offset by the  corresponding
gain or loss recognized in income on the currency translation of the receivable,
as both  amounts  are  based  upon the  same  exchange  rates.  We  reflect  the
recognized  foreign  currency  differential  not  yet  settled  in  cash  on the
accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet each period as a current receivable or
payable.  If a foreign  currency  forward contract was to be terminated prior to
maturity,  the gain or loss  recognized  upon  termination  would be immediately
recognized into income.

     We defer  gains and losses on futures  contracts  that are  designated  and
effective as hedges of future  commodity  purchases and include them in the cost
of the related raw  materials  when  purchased.  Changes in the value of futures
contracts that we use to hedge commodity  purchases are highly correlated to the
changes in the value of the purchased  commodity.  If the degree of  correlation
between the futures  contracts and the purchase  contracts were to diminish such
that the two were no longer considered highly correlated,  we would recognize in
income subsequent changes in the value of the futures contracts.

     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents.  Cash  equivalents  represent  funds  we have
temporarily  invested (with original  maturities not exceeding  three months) as
part of managing our day-to-day operating cash receipts and disbursements.



     Inventories. We value our inventories at the lower of cost (computed on the
first-in, first-out method) or net realizable value.

     Property,  Plant and  Equipment.  We state  property,  plant and  equipment
("PP&E") at cost less  accumulated  depreciation  and  amortization,  impairment
writedowns and valuation allowances.  We calculate depreciation and amortization
on a  straight-line  basis  over the  estimated  useful  lives of the  assets as
follows:  5 to 25 years  for  buildings  and  improvements,  3 to 20  years  for
machinery and  equipment and 3 to 7 years for  capitalized  software  costs.  We
suspend  depreciation and amortization on assets related to restaurants that are
held for disposal.  Our depreciation and amortization  expense was $345 million,
$372 million and $460 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Intangible Assets.  Intangible assets include both identifiable intangibles
and  goodwill  arising  from the  allocation  of purchase  prices of  businesses
acquired.  Where  appropriate,  the  intangibles are allocated to the individual
store level at the time of acquisition. We base amounts assigned to identifiable
intangibles on independent appraisals or internal estimates. Goodwill represents
the residual purchase price after allocation to all identifiable net assets. Our
intangible  assets  are stated at  historical  allocated  cost less  accumulated
amortization,  impairment  writedowns  and  valuation  allowances.  We  amortize
intangible  assets  on a  straight-line  basis as  follows:  up to 20 years  for
reacquired franchise rights, 3 to 34 years for trademarks and other identifiable
intangibles  and up to 20 years for goodwill.  As discussed  further  below,  we
suspend amortization on intangible assets allocated to restaurants that are held
for  disposal.  Our  amortization  expense was $44 million,  $52 million and $70
million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Franchise  and License  Fees.  We execute  franchise or license  agreements
covering each point of  distribution  which provide the terms of our arrangement
with the franchisee or licensee.  Our franchise and certain  license  agreements
generally  require the franchisee or licensee to pay an initial,  non-refundable
fee. Our  agreements  also require  continuing  fees based upon a percentage  of
sales.  Subject to our approval  and payment of a renewal fee, a franchisee  may
generally renew its agreement upon its expiration. Our direct costs of the sales
and  servicing of franchise  and license  agreements  are charged to general and
administrative expense as incurred.

     We recognize  initial fees as revenue when we have performed  substantially
all initial services required by the franchising or licensing  agreement,  which
is generally  upon opening of a store.  We recognize  continuing  fees as earned
with an appropriate provision for estimated  uncollectible amounts. We recognize
renewal fees in earnings when a renewal agreement becomes effective.  We include
initial  fees  collected  upon  the  sale of a  restaurant  to a  franchisee  in
refranchising gains (losses).

     Refranchising  Gains  (Losses).  Refranchising  gains (losses)  include the
gains  or  losses  from  the  sales  of  our  restaurants  to new  and  existing
franchisees   and  the  related   initial   franchise  fees  reduced  by  direct
administrative  costs  of  refranchising.   We  recognize  gains  on  restaurant
refranchisings  when the sale transaction  closes,  the franchisee has a minimum
amount of the purchase  price in at-risk  equity and we are  satisfied  that the
franchisee can meet its financial obligations. Otherwise, we defer refranchising
gains  until  those  criteria  have been met.  In  executing  our  refranchising
initiatives,  we most often offer groups of  restaurants.  We only  consider the
stores in the group "held for  disposal"  where the group is expected to be sold
at a loss. We recognize  estimated  losses on restaurants to be refranchised and
suspend   depreciation  and  amortization  when:  (1)  we  make  a  decision  to
refranchise stores; (2) the estimated fair value less costs to sell is less than
the carrying amount of the stores; and (3) the stores can be immediately removed
from  operations.  For groups of  restaurants  expected to be sold at a gain, we
typically  do not  suspend  depreciation  and  amortization  until  the  sale is
probable.  For  practical  purposes,  we treat the closing  date as the point at
which the sale is probable. When we make a decision to retain a store previously
held for refranchising,  we revalue the store at the lower of its net book value
at our  original  disposal  decision  date less normal  depreciation  during the
period held for disposal or its current fair market  value.  This value  becomes
the  store's new cost basis.  We



charge (or credit) any difference  between the store's  carrying  amount and its
new cost to  refranchising  gains  (losses).  When we make a decision to close a
store previously held for  refranchising,  we reverse any previously  recognized
refranchising loss and then record the store closure costs as described below.

     Store Closure Costs.  Effective for closure decisions made on or subsequent
to April 23, 1998,  we  recognize  store  closure  costs when we have closed the
restaurant  within the same quarter our decision is made.  Store  closure  costs
include  the  cost  of  writing-down   (impairing)  the  carrying  amount  of  a
restaurant's  assets to  estimated  fair  market  value less costs of  disposal.
Additionally,  we record a liability  for the net present value of any remaining
operating lease  obligations  after the expected  closure date, net of estimated
sublease income, if any, at the date the closure is considered probable.

     Impairment  of Long-Lived  Assets to be Held and Used in the  Business.  We
review our long-lived assets, including any allocated intangible assets, related
to  each  restaurant  to be held  and  used in the  business  semi-annually  for
impairment,  or whenever  events or changes in  circumstances  indicate that the
carrying amount of a restaurant may not be recoverable.  We evaluate restaurants
using a  "two-year  history of  operating  losses" as our primary  indicator  of
potential impairment.  Based on the best information available, we write down an
impaired  restaurant to its estimated  fair market value,  which becomes its new
cost basis.  We generally  measure  estimated  fair market value by  discounting
estimated  future cash flows. In addition,  after April 23, 1998, when we decide
to close a store beyond the quarter in which the closure decision is made, it is
reviewed for  impairment  and  depreciable  lives are adjusted.  The  impairment
evaluation is based on the estimated  cash flows from  continuing  use until the
expected disposal date plus the expected terminal value.

     Considerable  management  judgment is  necessary  to  estimate  future cash
flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from our estimates.

     Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Enterprise-Level
Goodwill.  Our  methodology  for  determining  and  measuring  impairment of our
investments  in  unconsolidated  affiliates  and  enterprise-level  goodwill  is
similar to the methodology we use for our restaurants except (a) the recognition
test for an  investment  in an  unconsolidated  affiliate  compares the carrying
amount  of our  investment  to a  forecast  of our  share of the  unconsolidated
affiliate's  undiscounted  cash flows  including  interest and taxes  instead of
undiscounted  cash flows before  interest and taxes used for our restaurants and
(b) enterprise-level  goodwill is generally evaluated at a country level instead
of by individual  restaurant.  Also, we record impairment charges related to our
investments in unconsolidated  affiliates whenever other circumstances  indicate
that a decrease in the value of an investment  has occurred  which is other than
temporary.

     Considerable  management  judgment is  necessary  to  estimate  future cash
flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from our estimates.

     New Accounting  Pronouncement Not Yet Adopted.  In June 1998, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting   for  Derivative   Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities"  ("SFAS  133").  SFAS  133  establishes   accounting  and  reporting
standards  requiring  that  every  derivative   instrument   (including  certain
derivative  instruments  embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance
sheet as either  an asset or  liability  measured  at its fair  value.  SFAS 133
requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized  currently in
earnings unless specific hedge accounting  criteria are met. Special  accounting
for  qualifying  hedges  allows a  derivative's  gains and  losses to offset the
related change in fair value on the hedged item in the consolidated statement of
operations,  and requires that a company must formally  document,  designate and
assess the effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting.

     In June 1999,  the FASB amended  SFAS 133 to extend the  required  adoption
date from fiscal years  beginning  after June 15, 1999 to fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2000. The amendment was in response to



issues identified by FASB constituents regarding implementation  difficulties. A
company may implement  SFAS 133 as of the beginning of any fiscal  quarter after
issuance,  (that is, fiscal  quarters  beginning June 16, 1998 and  thereafter).
SFAS 133 cannot be applied retroactively. When adopted, SFAS 133 must be applied
to (a) derivative instruments and (b) certain derivative instruments embedded in
hybrid  contracts  that were issued,  acquired or  substantively  modified after
December 31, 1998 (and, at the company's election, before January 1, 1999).

     We have  not  yet  quantified  the  effects  of  adopting  SFAS  133 on our
financial  statements or determined the timing or method of our adoption of SFAS
133. However, the adoption of SFAS 133 could increase volatility in our earnings
and other comprehensive income.

     Reclassifications.  We have reclassified  certain items in the accompanying
Consolidated  Financial  Statements for prior periods to be comparable  with the
classification  we adopted for the fiscal year ended  December 25,  1999.  These
reclassifications had no effect on previously reported net income or loss.

Note 3 - Comprehensive Income

     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income includes:


     Accumulated   Other   Comprehensive   Income  consisted  of  the  following
components as of December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998:

                                                    1999          1998
                                                  ---------    ---------
 Foreign currency translation adjustment          $  (133)     $  (148)
 Minimum pension liability adjustment                   -           (2)
                                                  ---------    ---------
 Total accumulated other comprehensive income     $  (133)     $  (150)
                                                  =========    =========

Note 4 - Earnings Per Common Share ("EPS")
                                                    1999          1998
                                                  ---------    ---------
Net income                                        $   627      $   445
                                                  =========    =========

Basic EPS:
- ----------
Weighted-average common shares outstanding            153          153
                                                  =========    =========
Basic EPS                                         $  4.09      $  2.92
                                                  =========    =========

Diluted EPS:
- ------------
Weighted-average common shares outstanding            153          153
Shares assumed issued on exercise of dilutive
  share equivalents                                    24           20
Shares assumed purchased with proceeds of
  dilutive share equivalents                          (17)         (17)
                                                  ---------    ---------
Shares applicable to diluted earnings                 160          156
                                                  =========    =========
Diluted EPS                                       $  3.92     $   2.84
                                                  =========    =========

     Unexercised  employee stock options to purchase  approximately  2.5 million
and 1 million  shares of our Common Stock for the years ended  December 25, 1999
and December 26, 1998,  respectively,  were not



included in the  computation of diluted EPS because their  exercise  prices were
greater than the average market price of our Common Stock during the year.

     We have omitted EPS data for the year ended December 27, 1997 since we were
not an independent,  publicly owned company with a capital  structure of our own
for the entire year.

Note 5 - Items Affecting Comparability of Net Income (Loss)

Accounting Changes
- ------------------

     In 1998 and 1999, we adopted  several  accounting and human resource policy
changes  (collectively,   the  "accounting  changes")  that  impacted  our  1999
operating profit. These changes, which we believe are material in the aggregate,
fall into three categories:

o    required changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"),
o    discretionary  methodology  changes  implemented to more accurately measure
     certain liabilities and
o    policy changes driven by our human resource and accounting  standardization
     programs.

     Required Changes in GAAP- Effective December 27, 1998, we adopted Statement
of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"),  "Accounting  for the Costs of Computer  Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." SOP 98-1 identifies the characteristics
of internal-use  software and specifies that once the preliminary  project stage
is  complete,  direct  external  costs,  certain  direct  internal  payroll  and
payroll-related  costs and interest  costs  incurred  during the  development of
computer  software  for  internal  use  should  be  capitalized  and  amortized.
Previously,  we expensed  all  software  development  and  procurement  costs as
incurred. In 1999, we capitalized approximately $13 million of internal software
development  costs and third party software costs that we would have  previously
expensed. As of December 25, 1999, no interest costs were capitalized due to the
insignificance  of amounts.  The majority of the software being developed is not
yet ready for its intended use. The amortization of assets that became ready for
their intended use in 1999 was immaterial.

     In addition,  we adopted  Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 97-11 ("EITF
97-11"),  "Accounting  for  Internal  Costs  Relating  to Real  Estate  Property
Acquisitions,"   upon  its  issuance  in  March  1998.  EITF  97-11  limits  the
capitalization of internal real estate acquisition costs to those  site-specific
costs  incurred  subsequent  to the time  that the real  estate  acquisition  is
probable.  We consider  acquisition  of the  property  probable  upon final site
approval.  In the first  quarter of 1999,  we also made a  discretionary  policy
change limiting the types of costs eligible for  capitalization  to those direct
cost types described as  capitalizable  under SOP 98-1. Prior to the adoption of
EITF  97-11,  all   pre-acquisition   real  estate  activities  were  considered
capitalizable.  This change  unfavorably  impacted our 1999 operating  profit by
approximately $3 million.

     To conform to the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  April 23,  1998
letter  interpretation of Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be  Disposed  Of," our store  closure  accounting  policy  was  changed in 1998.
Effective  for closure  decisions  made on or  subsequent  to April 23, 1998, we
recognize store closure costs when we have closed the restaurant within the same
quarter  the  closure  decision  is made.  When we decide to close a  restaurant
beyond the quarter in which the closure  decision  is made,  it is reviewed  for
impairment.  The impairment evaluation is based on the estimated cash flows from
continuing  use until the expected date of disposal  plus the expected  terminal
value.  If the restaurant is not fully  impaired,  we continue to depreciate the
assets over their estimated  remaining  useful life. Prior to April 23, 1998, we
recognized  store  closure  costs  and  generally  suspended   depreciation  and
amortization  when we  decided  to close a  restaurant  within  the next  twelve
months.  This change  resulted in additional  depreciation  and  amortization of
approximately $3 million through April 23, 1999.



     Discretionary  Methodology  Changes- In 1999, the  methodology  used by our
independent actuary was refined and enhanced to provide a more reliable estimate
of the  self-insured  portion of our  current  and prior  years'  ultimate  loss
projections related to workers'  compensation,  general liability and automobile
liability  insurance  programs  (collectively  "casualty  loss(es)").  Our prior
practice  was to apply a fixed  factor to  increase  our  independent  actuary's
ultimate loss projections which was at the 51% confidence level for each year to
approximate  our  targeted  75%  confidence  level.  Confidence  level means the
likelihood  that our  actual  casualty  losses  will be equal to or below  those
estimates.  Based on our  independent  actuary's  opinion,  our  prior  practice
produced a very conservative confidence factor at a level higher than our target
of 75%.  Our actuary now  provides an  actuarial  estimate at our  targeted  75%
confidence  level in the aggregate  for all  self-insured  years.  The change in
methodology resulted in a one-time increase in our 1999 operating profit of over
$8 million.

     At the end of 1998,  we  changed  our  method of  determining  the  pension
discount rate to better reflect the assumed investment  strategies we would most
likely use to invest any  short-term  cash  surpluses.  Accounting  for pensions
requires us to develop an assumed  interest  rate on  securities  with which the
pension  liabilities could be effectively  settled.  In estimating this discount
rate,  we look at  rates  of  return  on  high-quality  corporate  fixed  income
securities currently available and expected to be available during the period to
maturity of the pension  benefits.  As it is  impractical  to find an investment
portfolio  which  exactly  matches the estimated  payment  stream of the pension
benefits,  we often have projected  short-term  cash surpluses.  Previously,  we
assumed that all short-term cash surpluses would be invested in U.S.  government
securities.  Our new methodology assumes that our investment strategies would be
equally divided between U.S.  government  securities and high-quality  corporate
fixed income securities.  The pension discount  methodology change resulted in a
one-time increase in our 1999 operating profit of approximately $6 million.

     Human  Resource  and  Accounting  Standardization  Programs  - In the first
quarter of 1999, we began the  standardization of our U.S. personnel  practices.
At the end of 1999,  our vacation  policies  were  conformed to a  calendar-year
based,  earn-as-you-go,  use-or-lose  policy.  The  change  provided  a one-time
favorable  increase in our 1999 operating  profit of  approximately  $7 million.
Other  accounting  policy  standardization  among our three U.S. Core Businesses
provided  a  one-time  favorable  increase  in  our  1999  operating  profit  of
approximately $1 million.

     The impact of the above described accounting changes is summarized below:

                                                    Impact
                                                  ---------
GAAP                                              $     7
Methodology                                            14
Standardization                                         8
                                                  ---------
  Total                                           $    29
                                                  =========

     These changes impacted our results as follows:

Restaurant margin                                 $    11
General and administrative expenses                    18
                                                  ---------
  Operating Profit                                $    29
                                                  =========

U.S.                                              $    15
International                                           -
Unallocated                                            14
                                                  ---------
  Total                                           $    29
                                                  =========
After-tax                                         $    18
                                                  =========
Per diluted share                                 $  0.11
                                                  =========



1997 Fourth Quarter Charge
- --------------------------

     In the fourth  quarter of 1997, we recorded a $530 million  unusual  charge
($425 million after-tax). The charge included estimates for (1) costs of closing
stores, primarily at Pizza Hut and internationally; (2) reduction to fair market
value,  less costs to sell, of the carrying  amounts of certain  restaurants  we
intended to refranchise;  (3) impairment of certain  restaurants  intended to be
used in the business;  (4) impairment of certain  investments in  unconsolidated
affiliates to be retained; and (5) costs of related personnel reductions. Of the
$530 million charge,  approximately $401 million related to asset writedowns and
approximately $129 million related to liabilities,  primarily  occupancy-related
costs and, to a much lesser extent,  severance. The liabilities were expected to
be settled from cash flows  provided by operations.  Through  December 25, 1999,
the amounts used apply only to the actions covered by the charge.

     The components of the 1997 fourth quarter charge are detailed below:


     During 1999 and 1998, we continued to  re-evaluate  our prior  estimates of
the  fair  market  value  of  units  to be  refranchised  or  closed  and  other
liabilities arising from the charge. In 1999, we recorded favorable  adjustments
of $13 million ($10 million  after-tax) and $11 million ($10 million  after-tax)
included in facility  actions net gain and unusual  items,  respectively.  These
adjustments  relate to  lower-than-expected  losses  from  stores  disposed  of,
decisions to retain stores originally  expected to be disposed of and changes in
estimated  costs.  In 1998,  favorable  adjustments  of $54 million ($33 million
after-tax)  and $11  million ($7 million  after-tax)  were  included in facility
actions net gain and unusual items,  respectively.  These adjustments  primarily
related to decisions to retain certain stores originally expected to be disposed
of,  lower-than-expected  losses from stores  disposed  of and  favorable  lease
settlements with certain lessors related to stores closed.

     Our operating profit includes  benefits from the suspension of depreciation
and  amortization of  approximately  $12 million ($7 million  after-tax) and $33
million ($21 million after-tax) in 1999 and 1998, respectively,  for stores held
for  disposal.   The  relatively   short-term  benefits  from  depreciation  and
amortization  suspension related to stores that were operating at the end of the
respective  periods  ceased  when the  stores  were  refranchised,  closed  or a
subsequent decision was made to retain the stores.

     Although we  originally  expected to  refranchise  or close all 1,392 units
included in the original  charge by year-end 1998, the disposal of 531 units was
delayed.  In 1999, we disposed of 326 units,  and decisions  were made to retain
195 units originally expected to be disposed of in 1999.



     Below is a summary of activity through 1999 related to the units covered by
the 1997 fourth quarter charge:

                                     Units Expected to be        Total Units
                                    Closed      Refranchised      Remaining
                                   --------    --------------    -----------
Units at December 27, 1997            740            652            1,392
Units disposed of                    (426)          (320)            (746)
Units retained                        (88)           (20)            (108)
Change in method of disposal         (109)           109                -
Other                                   6            (13)              (7)
                                   --------    --------------    -----------
Units at December 26, 1998            123            408              531
Units disposed of                     (79)          (247)            (326)
Units retained                        (29)          (166)            (195)
Change in method of disposal          (21)            21                -
Other                                   6            (16)             (10)
                                   --------    --------------    -----------
Units at December 25, 1999              -              -                -
                                   ========    ==============    ===========


     Below is a  summary  of the 1999 and 1998  activity  related  to our  asset
valuation  allowances and liabilities  recognized as a result of the 1997 fourth
quarter charge:

                                      Asset
                                     Valuation
                                    Allowances      Liabilities       Total
                                   ------------    -------------    ---------
Balance at December 27, 1997       $   261         $    129         $   390
Amounts used                          (131)             (54)           (185)
(Income) expense impacts:
  Completed transactions               (27)              (7)            (34)
  Decision changes                     (22)             (17)            (39)
  Estimate changes                      15               (7)              8
Other                                    1                -               1
                                   ------------    -------------    ---------
Balance at December 26, 1998       $    97         $     44         $   141
Amounts used                           (87)             (32)           (119)
(Income) expense impacts:
  Completed transactions                (5)               -              (5)
  Decision changes                       1               (3)             (2)
  Estimate changes                      (7)              (9)            (16)
Other                                    1                -               1
                                   ------------    -------------    ---------
Balance at December 25, 1999       $     -         $      -         $     -
                                   ============    =============    =========

Facility Actions Net (Gain) Loss
- --------------------------------

     Facility actions net (gain) loss consists of three components:

o    Gains  and  losses  on  sales  of  our  restaurants  to  new  and  existing
     franchisees,
o    Costs of closing our underperforming stores and
o    Impairment charges both for restaurants we intend to continue to use in the
     business and,  since April 23, 1998,  restaurants we intend to close beyond
     the quarter in which the closure decision is made.



     The components of facility  actions net (gain) loss for 1999, 1998 and 1997
were as follows:

(a)  Includes initial  franchise fees in the U.S. of $38 million in 1999 and $39
     million  in both 1998 and 1997,  and in  International  of $7  million,  $5
     million and $2 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. See Note 6.

(b)  Impairment  charges for 1999 and 1998 were  recorded  against the following
     asset categories:

                                         1999      1998
                                        ------    ------
     Property, plant and equipment      $  25     $  25
     Intangible assets:
       Goodwill                             1         4
       Reacquired franchise rights          2         2
                                        ------    ------
     Total impairment                   $  28     $  31
                                        ======    ======



      The  following  table  displays  a summary  of the 1999 and 1998  activity
related to all stores  disposed  of or held for  disposal  including  the stores
covered  by the fourth  quarter  1997  charge.  We  believe  that the  remaining
carrying amounts are adequate to complete our disposal actions.

                                            Asset
                                          Valuation
                                         Allowances      Liabilities
                                        ------------    ------------
Carrying amount at December 27, 1997    $    291        $     115
Amounts used                                (148)             (36)
(Income) expense impact:
  New decisions                               16                5
  Estimate/decision changes                  (33)              (8)
Other                                          1                1
                                        ------------    ------------
Carrying amount at December 26, 1998         127               77
Amounts used                                (100)             (36)
(Income) expense impact:
  New decisions                                9               15
  Estimate/decision changes                  (20)              15
Other                                          4                -
                                        ------------    ------------
Carrying amount at December 25, 1999    $     20        $      71
                                        ============    ============

     The carrying values of assets held for disposal (which include stores,  our
idle processing  facility in Wichita,  Kansas and a minority interest investment
in a non-core  business in 1998) by reportable  operating segment as of December
25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 were as follows:

                                         1999        1998
                                        ------     -------
                 U.S.                   $  40      $  111
                 International              -          46
                                        ------     -------
                 Total                  $  40      $  157
                                        ======     =======

     We  anticipate  that all assets held for disposal at December 25, 1999 will
be disposed of during 2000.

     The results of  operations  for stores held for  disposal or disposed of in
1999, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:


     The  loss of  restaurant  margin  from the  disposal  of  these  stores  is
mitigated in income  before  taxes by the  increased  franchise  fees for stores
refranchised,  lower general and  administrative  expenses and reduced  interest
costs  primarily  resulting  from the  reduction of debt by the  after-tax  cash
proceeds from our refranchising  activities.  The margin reported above includes
the  benefit  from  the  suspension  of   depreciation   and   amortization   of
approximately   $9  million  ($8   million  in  the  U.S.   and  $1  million  in
International),  $32  million  ($24  million  in  the  U.S.  and $8  million  in
International) and $17 million in the U.S. in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
on assets held for disposal.



Unusual Items
- -------------

                          1999       1998         1997
                       --------    -------    ---------
     U.S.              $   48      $   11     $    85
     International          3           4          99
                       --------    -------    ---------
     Worldwide         $   51      $   15     $   184
                       ========    =======    =========
     After-tax         $   29      $    3     $   165
                       ========    =======    =========

     On January 31, 2000, AmeriServe Food Distribution, Inc. ("AmeriServe"), our
primary U.S.  distributor,  filed for  protection  under  Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the bankruptcy,  we wrote off  approximately $41
million of amounts owed to us by AmeriServe,  including a $15 million  unsecured
loan.  See Note 22. In  addition  to the  AmeriServe  write-off,  unusual  items
included  the  following  in 1999:  (1) an  increase in the  estimated  costs of
settlement of certain wage and hour litigation and associated  defense and other
costs incurred, as more fully described in Note 21; (2) favorable adjustments to
our 1997 fourth quarter charge related to lower actual costs;  (3) the writedown
to estimated fair market value less cost to sell of our idle Wichita  processing
facility;  (4) costs  associated  with the pending  formation  of  international
unconsolidated   affiliates  in  Canada  and  Poland;   (5)  the  impairment  of
enterprise-level  goodwill  in one  of our  international  businesses;  and  (6)
additional severance and other exit costs related to 1998 strategic decisions to
streamline the  infrastructure  of our international  businesses.  The estimated
fair market value of our idle Wichita  processing  facility  was  determined  by
using  the  estimated  selling  price  based  primarily  on an  evaluation  by a
qualified third party.

     Unusual items in 1998 included:  (1) an increase in the estimated  costs of
settlement of certain wage and hour litigation and associated  defense and other
costs  incurred;  (2) severance  and other exit costs related to 1998  strategic
decisions to streamline the infrastructure of our international businesses;  (3)
favorable  adjustments  to our 1997 fourth quarter charge related to anticipated
actions that were not taken, primarily severance; (4) the writedown to estimated
fair  market  value less costs to sell of our  minority  interest in a privately
held non-core business, previously carried at cost; and (5) reversals of certain
valuation  allowances  and lease  liabilities  relating to  better-than-expected
proceeds  from the  sale of  properties  and  settlement  of  lease  liabilities
associated with properties retained upon the sale of a Non-core Business.

     Unusual items in 1997 included:  (1) $120 million ($125 million  after-tax)
of unusual asset  impairment and severance  charges  included in our 1997 fourth
quarter  charge  described  above;  (2) charges to further  reduce the  carrying
amounts of the Non-core  Businesses held for disposal to estimated market value,
less  costs  to  sell;  and (3)  charges  relating  to the  estimated  costs  of
settlement of certain wage and hour  litigation and the  associated  defense and
other costs incurred.

Note 6 - Franchise and License Fees
                                           1999         1998        1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Initial fees, including renewal fees     $   71      $    67      $   86
Initial franchise fees included in
  refranchising gains                       (45)         (44)        (41)
                                         --------    ---------    --------
                                             26           23          45
Continuing fees                             697          604         533
                                         --------    ---------    --------
                                         $  723      $   627      $  578
                                         ========    =========    ========

Initial fees in 1997 include $24 million of special KFC renewal fees.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------



Note 7 - Other (Income) Expense
                                        1999          1998           1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity income from investments in
  unconsolidated affiliates         $      (19)   $      (18)     $       (8)
Foreign exchange net loss (gain)             3            (6)             16
                                    ------------  ------------    ------------
                                    $      (16)   $      (24)     $        8
                                    ============  ============    ============

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 8 - Property, Plant and Equipment, net

                                                      1999           1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land                                              $      572      $      707
Buildings and improvements                             2,553           2,861
Capital leases, primarily buildings                      102             124
Machinery and equipment                                1,598           1,795
                                                  ------------    ------------
                                                       4,825           5,487
Accumulated depreciation and amortization             (2,279)         (2,491)
Disposal valuation allowances                            (15)           (100)
                                                  ------------    ------------
                                                  $    2,531      $    2,896
                                                  ============    ============

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 9 - Intangible Assets, net

                                                      1999           1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Reacquired franchise rights                       $      326      $      418
Trademarks and other identifiable intangibles            124             123
Goodwill                                                  77             110
                                                  ------------    ------------
                                                  $      527      $      651
                                                  ============    ============

     In  determining  the  above  amounts,   we  have   subtracted   accumulated
amortization  of $456 million for 1999 and $473  million for 1998.  We have also
subtracted disposal valuation allowances of $18 million for 1998.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 10 - Accounts Payable and Other Current Liabilities

                                                      1999           1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accounts payable                                  $      375      $      476
Accrued compensation and benefits                        281             310
Other accrued taxes                                       85              98
Other current liabilities                                344             399
                                                  ------------    ------------
                                                  $    1,085      $    1,283
                                                  ============    ============

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Note 11 - Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt
                                                      1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term Borrowings
Current maturities of long-term debt              $     47      $     46
Other                                                   70            50
                                                  ----------    ----------
                                                  $    117      $     96
                                                  ==========    ==========
Long-term Debt
Senior, unsecured Term Loan Facility, due
 October 2002                                     $    774      $    926
Senior, unsecured Revolving Credit Facility,
 expires October 2002                                  955         1,815
Senior, Unsecured Notes, due May 2005 (7.45%)          352           352
Senior, Unsecured Notes, due May 2008 (7.65%)          251           251
Capital lease obligations (see Note 12)                 97           117
Other, due through 2010 (6% - 11%)                       9            21
                                                  ----------    ----------
                                                     2,438         3,482
Less current maturities of long-term debt              (47)          (46)
                                                  ----------    ----------
                                                  $  2,391      $  3,436
                                                  ==========    ==========

     Our primary  bank credit  agreement,  as amended in March 1999 and February
2000, is currently comprised of a senior,  unsecured Term Loan Facility and a $3
billion senior unsecured Revolving Credit Facility  (collectively referred to as
the  "Credit  Facilities")  which  mature on  October  2,  2002.  Our U.S.  Core
Businesses have  guaranteed the Credit  Facilities.  Amounts  borrowed under the
Term Loan Facility that we repay may not be reborrowed.

     The Credit Facilities are subject to various covenants  including financial
covenants relating to maintenance of specific leverage and fixed charge coverage
ratios.  In addition,  the Credit  Facilities  contain  affirmative and negative
covenants  including,  among other  things,  limitations  on certain  additional
indebtedness  including  guarantees of indebtedness,  cash dividends,  aggregate
non-U.S. investment and certain other transactions, as defined in the agreement.
Since October 6, 1997, we have complied with all covenants  governing the Credit
Facilities. The Credit Facilities contain mandatory prepayment terms for certain
capital market  transactions and  refranchising of restaurants as defined in the
agreement.

     The amended  Credit  Facilities,  under which at amendment  we  voluntarily
reduced  our  maximum  borrowing  under the  Revolving  Credit  Facility by $250
million,  gives us additional flexibility with respect to acquisitions and other
permitted  investments  and  the  repurchase  of  Common  Stock  or  payment  of
dividends.  We deferred the Credit  Facilities  amendment costs of approximately
$2.6  million.  These costs are being  amortized  to interest  expense  over the
remaining life of the Credit Facilities.  Additionally,  an insignificant amount
of our previously  deferred  original Credit Facilities costs was written off in
the second quarter of 1999 as a result of this amendment.

     In addition,  on February  25, 2000,  we entered into an agreement to amend
certain terms of our Credit  Facilities.  This amendment will give us additional
flexibility  with  respect  to  permitted  liens,  restricted  payments,   other
permitted  investments  and  transferring  assets to  foreign  subsidiaries.  We
deferred the Credit  Facilities  amendment  costs of  approximately  $2 million.
These costs will be amortized  into interest  expense over the remaining life of
the Credit Facilities.

     Interest on amounts  borrowed is payable at least  quarterly at rates which
are variable,  based  principally on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR")
plus a variable  margin factor as defined in the credit  agreement.  At December
25, 1999 and December  26,  1998,  the  weighted  average  interest  rate on our
variable rate debt was 6.6% and 6.2%,  respectively,  which includes the effects
of associated  interest rate swaps and collars.  See Note



13 for a discussion  of our use of  derivative  instruments,  our  management of
inherent  credit risk and fair value  information  related to debt and  interest
rate swaps.

     At  December  25,  1999,  we had  unused  borrowings  available  under  the
Revolving Credit Facility of $1.9 billion,  net of outstanding letters of credit
of $152 million. Under the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility, we may borrow
up to $3.0 billion until maturity less outstanding  letters of credit.  We pay a
facility fee on the Revolving  Credit  Facility.  The variable margin factor and
facility  fee rate is  determined  based on the more  favorable  of our leverage
ratio or third-party  senior debt ratings as defined in the agreement.  Facility
fees  accrued at December  25, 1999 and  December 26, 1998 were $1.1 million and
$1.7 million, respectively.

     The initial  borrowings  of $4.55  billion  under the Credit  Facilities at
inception in October 1997 were  primarily  used to fund a $4.5 billion  Spin-off
related payment to PepsiCo. We used the remaining $50 million of the proceeds to
provide cash  collateral  securing  certain  obligations  previously  secured by
PepsiCo,  to pay fees and expenses related to the Spin-off and the establishment
of the Credit Facilities and for general corporate purposes.

     In 1997,  we filed with the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  a shelf
registration  statement  with respect to offerings of up to $2 billion of senior
unsecured  debt. In May 1998, we issued $350 million 7.45%  Unsecured  Notes due
May  15,  2005  and  $250  million  7.65%  Unsecured  Notes  due  May  15,  2008
(collectively referred to as the "Notes"). We used the proceeds, net of issuance
costs, to reduce existing  borrowings under the Credit Facilities.  We carry the
Notes net of related  discounts,  which are being amortized over the life of the
Notes. The unamortized  discount for both issues was approximately  $1.0 million
at December 25, 1999 and $1.1 million at December  26,  1998.  The  amortization
during  1999  and 1998  was not  significant.  Interest  is  payable  May 15 and
November 15 and commenced on November 15, 1998. In  anticipation of the issuance
of the Notes,  we entered into $600 million in treasury  locks (the  "Locks") to
reduce  interest rate  sensitivity in pricing of the Notes.  Concurrent with the
issuance  of the  Notes,  the  Locks  were  settled  at a gain,  which  is being
amortized to interest expense over the life of the Notes. The effective interest
rate on the 2005 Notes and the 2008 Notes is 7.6% and 7.8%, respectively.

     Interest  expense on the short-term  borrowings and long-term debt was $218
million,  $291  million and $290 million in 1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.
Interest  expense in 1997  included  the  PepsiCo  interest  allocation  of $188
million.

     The annual  maturities  of  long-term  debt  through  2004 and  thereafter,
excluding capital lease obligations,  are 2000 - $37 million; 2001 - $3 million;
2002 - $1.7  billion;  2003 - $.7 million;  2004 - $352 million and $252 million
thereafter.

Note 12 - Leases

     We  have  non-cancelable  commitments  under  both  capital  and  long-term
operating  leases,  primarily for our  restaurants.  Capital and operating lease
commitments expire at various dates through 2087 and, in many cases, provide for
rent  escalations  and renewal  options.  Most leases  require us to pay related
executory costs, which include property taxes, maintenance and insurance.



     Future minimum  commitments and sublease  receivables under  non-cancelable
leases are set forth below:

                     Commitments               Sublease Receivables
               ------------------------    --------------------------
                                              Direct
                Capital      Operating      Financing      Operating
               ---------    -----------    -----------    -----------
2000           $    17      $    190       $    2         $    13
2001                16           160            2              12
2002                15           142            2              10
2003                15           123            1               9
2004                13           109            1               7
Thereafter         112           617           11              41
               ---------    -----------    -----------    -----------
               $   188      $  1,341       $   19         $    92
               =========    ===========    ===========    ===========

     At year-end  1999,  the present  value of minimum  payments  under  capital
leases  was $97  million,  after  deducting  $91  million  representing  imputed
interest.

The details of rental expense and income are set forth below:

                                   1999       1998       1997
                                  ------    -------    -------
        Rental expense
          Minimum                 $ 263     $  308     $  341
          Contingent                 28         25         30
                                  ------    -------    -------
                                  $ 291     $  333     $  371
                                  ======    =======    =======
        Minimum rental income     $   8     $   18     $   19
                                  ======    =======    =======

Contingent  rentals are based on sales  levels in excess of  stipulated  amounts
contained in the lease agreements.

Note 13 - Financial Instruments

Derivative Instruments
- ----------------------

     Our  policy  prohibits  the  use  of  derivative  instruments  for  trading
purposes,  and we have procedures in place to monitor and control their use. Our
use of derivative  instruments  has included  interest  rate swaps,  collars and
forward rate  agreements.  In addition,  we utilize on a limited  basis  foreign
currency forward  contracts and commodity futures  contracts.  Our interest rate
and  foreign  currency  derivative  contracts  are entered  into with  financial
institutions  and  our  commodity  futures  contracts  are  traded  on  national
exchanges.

     We enter into interest  rate swaps,  collars,  and forward rate  agreements
with the  objective of reducing our exposure to interest  rate risk.  We entered
into interest rate swap and forward rate  agreements to convert a portion of our
variable rate bank debt to fixed rate. Reset dates and the floating rate indices
on the swaps and forward  rate  agreements  match those of the  underlying  bank
debt. Accordingly,  any market risk or opportunity associated with the swaps and
forward rate  agreements is offset by the opposite  market impact on the related
debt.  At December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998, we had  outstanding  interest
rate swaps with notional amounts of $800 million and $1.2 billion, respectively.
Under the  contracts,  we agree with other  parties to  exchange,  at  specified
intervals,   the  difference  between  variable  rate  and  fixed  rate  amounts
calculated  on a  notional  principal  amount.  At both  December  25,  1999 and
December 26, 1998, our average pay rate was 5.9%. Our payables under the related
swaps aggregated $0.4 million and $1.6 million at December 25, 1999 and December
26, 1998, respectively. The swaps mature at various dates through 2001.



     During  1999 and 1998,  we entered  into  interest  rate  collars to reduce
interest rate sensitivity on a portion of our variable rate bank debt.  Interest
rate collars effectively lock in a range of interest rates by establishing a cap
and floor.  Reset dates and the floating index on the collars match those of the
underlying  bank debt.  If interest  rates  remain  within the  collared cap and
floor,  no payments  are made.  If rates rise above the cap level,  we receive a
payment. If rates fall below the floor level, we make a payment. At December 25,
1999, we did not have any  outstanding  interest  rate collars.  At December 26,
1998, we had outstanding  interest rate collars of $700 million, and our average
pay rate was 5.4%.  Under  the  contracts,  we  agreed  with  other  parties  to
exchange,  as required,  the difference between the effective LIBOR rate and the
cap or floor rate if the effective LIBOR rates fall outside the collared range.

     We enter into foreign  currency  exchange  contracts  with the objective of
reducing  our  exposure to earnings  and cash flow  volatility  associated  with
foreign  currency  fluctuations.  In 1999, we entered into forward  contracts to
hedge our exposure related to certain foreign currency receivables. The notional
amount  and  maturity  dates of the  contracts  match  those  of the  underlying
receivables.  Accordingly,  any market risk or opportunity associated with these
contracts is offset by the opposite market impact on the related receivables.

     Our credit  risk from the  interest  rate swap,  collar  and  forward  rate
agreements and foreign  exchange  contracts is dependent both on the movement in
interest and currency rates and possibility of non-payment by counterparties. We
mitigate  credit  risk by  entering  into  these  agreements  with  high-quality
counterparties,  netting swap and forward rate  payments  within  contracts  and
limiting  payments  associated  with the  collars  to  differences  outside  the
collared range.

     Open commodity  future  contracts and deferred gains and losses at year-end
1999 and 1998,  as well as gains and losses  recognized as part of cost of sales
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, were not significant.

Fair Value
- ----------

     Excluding  the  financial  instruments  included  in the table  below,  the
carrying amounts of our other financial instruments approximate fair value.

     The carrying amounts and fair values of TRICON's financial  instruments are
as follows:


     We estimated the fair value of debt,  debt-related  derivative  instruments
and guarantees using market quotes and  calculations  based on market rates. See
Note 2 for  recently  issued  accounting  pronouncements  relating to  financial
instruments.



Note 14 - Pension Plans and Postretirement Medical Benefits

     We  sponsor   noncontributory   defined   benefit  pension  plans  covering
substantially all full-time U.S. salaried employees and certain hourly employees
and noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain international
employees.  In  addition,  we provide  postretirement  health  care  benefits to
eligible  retired  employees  and  their  dependents,  principally  in the  U.S.
Salaried retirees who have 10 years of service and attain age 55 are eligible to
participate in the  postretirement  benefit plans;  since 1994, these plans have
included retiree cost sharing provisions. We base benefits generally on years of
service and compensation or stated amounts for each year of service.

     The components of net periodic benefit cost are set forth below:


     Prior service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the average
remaining service period of employees expected to receive benefits.






The assumptions used to compute the information above are set forth below:


     We have  assumed  the annual  increase  in cost of  postretirement  medical
benefits  was 6.5% in 1999 and will be 6.0% in 2000.  We are  assuming  the rate
will  decrease  0.5% to an ultimate  rate of 5.5% in the year 2001 and remain at
that level  thereafter.  There is a cap on our  medical  liability  for  certain
retirees,  which is expected to be reached between the years 2001-2004;  at that
point our cost for a retiree will not increase.

     Assumed  health  care cost  trend  rates have a  significant  effect on the
amounts reported for our postretirement  health care plans. The effects of a one
percentage  point  increase or  decrease  in the assumed  health care cost trend
rates on postretirement  benefit  obligations are $2.3 million and $2.5 million,
respectively.  The effects of a one percentage point increase or decrease in the
assumed  health  care  cost  trend  rates on total  service  and  interest  cost
components are not significant.

     At the end of 1998, we changed the method for  determining  our pension and
postretirement  medical  benefit  discount  rate to better  reflect  the assumed
investment  strategies  we would most likely use to invest any  short-term  cash
surpluses. See Note 5.

Note 15 - Employee Stock-Based Compensation

     At year-end  1999,  we had four stock  option  plans in effect:  the TRICON
Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  Long Term  Incentive  Plan ("1999  LTIP"),  the 1997
Long-Term  Incentive Plan ("1997  LTIP"),  the TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.
Restaurant  General Manager Stock Option Plan ("YUMBUCKS") and the TRICON Global
Restaurants, Inc. SharePower Plan ("SharePower").

     We may grant options to purchase up to 7.6 million and 22.5 million  shares
of stock under the 1999 LTIP and 1997 LTIP, respectively, at a price equal to or
greater  than the average  market  price of the stock on the date of grant.  New
options we grant can have  varying  vesting  provisions  and  exercise  periods.
Previously  granted  options vest in periods  ranging from immediate to 2006 and
expire ten to fourteen  years after grant.  Potential  awards to  employees  and
non-employee  directors  under the 1999 LTIP include  stock  options,  incentive
stock  options,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted  stock,  stock  units,
restricted  stock units,  performance  shares and performance  units.  Potential
awards to employees and non-employee directors under the 1997 LTIP include stock
options,  incentive stock options,  stock appreciation rights,  restricted stock
and  performance  restricted  stock units. We have issued only stock options and
performance restricted stock units under the 1997 LTIP and have yet to grant any
awards under the 1999 LTIP.

     We may grant  options to purchase  up to 7.5 million  shares of stock under
YUMBUCKS at a price equal to or greater  than the  average  market  price of the
stock on the date of grant.  YUMBUCKS  options  granted have a four year vesting
period and expire ten years after grant.  We do not anticipate  that any further
SharePower  grants will be made  although  options  previously  granted could be
outstanding through 2006.

     At the  Spin-off  Date,  we converted  certain of the  unvested  options to
purchase  PepsiCo  stock that were held by our employees to TRICON stock options
under either the 1997 LTIP or  SharePower.  We converted  the options at amounts
and exercise prices that maintained the amount of unrealized stock  appreciation
that existed



immediately prior to the Spin-off. The vesting dates and exercise periods of the
options were not affected by the  conversion.  Based on their  original  PepsiCo
grant date, our converted  options vest in periods ranging from one to ten years
and expire ten to fifteen years after grant.

     Had we  determined  compensation  cost  for all  TRICON  option  grants  to
employees and  non-employee  directors  consistent with SFAS 123, our net income
(loss) and basic and diluted  earnings  per Common Share would have been reduced
(increased) to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                          1999         1998          1997
                                       ---------    ---------    ----------
Net Income (Loss)
  As reported                          $    627     $    445     $   (111)
  Pro forma                                 597          425         (112)

Basic Earnings per Common Share
  As reported                          $   4.09     $   2.92
  Pro forma                                3.90         2.79

Diluted Earnings per Common Share
  As reported                          $   3.92     $   2.84
  Pro forma                                3.73         2.72

     SFAS 123 pro forma loss per Common Share data for 1997 is not meaningful as
we were not an independent,  publicly owned company with a capital  structure of
our own for the entire year.

     The  effects  of  applying  SFAS 123 in the pro forma  disclosures  are not
likely to be  representative  of the  effects on pro forma net income for future
years because variables such as the number of option grants, exercises and stock
price volatility  included in these  disclosures may not be indicative of future
activity.

     We estimated the fair value of each option grant made during 1999, 1998 and
1997 subsequent to the Spin-off as of the date of grant using the  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:

                                   1999       1998       1997
                                  -------    -------    -------
     Risk-free interest rate        4.9%       5.5%       5.8%
     Expected life (years)          6.0        6.0        6.6
     Expected volatility           29.7%      28.8%      27.5%
     Expected dividend yield        0.0%       0.0%       0.0%




     A  summary  of  the  status  of  all  options   granted  to  employees  and
non-employee  directors as of December 25, 1999,  December 26, 1998 and December
27, 1997,  and changes  during the years then ended is presented  below (tabular
options in thousands):


     The following table summarizes  information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December 25, 1999 (tabular options in thousands):


     In November  1997, we granted two awards of  performance  restricted  stock
units of TRICON's  Common  Stock to our CEO. The awards were made under the 1997
LTIP and may be paid in Common Stock of TRICON or cash at the  discretion of the
Board of Directors.  Payments of the awards of $2.7 million and $3.6 million are
contingent  upon the CEO's  continued  employment  through  January 25, 2001 and
2006,  respectively,  and our  attainment  of certain  pre-established  earnings
thresholds,  as defined.  We expense these awards over the  performance  periods
stipulated  above;  the amount  included in earnings  for both 1999 and 1998 was
$1.3 million and the amount for 1997 was insignificant.



     During 1999, modifications of certain 1997 LTIP and Sharepower options held
by terminated  employees were made. These  modifications  resulted in additional
compensation  expense of $5.0 million in 1999 with a  corresponding  increase in
our Common Stock account.

     Note 16 - Other Compensation and Benefit Programs

     We sponsor two deferred compensation benefit programs, the Executive Income
Deferral Program and the Restaurant  Deferred  Compensation Plan (the "EID Plan"
and the "RDC  Plan,"  respectively)  for  eligible  employees  and  non-employee
directors.  These plans allow  participants to defer receipt of all or a portion
of their annual  salary and  incentive  compensation.  As defined by the benefit
programs,  we  credit  the  amounts  deferred  with  earnings  based on  certain
investment options selected by the participants.

     In late  1997,  we  introduced  a new  investment  option  for the EID Plan
allowing participants to defer certain incentive  compensation into the purchase
of phantom  shares of our Common Stock at a 25% discount from the average market
price at the date of deferral (the "Discount Stock Account").  Participants bear
the risk of  forfeiture  of both the discount  and any amounts  deferred if they
voluntarily  separate from  employment  during the two year vesting  period.  We
expense the intrinsic value of the discount over the vesting period.

     We are phasing in certain  program  changes to the EID Plan during 1999 and
2000. These changes include limiting  investment  options,  primarily to phantom
shares of our Common Stock, and requiring the distribution of investments in the
TRICON Common Stock investment options to be paid in shares of our Common Stock.
Due to these  changes,  in 1998 we agreed to credit to their accounts a one time
premium  on  January  1, 2000 to  participants  with an  account  balance  as of
December 31, 1999. The premium credited totaled approximately $3 million and was
equal to 10% of the  participant's  account  balance as of  December  31,  1999,
excluding  investments in the discounted  TRICON Common Stock investment  option
discussed above and 1999 deferrals.

     Prior to  January  1, 1999,  we  recognized  as  compensation  expense  all
investment  appreciation  or  depreciation  within the EID Plan.  Subsequent  to
January 1, 1999, we no longer recognize as compensation expense the appreciation
or  depreciation,  if any,  attributable  to  investments  in the Discount Stock
Account since  investments  in the Discount Stock Account can only be settled in
shares of our  Common  Stock.  For 1998,  we  expensed  $9  million  related  to
appreciation  attributable to investments in the Discount Stock Account. We also
reduced our  liabilities  by $21 million  related to investments in the Discount
Stock  Account  and  increased  the Common  Stock  Account by the same amount at
January 1, 1999.

     For periods  subsequent to January 1, 2000, we will no longer  recognize as
compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation,  if any,  attributable to
investments  in any  phantom  shares of our  Common  Stock in the EID Plan since
these  investments can only be settled in shares of our Common Stock.  For 1999,
we  recorded a benefit of $3 million  related  to  depreciation  of  investments
impacted by the January 2000 plan amendment.

     Our obligations  under the EID Plan as of the end of 1999 and 1998 were $50
million and $59 million,  respectively. We recognized compensation expense of $6
million  in 1999  and $20  million  in 1998,  including  the  estimated  premium
payment, and $9 million in 1997 for the EID Plan.

     Investment  options in the RDC Plan  consist  of phantom  shares of various
mutual funds and TRICON Common Stock.  During 1998, RDC participants also became
eligible to purchase  phantom shares of our Common Stock under YUMSOP as defined
below. We recognize  compensation  expense for the appreciation or depreciation,
if any,  attributable  to all  investments  in the  RDC  Plan as well as for our
matching  contribution.  Our obligations  under the RDC program as of the end of
1999 and 1998  were $6  million  and $7  million,  respectively.  We  recognized
compensation expense of $1 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997 for the RDC Plan.



     We sponsor a  contributory  plan to provide  retirement  benefits under the
provision of Section  401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code  ("401(k)  Plan") for
eligible full-time U.S. salaried and certain hourly employees.  Participants may
elect to contribute up to 15% of their eligible compensation on a pre-tax basis.
We are  not  required  to make  contributions  to the  Plan.  In  1998,  a Stock
Ownership  Program  ("YUMSOP")  was added to the TRICON Common Stock  investment
option.  Under YUMSOP,  we make a partial  discretionary  matching  contribution
equal to a predetermined  percentage of each  participant's  contribution to the
TRICON Common Stock Fund. We determine our percentage  match at the beginning of
each year based on the immediate prior year  performance of our Core Businesses.
We recognized as  compensation  expense our total  matching  contribution  of $4
million and $1 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Note 17 - Shareholders' Rights Plan

     On July 21, 1998, our Board of Directors  declared a dividend  distribution
of one right for each  share of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of August 3, 1998
(the "Record  Date").  Each right  initially  entitles the registered  holder to
purchase a unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a share (a "Unit") of Series
A Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock, without par value, at a purchase price
of $130 per Unit,  subject to adjustment.  The rights,  which do not have voting
rights, will become exercisable for our Common Stock ten business days following
a public  announcement that a person or group has acquired,  or has commenced or
intends to  commence a tender  offer  for,  15% or more,  or 20% or more if such
person or group  owned 10% or more on the  adoption  date of this  plan,  of our
Common Stock. In the event the rights become  exercisable for Common Stock, each
right will entitle its holder (other than the Acquiring Person as defined in the
Agreement)  to purchase,  at the right's  then-current  exercise  price,  TRICON
Common  Stock having a value of twice the  exercise  price of the right.  In the
event the rights  become  exercisable  for Common  Stock and  thereafter  we are
acquired in a merger or other business combination,  each right will entitle its
holder to purchase,  at the right's then-current exercise price, common stock of
the acquiring company having a value of twice the exercise price of the right.

     We can redeem the rights in their entirety,  prior to becoming exercisable,
at $0.01 per right under certain specified conditions. The rights expire on July
21, 2008,  unless we extend that date or we have  earlier  redeemed or exchanged
the rights as provided in the Agreement.

     This description of the rights is qualified in its entirety by reference to
the Rights Agreement between TRICON and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, dated
as of July 21, 1998 (including the exhibits thereto).

Note 18 - Share Repurchases

     On September 23, 1999, we announced that our Board of Directors  authorized
the  repurchase of up to $350 million of our  outstanding  Common  Stock.  As of
December 25, 1999, we have  purchased 3.3 million  shares for $134 million at an
average price per share of $40.



Note 19 - Income Taxes

     The details of our income tax provision are set forth below:

                                              1999          1998          1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:          Federal                   $   342      $   231      $    106
                  Foreign                        46           55            77
                  State                          39           22            31
                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
                                                427          308           214
                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
Deferred:         Federal                       (18)          (2)          (66)
                  Foreign                        17           10           (59)
                  State                         (15)          (5)          (13)
                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
                                                (16)           3          (138)
                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
                                            $   411      $   311      $     76
                                            =========    =========    ==========

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The 1998 and 1997 deferred  state tax benefits  included net operating loss
carryovers of $1 million that were utilized in 1999.  Taxes payable were reduced
by $14  million,  $3 million  and less than $1  million in 1999,  1998 and 1997,
respectively,  as a result of stock option exercises. In addition,  goodwill and
other  intangibles  were  reduced  by $22  million  in 1999 as a  result  of the
settlement of a disputed claim with the Internal Revenue Service relating to the
deductibility  of the  amortization  of  reacquired  franchise  rights and other
intangibles.  Finally,  the valuation allowance as of the beginning of 1999 that
related to deferred tax assets in certain  foreign  countries was reduced by $13
million as a result of establishing a pattern of profitability.

     Our U.S. and foreign income (loss) before income taxes are set forth below:

                                                1999        1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S.                                        $   782      $   542      $     13
Foreign                                         256          214           (48)
                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
                                            $ 1,038      $   756      $    (35)
                                            =========    =========    ==========

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Our 1999 and 1998  reconciliation  of income taxes  calculated  at the U.S.
federal tax statutory rate to our effective tax rate is set forth below:

                                                           1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. federal statutory rate                                35.0%          35.0%
State income tax, net of federal tax benefit                3.0            2.7

Foreign and U.S. tax effects attributable to foreign
  operations                                                1.7            4.4
Effect of unusual items                                    (0.5)          (0.6)
Adjustments relating to prior years                         0.2           (2.1)
Other, net                                                  0.1            1.6
                                                         ---------    ----------
Effective income tax rate                                  39.5%          41.1%
                                                         =========    ==========



     In 1997, our  reconciliation of income taxes calculated at the U.S. federal
tax statutory  rate was computed on a dollar  basis,  as a  reconciliation  on a
percentage basis is not meaningful due to our pre-tax loss.

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income taxes computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35%    $   (12)
State income tax, net of federal tax benefit                            18
Foreign and U.S. tax effects attributable to foreign operations         24
Effect of unusual items                                                 79
Adjustments relating to prior years                                      3
Other, net                                                             (36)
                                                                 ------------
Income tax provision                                               $    76
                                                                 ============
Effective income tax rate                                          (217.1%)
                                                                 ============

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The details of our 1999 and 1998 deferred tax liabilities  (assets) are set
forth below:

                                                            1999       1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment     $  170      $   243
Other                                                       25            8
                                                        --------    ---------
Gross deferred tax liabilities                          $  195      $   251
                                                        ========    =========
Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards         $ (140)     $  (107)
Employee benefits                                          (91)         (58)
Self-insured casualty claims                               (38)         (46)
Stores held for disposal                                   (12)         (62)
Various liabilities and other                             (178)        (183)
                                                        --------    ---------
Gross deferred tax assets                                 (459)        (456)
Deferred tax assets valuation allowance                    173          133
                                                        --------    ---------
Net deferred tax assets                                   (286)        (323)
                                                        --------    ---------
Net deferred tax (asset) liability                      $  (91)     $   (72)
                                                        ========    =========
Included in:
Deferred income tax assets                              $  (59)     $  (137)
Other assets                                               (51)           -
Accounts payable and other current liabilities              12            -
Deferred income taxes                                        7           65
                                                        --------    ---------
                                                        $  (91)     $   (72)
                                                        ========    =========

     Our  valuation  allowance  related to deferred tax assets  increased by $40
million in 1999  primarily  due to  additions  related to current and prior year
operating  losses and  temporary  differences  in a number of foreign  and state
jurisdictions.

     A determination  of the  unrecognized  deferred tax liability for temporary
differences  related to our investments in foreign  subsidiaries and investments
in foreign unconsolidated  affiliates that are essentially permanent in duration
is not practicable.



     We have available net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards  totaling
$837  million  at  year-end  1999 to reduce  future  tax of TRICON  and  certain
subsidiaries.  The  carryforwards  are  related to a number of foreign and state
jurisdictions.  Of these  carryforwards,  $51  million  expire  in 2000 and $725
million expire at various times between 2001 and 2019. The remaining $61 million
of carryforwards do not expire.

Note 20 - Reportable Operating Segments

     We  are  engaged  principally  in  developing,  operating,  franchising  or
licensing  the  worldwide  KFC,  Pizza  Hut  and  Taco  Bell  concepts.  We also
previously  operated  the  Non-core  Businesses,  all of which were sold in 1997
prior to the Spin-off.

     KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell operate  throughout the U.S. and 84, 87 and 14
countries   and   territories   outside   the  U.S.,   respectively.   Principal
international  markets include Australia,  Canada,  China, Japan and the U.K. At
year-end 1999, we had 10 investments in  unconsolidated  affiliates  outside the
U.S.  which operate KFC and/or Pizza Hut  restaurants,  the most  significant of
which are operating in Japan and the U.K.

     As  disclosed  in Note 2, we  identify  our  operating  segments  based  on
management  responsibility  within the U.S. and  International.  For purposes of
applying SFAS 131, we consider our three U.S. Core Business  operating  segments
to be  similar  and  therefore  have  aggregated  them into a single  reportable
operating segment. Other than the U.S., no individual country represented 10% or
more of our total revenues, profits or assets.





(a)  Results from the United  States in 1997  included  the Non-core  Businesses
     disposed of in 1997.  Excluding  unusual  disposal  charges,  the  Non-core
     Businesses contributed the following:

                                                 ---------
          Revenues                               $   268
          Operating profit                            13
          Interest expense, net                        3
          Income before income taxes                  10

(b)  Includes  equity income of  unconsolidated  affiliates of $22 million,  $18
     million and $8 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
(c)  Includes amounts  allocated by PepsiCo prior to the Spin-off of $37 million
     in 1997 related to general and administrative  expenses and $188 million in
     1997 related to interest expense.
(d)  See Note 5 for a discussion  by  reportable  operating  segment of facility
     actions net gain (loss) and unusual items.
(e)  Includes  investment in unconsolidated  affiliates of $170 million and $159
     million for 1999 and 1998, respectively.
(f)  Includes restricted cash,  capitalized debt issuance costs, advances to our
     voluntary employees' beneficiary  association trust, leasehold improvements
     in certain of our office facilities and non-core assets held for sale.
(g)  Includes PP&E, net and Intangible Assets, net.

     See  Note  5  for  additional  operating  segment  disclosures  related  to
impairment,  suspension of depreciation and amortization and the carrying amount
of assets held for disposal.

     The 1997  financial data we reported  above is materially  consistent  with
restaurant  segment   information   previously  reported  by  PepsiCo.  We  made
adjustments  to these amounts  primarily to remove the impact of the  restaurant
distribution  business previously included by PepsiCo in its restaurant segment,
and to  include  the  investment  in and our  equity  income  of  unconsolidated
affiliates  within the international  segment.  We made



this change to align our reporting  with the way we  internally  review and make
decisions regarding our international business.

Note 21 - Commitments and Contingencies

     Contingent Liabilities
     ----------------------

     We were directly or indirectly  contingently  liable in the amounts of $386
million and $327 million at year-end  1999 and 1998,  respectively,  for certain
lease   assignments  and  guarantees.   In  connection  with  these   contingent
liabilities,  after  the  Spin-off  Date,  we were  required  to  maintain  cash
collateral balances at certain institutions of approximately $30 million,  which
is included in Other Assets in the accompanying  Consolidated  Balance Sheet. At
year-end 1999, $311 million represented  contingent  liabilities to lessors as a
result of assigning our interest in and obligations  under real estate leases as
a  condition  to the  refranchising  of Company  restaurants.  The $311  million
represented  the present value of the minimum  payments of the assigned  leases,
excluding any renewal option periods, discounted at our pre-tax cost of debt. On
a nominal basis, the contingent liability resulting from the assigned leases was
$485 million.  The balance of the  contingent  liabilities  primarily  reflected
guarantees  to  support   financial   arrangements  of  certain   unconsolidated
affiliates and other restaurant franchisees.

     Casualty Loss Programs and Estimates
     ------------------------------------

     To  mitigate  the cost of our  exposures  for  certain  casualty  losses as
defined in Note 5, we make annual  decisions to either  retain the risks of loss
up to  certain  per  occurrence  or  maximum  loss  limits  negotiated  with our
insurance carriers or to fully insure those risks.  Since the Spin-off,  we have
elected to retain the risks subject to insured limitations. In addition, we also
purchased  insurance  in 1998 to limit  the cost of our  retained  risks for the
years 1994 to 1996.

     Effective  August 16, 1999, we made changes to our U.S. and portions of our
International  property and casualty loss programs  which we believe will reduce
our annual  property and casualty costs.  Under the new program,  we bundled our
risks for casualty  losses,  property  losses and various other  insurable risks
into one risk pool with a single large retention limit.  Based on our historical
casualty  loss  experience  over  the  past  ten  years,  we  believe  that  the
combination of the annual risk of loss that we retained and the lower  insurance
premium costs under the new program  should be less than the average total costs
incurred  under the old  program.  However,  since all of these  risks have been
pooled and there are no per  occurrence  limits  for  individual  claims,  it is
possible that we may  experience  increased  volatility in property and casualty
losses on a quarter to quarter  basis.  This would occur if an individual  large
loss is incurred  either  early in a program  year or when the latest  actuarial
projection  of losses for a program year is  significantly  below our  aggregate
loss retention.  A large loss is defined as a loss in excess of $2 million which
was our  predominate  per  occurrence  casualty  loss limit  under our  previous
insurance program.

     Under  both  our old and new  programs,  we have  determined  our  retained
liabilities  for  casualty  losses,  including  reported  and  incurred  but not
reported  claims,  based on  information  provided by our  independent  actuary.
Effective  August 16, 1999,  property  losses are also included in our actuary's
valuation.  Prior to that  date,  property  losses  were  based on our  internal
estimates.

     We have our actuary perform valuations two times a year. However, given the
complexities  of  the  Spin-off,  we had  only  one  1998  valuation,  based  on
information  through June 30,  1998,  which we received  and  recognized  in the
fourth  quarter  of that  year.  In the first and fourth  quarters  of 1999,  we
received a valuation from the actuary based on information  through December 31,
1998 and June 30, 1999,  respectively.  As a result, we have a timing difference
in our actuarial adjustments, from recognizing the entire 1998 adjustment in the
fourth quarter of 1998 to  recognizing  adjustment in both the first quarter and
fourth quarters of 1999. We



expect  that,  beginning  in 2000,  valuations  will be  received  and  required
adjustments will be made in the second and fourth quarters of each year.

     We have recorded favorable adjustments to our casualty loss reserves of $30
million in 1999 ($21  million in the first  quarter and $9 million in the fourth
quarter),  $23 million in 1998 and $18 million in 1997  primarily as a result of
our  independent  actuary's  changes in its estimated  losses.  The changes were
related  to  previously  recorded  casualty  loss  estimates  determined  by our
independent  actuary  for both the  current and prior years in which we retained
some risk of loss. The 1999  adjustments  resulted  primarily from improved loss
trends  related  to our  1998  casualty  losses  across  all  three  of our U.S.
operating companies. We believe the favorable adjustments are a direct result of
our recent  investments in safety and security programs to better manage risk at
the store level.  In  addition,  the  favorable  insurance  adjustments  in 1998
included the benefit of the insurance transaction discussed above.

     We will continue to make adjustments  both based on our actuary's  periodic
valuations  as well as whenever  there are  significant  changes in the expected
costs of settling  large  claims not  contemplated  by the  actuary.  Due to the
inherent volatility of our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates, it is
reasonably  possible that we will experience  changes in estimated  losses which
could be material to our growth in net income in 2000. We believe that, since we
record our reserves  for  casualty  losses at a 75%  confidence  level,  we have
mitigated  the negative  impact of adverse  development  and/or  volatility.  At
December 25, 1999, our reserves for casualty losses were $142 million,  compared
to $154 million at year-end 1998.

     Change of Control Severance Agreements
     --------------------------------------

     In July  1998,  we entered  into  severance  agreements  with  certain  key
executives which are triggered by a termination,  under certain  conditions,  of
the  executive  following a change in control of the Company,  as defined in the
agreements.  Once  triggered,  the affected  executives  would receive twice the
amount of their  annual base salary and their  annual  incentive  in a lump sum,
outplacement  services and a tax gross-up for any excise taxes.  The  agreements
expire  December  31,  2000.  Since  the  timing  of any  payments  under  these
agreements cannot be anticipated, the amounts are not estimable.  However, these
payments,  if made,  could be  substantial.  In connection with the execution of
these  agreements,  the  Compensation  Committee of our Board of  Directors  has
authorized  amendment  of the  deferred and  incentive  compensation  plans and,
following a change in control,  an  establishment  of rabbi trusts which will be
used to provide  payouts under these  deferred  compensation  plans  following a
change in control.

     Wage and Hour Litigation
     ------------------------

     We are subject to various  claims and  contingencies  related to  lawsuits,
taxes,  environmental  and other  matters  arising  out of the normal  course of
business.  Like  some  other  large  retail  employers,  Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
recently  have  been  faced  in a  few  states  with  allegations  of  purported
class-wide wage and hour violations.

     On May 11, 1998, a purported  class action lawsuit against Pizza Hut, Inc.,
and one of its franchisees,  PacPizza,  LLC, entitled  Aguardo,  et al. v. Pizza
Hut, Inc., et al.  ("Aguardo"),  was filed in the Superior Court of the State of
California of the County of San Francisco. The lawsuit was filed by three former
Pizza Hut  restaurant  general  managers  purporting to represent  approximately
1,300 current and former California restaurant general managers of Pizza Hut and
PacPizza.  The lawsuit alleges  violations of state wage and hour laws involving
unpaid  overtime  wages  and  vacation  pay and seeks an  unspecified  amount in
damages. On January 12, 2000, the Court certified a class of approximately 1,300
current and former  restaurant  general  managers.  This lawsuit is in the early
discovery phase.



     On  October  2, 1996,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled Mynaf, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Mynaf"),  was filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California  of the County of Santa Clara.  The lawsuit was
filed  by two  former  restaurant  general  managers  and two  former  assistant
restaurant general managers  purporting to represent all current and former Taco
Bell restaurant  general managers and assistant  restaurant  general managers in
California.  The lawsuit  alleges  violations of  California  wage and hour laws
involving  unpaid overtime wages. The complaint also includes an unfair business
practices claim. The four named plaintiffs claim individual damages ranging from
$10,000 to $100,000 each. On September 17, 1998, the court  certified a class of
approximately 3,000 current and former assistant restaurant general managers and
restaurant general managers.  Taco Bell petitioned the appellate court to review
the trial court's  certification  order. The petition was denied on December 31,
1998.  Taco Bell then filed a petition  for review with the  California  Supreme
Court,  and the petition was subsequently  denied.  Class notices were mailed on
August 31, 1999 to over 3,400 class  members.  Discovery  has  commenced,  and a
trial date has been set for July 10, 2000.

     On August  29,  1997,  a class  action  lawsuit  against  Taco Bell  Corp.,
entitled  Bravo, et al. v. Taco Bell Corp.  ("Bravo"),  was filed in the Circuit
Court of the State of Oregon of the County of  Multnomah.  The lawsuit was filed
by two former Taco Bell shift  managers  purporting  to represent  approximately
17,000  current and former  hourly  employees  statewide.  The  lawsuit  alleges
violations  of state  wage and hour laws,  principally  involving  unpaid  wages
including  overtime,  and  rest  and  meal  period  violations,   and  seeks  an
unspecified amount in damages.  Under Oregon class action procedures,  Taco Bell
was allowed an  opportunity  to "cure" the unpaid wage and hour  allegations  by
opening a claims process to all putative class members prior to certification of
the class.  In this cure process,  Taco Bell has currently paid out less than $1
million.  On January 26,  1999,  the Court  certified a class of all current and
former  shift  managers  and crew  members  who claim one or more of the alleged
violations. The lawsuit is in the discovery and pre-trial motions phase. A trial
date of November 2, 1999 was set. However, on November 1, 1999, the Court issued
a proposed  order  postponing  the trial and  establishing  a  pre-trial  claims
process. The final order regarding the claims process was entered on January 14,
2000.  Taco  Bell  moved  for  certification  of  an  immediate  appeal  of  the
Court-ordered  claims  process  and  requested a stay of the  proceedings.  This
motion was denied on  February  8, 2000,  and Taco Bell  intends to appeal  this
decision to the Supreme Court of Oregon. A Court-approved  notice and claim form
was mailed to approximately 14,500 class members on January 31, 2000.

     We have  provided for the estimated  costs of the Aguardo,  Mynaf and Bravo
litigations, based on a projection of eligible claims (including claims filed to
date, where applicable), the cost of each eligible claim and the estimated legal
fees incurred by plaintiffs.  Although the outcome of these  lawsuits  cannot be
determined  at this time,  we believe the ultimate cost of these cases in excess
of the amounts  already  provided will not be material to our annual  results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     On February 10, 1995, a class action  lawsuit,  entitled  Ryder,  et al. v.
Taco  Bell  Corp.  ("Ryder"),  was filed in the  Superior  Court of the State of
Washington for King County on behalf of approximately  16,000 current and former
Taco Bell employees  claiming unpaid wages resulting from alleged uniform,  rest
and meal  period  violations  and  unpaid  overtime.  In April  1996,  the Court
certified the class for purposes of injunctive relief and a finding on the issue
of  liability.  The trial was held during the first quarter of 1997 and resulted
in a  liability  finding.  In August  1997,  the Court  certified  the class for
purposes  of  damages as well.  Prior to the  damages  phase of the  trial,  the
parties  reached  a  court-approved   settlement  process  in  April  1998.  The
settlement process is substantially  complete,  with less than 50 claims left to
be resolved. We have provided for the estimated cost of settling these remaining
claims.

     Obligations to PepsiCo After Spin-off
     -------------------------------------

     At the Spin-off,  we entered into  separation and other related  agreements
(the  "Separation  Agreement"),  governing  the  Spin-off  transaction  and  our
subsequent   relationship  with  PepsiCo.   These  agreements   provide  certain
indemnities  to PepsiCo.  In  addition,  prior to the  Spin-off,  our U.S.  Core
Businesses each entered into a



multi-year  agreement  with  Pepsi-Cola  Company,  a wholly owned  subsidiary of
PepsiCo,  regarding the purchase of beverage products. Prior to the Spin-off and
PepsiCo's  sale to  AmeriServe  of PFS,  our  primary  U.S.  food  and  supplies
distributor, our Core Businesses signed a multi-year distribution agreement with
PFS. Neither contract is for quantities expected to exceed normal usage.

     The Separation  Agreement  provided for, among other things, our assumption
of all  liabilities  relating to the  restaurant  businesses,  inclusive  of the
Non-core  Businesses,  and our  indemnification of PepsiCo with respect to these
liabilities.  We have included our best  estimates of these  liabilities  in the
accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements.  Subsequent to Spin-off, claims
have been made by certain Non-core  Business  franchisees and a purchaser of one
of the  businesses.  Certain  of these  claims  have  been  settled,  and we are
disputing the validity of the  remaining  claims;  however,  we believe that any
settlement  of  these  claims  at  amounts  in  excess  of  previously  recorded
liabilities  is not likely to have a material  adverse  effect on our results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

     In addition,  we have indemnified PepsiCo for any costs or losses it incurs
with respect to all letters of credit,  guarantees  and  contingent  liabilities
relating to our businesses  under which PepsiCo remains  liable.  As of December
25, 1999, PepsiCo remains liable for approximately $200 million related to these
contingencies. This obligation ends at the time they are released, terminated or
replaced by a qualified letter of credit.  We have not been required to make any
payments under this indemnity.

     Under  the  separation  agreements,  PepsiCo  maintains  full  control  and
absolute  discretion with regard to any combined or consolidated tax filings for
periods  through the  Spin-off  Date.  PepsiCo also  maintains  full control and
absolute discretion regarding any common tax audit issues.  Although PepsiCo has
contractually agreed to, in good faith, use its best efforts to settle all joint
interests in any common audit issue on a basis  consistent  with prior practice,
there can be no assurance that  determinations made by PepsiCo would be the same
as we would reach,  acting on our own behalf.  Through  December 25, 1999, there
have not been any  determinations  made by PepsiCo where we would have reached a
different determination.

     We have  agreed to certain  restrictions  on future  actions to help ensure
that the Spin-off  maintains its tax-free status.  Restrictions  include,  among
other things,  limitations  on our  liquidation,  merger or  consolidation  with
another  company,  certain  issuances and  redemptions of our Common Stock,  our
granting of stock  options and our sale,  refranchising,  distribution  or other
disposition of assets.  If we fail to abide by these  restrictions  or to obtain
waivers  from  PepsiCo  and,  as a result,  the  Spin-off  fails to qualify as a
tax-free  reorganization,  we will be  obligated  to  indemnify  PepsiCo for any
resulting  tax liability  which could be  substantial.  No payments  under these
indemnities  have  been  required.  Additionally,  under  the  terms  of the tax
separation  agreement,  PepsiCo is entitled to the federal  income tax  benefits
related to the exercise after the Spin-off of vested PepsiCo options held by our
employees. We incur the payroll taxes related to the exercise of these options.

Note 22 - Subsequent Event

     We  and  our   franchisees   and   licensees   are  dependent  on  frequent
replenishment  of the  food  ingredients  and  paper  supplies  required  by our
restaurants.  We and a large number of our  franchisees  and licensees are under
multi-year  contracts to use AmeriServe to purchase and make  deliveries of most
of these supplies.

     On January 31, 2000,  AmeriServe  filed for protection  under Chapter 11 of
the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code. We had  approximately $43 million of receivables from
AmeriServe  at December  25,  1999.  While it is possible  that we may recover a
portion  of these  receivables,  the  amount of the  recovery  is not  currently
estimable.  We have  written  off our January  31,  2000  receivable  balance of
approximately   $41  million,   which   represents  the  year-end  balance  less
settlements in the ordinary course of business between December 26, 1999 and the
date of bankruptcy.



     On February 2, 2000, we and another  major  AmeriServe  customer  agreed to
provide a $150 million interim  revolving  credit  facility (the  "Facility") to
AmeriServe.  We initially  committed  to provide up to $100  million  under this
Facility.  However,  we have  reached an  agreement  in  principle to assign $30
million of our commitment to a third party,  reducing our total commitment under
the  Facility  to  $70  million.   The   Facility   represents   post-bankruptcy
"debtor-in-possession"  financing which enjoys  preference  over  pre-bankruptcy
unsecured creditors. The interest rate is prime plus 4%.

     To help ensure that our supply  chain  continues  to remain  open,  we have
begun to purchase  (and take title to) supplies  directly  from  suppliers  (the
"temporary  direct purchase  program") for use in our restaurants as well as for
resale to our franchisees and licensees who previously  purchased  supplies from
AmeriServe.  AmeriServe  has  agreed,  for the same fee in  effect  prior to the
bankruptcy  filing,  to continue to be responsible for distributing the supplies
to us and our  participating  franchisee  and  licensee  restaurants  as well as
providing ordering, inventory, billing and collection services for us.

Note 23 - Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)





See Note 5 for details of 1999  accounting  changes,  facility  actions net gain
(loss) and unusual items.



Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To Our Shareholders:

     We are responsible for the preparation,  integrity and fair presentation of
the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements,  related  notes and other  information
included  in this annual  report.  The  financial  statements  were  prepared in
accordance  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles and include certain
amounts based upon our estimates and assumptions,  as required.  Other financial
information  presented  in the  annual  report  is  derived  from the  financial
statements.

     We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, designed
to  provide  reasonable  assurance  as  to  the  reliability  of  the  financial
statements, as well as to safeguard assets from unauthorized use or disposition.
The system is supported by formal policies and  procedures,  including an active
Code of Conduct  program  intended  to ensure  employees  adhere to the  highest
standards of personal and  professional  integrity.  Our internal audit function
monitors and reports on the adequacy of and compliance with the internal control
system,  and  appropriate  actions  are  taken to  address  significant  control
deficiencies  and  other  opportunities  for  improving  the  system as they are
identified.

     The  financial  statements  have  been  audited  and  reported  on  by  our
independent  auditors,  KPMG LLP,  who were given free  access to all  financial
records  and related  data,  including  minutes of the  meetings of the Board of
Directors   and   Committees   of  the  Board.   We  believe   that   management
representations made to the independent auditors were valid and appropriate.

     The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors,  which is composed solely of
outside directors, provides oversight to our financial reporting process and our
controls to safeguard  assets  through  periodic  meetings with our  independent
auditors,  internal auditors and management.  Both our independent  auditors and
internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee.

     Although no cost-effective internal control system will preclude all errors
and  irregularities,  we believe our  controls as of December  25, 1999  provide
reasonable assurance that our assets are reasonably safeguarded.






/s/ David J. Deno
David J. Deno
Chief Financial Officer



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Report of Independent Auditors
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:

     We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet of TRICON
Global Restaurants, Inc. and Subsidiaries ("TRICON") as of December 25, 1999 and
December 26, 1998, and the related consolidated  statements of operations,  cash
flows and shareholders'  (deficit) equity and  comprehensive  income for each of
the years in the three-year  period ended December 25, 1999. These  consolidated
financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  TRICON's  management.   Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of TRICON as of
December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998,  and the results of its  operations and
its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 25,
1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.








KPMG LLP
Louisville, Kentucky
February 8, 2000, except as to
   Note 11, which is as of
   February 25, 2000









- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Item 9.   Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure.

     None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     Information  regarding  directors is  incorporated  by  reference  from the
Company's definitive proxy statement which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after December 25, 1999.

     Information regarding executive officers of the Company is included in Part
I.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

     Information  regarding executive  compensation is incorporated by reference
from the  Company's  definitive  proxy  statement  which  will be filed with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission  no later than 120 days after  December 25,
1999.  Information  appearing in the sections entitled  "Compensation  Committee
Report on  Executive  Compensation"  and  "Performance  Graph"  contained in the
Company's  definitive  proxy statement shall not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K,  notwithstanding  any general  statement  contained
herein incorporating portions of such proxy statement by reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

     Information  regarding  security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is  incorporated  by reference  from the Company's  definitive  proxy
statement  which will be filed with the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission no
later than 120 days after December 25, 1999.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     Information  regarding certain  relationships  and related  transactions is
incorporated  by reference from the Company's  definitive  proxy statement which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days
after December 25, 1999.



                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)       (1)  Financial Statements:  Consolidated financial statements filed as
               part of this report are listed under Part II, Item 8 of this Form
               10-K.

          (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:  No schedules are required because
               either the required  information is not present or not present in
               amounts  sufficient to require  submission  of the  schedule,  or
               because the  information  required  is included in the  financial
               statements  or the related  notes thereto filed as a part of this
               Form 10-K.

          (3)  Exhibits:  The  exhibits  listed  in the  accompanying  Index  to
               Exhibits  are  filed  as part of this  Form  10-K.  The  Index to
               Exhibits  specifically  identifies  each  management  contract or
               compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form
               10-K.

(b)       Reports on Form 8-K

          (1)  We filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  September  23, 1999
               attaching a press release dated  September 23, 1999  announcing a
               $350  million  Share  Repurchase  Program and  anticipated  third
               quarter and full year operating and financial trends.

          (2)  We filed a  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  October  12,  1999
               attaching our third quarter 1999 earnings  release on October 12,
               1999.

          (3)  We filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  November  15,  1999
               attaching a press release dated November 15, 1999  announcing the
               appointment of a new Chief Executive  Officer,  effective January
               1, 2000, and a Chief Financial  Officer.  In addition,  the press
               release  reaffirmed our anticipated 1999 earnings goal and raised
               our 2000 earnings goal.




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this Form 10-K annual
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 6, 2000

                                   TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.


                                   By: /s/ Andrall E. Pearson
                                       -----------------------------------------



     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
Form 10-K annual  report has been signed by the  following  persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                               Title                        Date
- ---------                               -----                        ----


/s/ Andrall E. Pearson      Chairman of the Board             March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Andrall E. Pearson

/s/ David C. Novak          Vice Chairman of the Board,       March 6, 2000
- -----------------------     Chief Executive Officer and
David C. Novak              President (principal executive
                            officer)

/s/ David J. Deno           Chief Financial                   March 6, 2000
- -----------------------     Officer (principal
David J. Deno               financial officer)


/s/ Robert L. Carleton      Senior Vice President             March 6, 2000
- -----------------------     and Controller
Robert L. Carleton          (principal accounting
                            officer)

/s/ D. Ronald Daniel        Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
D. Ronald Daniel


/s/ James Dimon             Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
James Dimon

/s/ Massimo Ferragamo       Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Massimo Ferragamo




Signature                            Title                        Date
- ---------                            -----                        ----

/s/ Robert Holland, Jr.     Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Robert Holland, Jr.

/s/ Sidney Kohl             Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Sidney Kohl


/s/ Kenneth G. Langone      Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Kenneth G. Langone


/s/ Jackie Trujillo         Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Jackie Trujillo


/s/ Robert J. Ulrich        Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Robert J. Ulrich


/s/ Jeanette S. Wagner      Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
Jeanette S. Wagner


/s/ John L. Weinberg        Director                          March 6, 2000
- -----------------------
John L. Weinberg





                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
                                  Exhibit Index
                                    (Item 14)


Exhibit
Number                              Description of Exhibits

3.1       Restated Articles of Incorporation of Tricon.

3.2       Amended and restated Bylaws of Tricon.

4.1*      Indenture,  dated as of May 1,  1998,  between  Tricon  and The  First
          National  Bank of Chicago,  pertaining to 7.45% Senior Notes and 7.65%
          Senior Notes due May 15, 2005 and May 15, 2008, respectively, which is
          incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to Tricon's  Report
          on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 13, 1998.

4.2       Rights  Agreement,  dated  as of July 21,  1998,  between  Tricon  and
          BankBoston,  N.A.,  which is  incorporated  herein by  reference  from
          Exhibit 4.01 to Tricon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended June 13, 1998.

10.1      Separation Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon. effective as of
          August 26, 1997, and the First  Amendment  thereto dated as of October
          6, 1997,  which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.1
          to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year  ended
          December 27, 1997.

10.2      Tax Separation Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon effective as
          of August 26, 1997,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference  from
          Exhibit  10.2 to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 27, 1997.

10.3      Employee Programs Agreement between PepsiCo, Inc. and Tricon effective
          as of August 26, 1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference from
          Exhibit  10.3 to  Tricon's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
          year ended December 27, 1997.

10.4      Telecommunications,  Software and Computing Services Agreement between
          PepsiCo,  Inc. and Tricon  effective  as of August 26, 1997,  which is
          incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to Tricon's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.5      Amended  and  Restated  Sales  and  Distribution   Agreement   between
          AmeriServe Food Distribution,  Inc., Tricon,  Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and
          KFC, effective as of November 1, 1998.

10.6      Credit Agreement dated as of October 2, 1997 among Tricon, the lenders
          party thereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Administrative  Agent, and
          Chase Manhattan Bank as Issuing Bank, which is incorporated  herein by
          reference  from Exhibit 10 to Tricon's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q
          for the quarter ended September 6, 1997, as amended by Amendment No. 1
          hereto which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to
          TRICON's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 20,
          1999, as amended by Amendment No. 2 hereto (as filed herewith).



10.7+     Tricon Director  Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as effective October 7,
          1997,  which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.7 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.8+     Tricon 1997 Long Term  Incentive  Plan, as effective  October 7, 1997,
          which  is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.8 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997

10.9+     Tricon Executive Incentive  Compensation Plan, as effective January 1,
          1999, as amended (as filed herewith).

10.10+    Tricon  Executive  Income Deferral  Program,  as effective  October 7,
          1997, which is incorporated  herein by reference from Exhibit 10.11 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.13+    Tricon Pension  Equalization Plan, as effective October 7, 1997, which
          is  incorporated  herein by reference  from Exhibit  10.14 to Tricon's
          Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  27,
          1997.

10.14+    Employment Agreement between Tricon and Andrall E. Pearson dated as of
          June 25, 1997, and subsequently  amended as of October 20, 1997, which
          is  incorporated  herein by reference  from Exhibit  10.15 to Tricon's
          Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year ended  December  27,
          1997.

10.15+    Terms of Employment  Agreement  between Tricon and Robert L. Carleton,
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.16 to
          Tricon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
          27, 1997.

10.16     Form of Directors'  Indemnification  Agreement,  which is incorporated
          herein by reference  from Exhibit  10.17 to Tricon's  Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1997.

10.17     Form of  Severance  Agreement  (in the event of a change in  control),
          which is  incorporated  herein  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.18 to
          Tricon's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          5, 1998.

10.18+    Tricon 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan, as effective May 20,
          1999 (as filed herewith).

10.19+    Employment  Agreement between Tricon and Christian L. Campbell,  dated
          as of September  3, 1997,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference
          from Exhibit  10.19 to Tricon's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal
          year ended December 26, 1998.

10.20     Tricon Purchasing Coop Agreement,  dated as of March 1, 1999,  between
          Tricon and the Unified  FoodService  Purchasing  Coop,  LLC,  which is
          incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 10.20 to Tricon's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 26, 1998.

12.1      Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

21.1      Active Subsidiaries of Tricon.



23.1      Consent of KPMG LLP.

27.1      Financial Data Schedule.

- -----------------------

*     Neither Tricon nor any of its subsidiaries is party to any other long-term
      debt instrument under which securities authorized exceed 10 percent of the
      total  assets of Tricon  and its  subsidiaries  on a  consolidated  basis.
      Copies of  instruments  with respect to long-term  debt of lesser  amounts
      will be furnished to the Commission upon request.

+     Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan.




                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.6



                         AMENDMENT  dated as of February 25, 2000, to the Credit
                    Agreement  dated as of  October 2,  1997,  as  amended  (the
                    "Credit Agreement"),  among TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC.
                    (the "Borrower"),  the Lenders party thereto,  and THE CHASE
                    MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative
                    Agent"). Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall
                    have the  meanings  assigned  to such  terms  in the  Credit
                    Agreement.


               WHEREAS  the  Borrower  has  requested  the  Lenders to amend the
          Credit Agreement as set forth herein; and

               WHEREAS  the  undersigned  Lenders  are  willing to approve  such
          amendment, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein;

               NOW,  THEREFORE,   in  consideration  of  the  mutual  agreements
          contained in this Amendment and other good and valuable consideration,
          the  sufficiency  and  receipt of which are hereby  acknowledged,  the
          parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

               SECTION 1.  Amendments.  (a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement
          is hereby amended,  as of the Amendment  Effective Date (as defined in
          Section 4 below), by deleting clause (e) of the definition of the term
          "Permitted   Investments"   and   substituting  in  lieu  thereof  the
          following:

               (e) investments in money market funds (i) with a policy to invest
          substantially all their assets in one or more investments described in
          the  foregoing  items (a), (b), (c) and (d) or (ii) having the highest
          credit rating obtainable from S&P or from Moody's; and

          (b) Section 6.02 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended,  as of the
     Amendment  Effective  Date,  by (i)  deleting  the word "and" at the end of
     clause  (g)  thereof,  (ii)  deleting  the  period at the end of clause (h)
     thereof and  substituting  a  semi-colon  in lieu  thereof and (iii) adding
     following clause (h) thereof the following":

               (i) Liens on inventory  and accounts  receivable  of the Borrower
          created pursuant to the Interim  Stipulation and Order authorizing the
          Use of Cash Collateral and Granting Replacement Liens made February 2,
          2000  in the  United  States  Bankruptcy  Court  for the  District  of
          Delaware (the "Court") in re:



          Ameriserve Food  Distribution,  Inc., et al, Debtors,  Chapter 11 Case
          No.  00-0358,  as  such  order  may be  amended  from  time to time or
          evidenced by any documents  entered into to effect such Liens with the
          approval of the Court or replaced by any similar  arrangement  ordered
          by  the  Court  so  long  as the  interests  of the  Lenders  are  not
          materially  adversely  affected by any such  amendment,  documents  or
          replacement orders;  provided that in no event shall the book value of
          all  inventory  and  accounts  receivable  subject to such Lien exceed
          $320,000,000; and

               (j) Liens on marketable  securities or operating  assets owned by
          the  Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries  securing  Indebtedness  for
          borrowed  money  in  an  aggregate   principal  amount  not  exceeding
          $100,000,000;  provided that all the Net Proceeds of such Indebtedness
          are applied to prepay Term  Borrowings  within 10 Business  Days after
          such Net Proceeds are received (which  prepayment shall be treated for
          all purposes as a mandatory  prepayment under Section 2.11(b),  except
          such prepayment  shall not be subject to the limitations on the amount
          of mandatory prepayments specified therein).

          (c) Section 6.04 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended,  as of the
     Amendment Effective Date, by adding at the end thereof the following:

          Notwithstanding  the limitations set forth in the foregoing  provisos,
          the Borrower may form a wholly owned Foreign  Subsidiary  organized in
          the Cayman Islands (the "Foreign IP Subsidiary")  and the Borrower and
          its Domestic  Subsidiaries  may transfer to the Foreign IP  Subsidiary
          trademarks or other  intellectual  property used outside of the United
          States  ("Foreign  IP"),  and any such  transfer  of Foreign IP to the
          Foreign  IP  Subsidiary  shall not be treated  as an  investment  in a
          Foreign  Subsidiary  for purposes of determining  compliance  with the
          Foreign  Exposure  Limit;  provided that (i) the Foreign IP Subsidiary
          shall become a Guarantor  under the Guarantee  Agreement  prior to any
          such   transfer  to  it  of  Foreign  IP  and  shall  deliver  to  the
          Administrative  Agent such legal  opinions  and other  evidence as the
          Administrative   Agent  shall   reasonably   request   regarding   the
          authorization and validity thereof,  and (ii) any subsequent  transfer
          of any Foreign IP by the Foreign IP Subsidiary to a Foreign Subsidiary
          shall be subject to the Foreign Exposure Limit.



          (d) Section 6.06 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended,  as of the
     Amendment  Effective  Date, by adding in clause (e) thereof,  following the
     words "the Borrower", the words "and its Subsidiaries".

               SECTION  2.   Representations   and   Warranties.   The  Borrower
          represents and warrants to each of the Lenders,  on and as of the date
          hereof after giving effect to this Amendment, that:

               (a) The  representations  and  warranties  of each Loan Party set
          forth in each Loan Document are true and correct on and as of the date
          hereof  except  to  the  extent  that  any  such  representations  and
          warranties  expressly relate to an earlier date in which case any such
          representations  and warranties shall be true and correct at and as of
          such earlier date.

               (b) No Default has occurred and is continuing.

               SECTION 3.  Applicable  Law. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN
          ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

               SECTION 4.  Conditions of  Effectiveness.  This  Amendment  shall
          become effective only when (a) the Administrative Agent or its counsel
          shall have  received  duly  executed  counterparts  of this  Amendment
          which,  when taken  together,  bear the signatures of the Borrower and
          the  Required  Lenders  (the date on which this  Amendment  so becomes
          effective being herein called the "Amendment  Effective Date") and (b)
          the  Administrative  Agent shall have received for the account of each
          Lender  executing  this  Amendment on or prior to February 25, 2000, a
          lender  fee  equal  to 5 basis  points  multiplied  by the sum of such
          Lender's Revolving  Commitment and outstanding Term Loans.  Unless and
          until this Amendment  becomes  effective,  the Credit  Agreement shall
          continue in full force and effect in  accordance  with the  provisions
          thereof and the rights and  obligations  of the parties  thereto shall
          not be affected hereby.

               SECTION 5. Amended Credit Agreement.  Any reference in the Credit
          Agreement,  or in any documents or instruments  required thereunder or
          annexes or schedules thereto,  referring to the Credit Agreement shall
          be  deemed  to  refer  to the  Credit  Agreement  as  amended  by this
          Amendment.  As used in the Credit  Agreement,  the terms  "Agreement",
          "this  Agreement",  "herein",  "hereinafter",  "hereto",  "hereof" and
          words of similar import shall,  unless the context otherwise requires,
          mean the Credit  Agreement  as


          amended  by this  Amendment.  Except  as  expressly  modified  by this
          Amendment, the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement are hereby
          confirmed  and ratified in all respects and shall remain in full force
          and effect.

               SECTION 6. Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in two or
          more counterparts,  each of which shall constitute an original but all
          of which  when  taken  together  shall  constitute  but one  contract.
          Delivery of an executed  counterpart  of a signature page by facsimile
          transmission  shall be  effective  as delivery of a manually  executed
          counterpart of this Amendment.

               SECTION  7.  Expenses.  The  Borrower  agrees  to  reimburse  the
          Administrative  Agent for its  reasonable  out-of-pocket  expenses  in
          connection with this Amendment, including the reasonable fees, charges
          and  disbursements  of  Cravath,  Swaine  &  Moore,  counsel  for  the
          Administrative Agent.

               IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment
          to be duly executed by their respective  authorized officers as of the
          day and year first written above.


                                     TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.,

                                        by  /s/ David Deno   MM
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name:  DAVID DENO
                                            Title: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER


                                     THE CHASE MANHATTAN BANK, individually and
                                       as Administrative Agent and Swingline
                                       Lender,

                                        by
                                          --------------------------------------
                                            Name:
                                            Title:


                                     CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE, as Issuing
                                       Agent,

                                        by /s/  Michael P. Handago
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                            Name:  MICHAEL P. HANDAGO
                                            Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH
                                  INCORPORATED
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Neil Brisson
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  NEIL BRISSON
                                        Title: DIRECTOR


               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              CHANG HWA COMMERCIAL BANK. LTD. NEW YORK BRANCH
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Wan Tu Yeh
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  WAN TU YEH
                                        Title: VP & GENERAL MANAGER




               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              National City Bank of Kentucky
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  J. Page Walker
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                         Name:  J. Page Walker
                                         Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              NORDDEUTSCHE LANDESBANK GIROZENTRALE
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Stephanie Finnen
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Stephanie Finnen
                                        Title: VP


                                    by  /s/  Stephen K. Hunter
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Stephen K. Hunter
                                        Title: SVP



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Chiao Tung Bank Co., Ltd, New York Agency
                                 -----------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Kuang Si Shiu
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Kuang Si Shiu
                                        Title: SVP & GM



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              BANCA DI ROMA
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Christopher Strike
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Christopher Strike
                                        Title: Asst. Vice President


                                    by  /s/  Alessandro Paoli
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Alessandro Paoli
                                        Title: Asst. Treasurer


               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              FIFTH THIRD BANK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Anthony M. Buehler
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  ANTHONY M. BUEHLER
                                        Title: Assistant Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Erste Bank
                                 -----------------------------------------------


                                    by  /s/  David Manheim
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  David Manheim
                                        Title: Assistant Vice President
                                               Erste Bank New York Branch


                                    by  /s/ John S. Runnion
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  JOHN S. RUNNION
                                        Title: FIRST VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Toyo Trust and Banking Company, Limited
                                 ----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Shinya Kameda
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Shinya KAMEDA
                                        Title: Assistant General Manager



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Tokai Bank, Ltd.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Shinichi Nakatani
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Shinichi Nakatani
                                        Title: Assistant General Manager



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              National Bank of Kuwait  SAK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Robert J. McNeill
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Robert J. McNeill
                                        Title: Executive Manager


                                    by  /s/  Jeffrey J. Ganter
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Jeffrey J. Ganter
                                        Title: Senior Credit Officer




               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corporation
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Toshihiro Hayashi
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Toshihiro Hayashi
                                        Title: Senior Vice President




               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Andreas Schroeter
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  ANDREAS SCHROETER
                                        Title: DIRECTOR


                                    by  /s/  Walter T. Duffy III
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Walter T. Duffy III
                                        Title: Vice President




               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Credit Industrial et. Commercial
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                    by  /s/  Brian O'Leary
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Brian O'Leary
                                        Title: Vice President


                                    by  /s/  Marcus Edward
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name: Marcus Edward
                                        Title: Vice President




               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              CITIBANK, N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------


                                    by  /s/  Thomas F. Bruscino
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  THOMAS F. BRUSCINO
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Elizabeth Fischer
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  ELIZABETH FISCHER
                                        Title: AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Bank of Louisville
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Roy L. Johnson, Jr.
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Roy L. Johnson, Jr.
                                        Title: Senior Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  David W. Kratovil
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  David W. Kratovil
                                        Title: Director


                                    by  /s/  Andrea Shkane
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Andrea Shkane
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              STB Delaware Funding Trust I
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Robert D. Brown
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  ROBERT D. BROWN
                                        Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              DLJ CAPITAL FUNDING, INC.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Thomas C. Hendrick
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Thomas C. Hendrick
                                        Title: Managing Director



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Le Bank of New York
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Thomas McCrohan
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name: THOMAS C. McCROHAN
                                        Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              THE SUMITOMO BANK, LIMITED
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Edward D. Henderson, Jr.
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Edward D. Henderson, Jr.
                                        Title: Senior Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance Company
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Frederick B. Howard
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Frederick B. Howard
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Bank of Scotland
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Annie Glynn
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name: ANNIE GLYNN
                                        Title: SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              NATEXIS BANQUE
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Jordan Sadler
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  JORDAN SADLER
                                        Title: ASSISTANT VICE PRESIDENT


                                    by  /s/  Gary Kania
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  GARY KANIA
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  John M. Crawford
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  JOHN M. CRAWFORD
                                        Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Summit Bank
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Catherine E. Garrity
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Catherine E. Garrity
                                        Title: VP



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              City National Bank
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Patrick M. Cassidy
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Patrick M. Cassidy
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Northern Trust Company
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Mark R. Moteuelle
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Mark R. Motuelle
                                        Title: Second Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Mercantile Bank National Association
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Kirk A. Porter
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  KIRK A. PORTER
                                        Title: SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              MORGAN GUARANTY TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  R. David Stone
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  R. David Stone
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Comerica Bank
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Kathleen M. Kosperek
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  KATHLEEN M. KOSPEREK
                                        Title: ACCOUNT Officer



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Ltd.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Bertram H. Tang
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Bertram H. Tang
                                        Title: Vice President & Group Leader



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              PNC Bank, N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Ralph M. Bowman
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  RALPH M. BOWMAN
                                        Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              BAYERISCHE HYPO- UND VEREINSBANK AG NEW YORK
                                 BRANCH
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Marianne Weinzinger
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Marianne Weinzinger
                                        Title: Director


                                    by  /s/  Pamela J. Gillons
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  PAMELA J. GILLONS
                                        Title: ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                 By:  NatWest Capital Markets Limited, its Agent
                                 By:  Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc., its Agent

                                    by  /s/  Richard J. Jacoby
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                         Name:  Richard J. Jacoby
                                         Title: Assistant Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent

                                               SENIOR DEBT PORTFOLIO
Name of Institution              Boston Management and Research as Investment
                                 Advisor
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Barbara Campbell
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Bank of Nova Scotia
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  John Campbell
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  John Campbell
                                        Title: Managing Director and Unit Head



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Sanwa Bank, Limited
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Christopher DiCarlo
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Christopher DiCarlo
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Banque Nationale de Paris
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Arnaud Collin du Bocage
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Arnaud Collin du Bocage
                                        Title: Executive Vice President  and
                                               General Manager



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Barclays Bank PLC
                                 -----------------------------------------------


                                    by  /s/  Paul Kavanagh
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  PAUL KAVANAGH
                                        Title: DIRECTOR



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              First Security Bank, N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Troy S. Akagi
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Troy S. Akagi
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  J. Kenneth Biegen
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  J. KENNETH BIEGEN
                                        Title: SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              The Fuji Bank, Limited
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Raymond Ventura
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  RAYMOND VENTURA
                                        Title: Vice President & Manager



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Sun Trust Bank, Inc. (formerly Crestar)
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Charles J. Johnson
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Charles J. Johnson
                                        Title: Director



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Bank One, Indiana N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------


                                    by  /s/  Randall K. Stephens
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Randall K. Stephens
                                        Title: Managing Director



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              SPS TRADES
                                 -----------------------------------------------


                                    by  /s/  John F. Gehebe
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  JOHN F. GEHEBE
                                        Title: VICE PRESIDENT



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPTIAL CORPORATION
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  William E. Magee
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  WILLIAM E. MAGEE
                                        Title: DULY AUTHORIZED SIGNATORY



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Union Bank of California, N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  J. Scott Jessup
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  J. Scott Jessup
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI TRUST CO.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  J. Jeffers
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  J. JEFFERS
                                        Title: SVP & Manager



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              FLEET NATIONAL BANK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Steven Kaelin
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Steven Kaelin
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              BANK OF MONTREAL
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              WACHOVIA
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              FIRSTAR BANK, N.A.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/  Toby B. Rau
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:  Toby B. Rau
                                        Title: Vice President



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              SOCIETE GENERALE
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              HIBERNIA NATIONAL BANK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Bear Sterns Investment Products, Inc.
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              STANDARD CHARTERED BANK
                                 -----------------------------------------------

                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:



               SIGNATURE  PAGE TO THE  AMENDMENT  DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 25, 2000,
               AMONG TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS,  INC., THE LENDERS AND THE CHASE
               MANHATTAN BANK, as Administrative Agent


Name of Institution              Credit Agricole Indosuez
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                    by  /s/
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                        Title:




                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.9

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
                      EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN

                                    SECTION 1
                                     GENERAL

1.1.  PURPOSE.  The purpose of the Tricon  Global  Restaurants,  Inc.  Executive
Incentive  Plan (the  "Plan")  is to  promote  the  interests  of Tricon  Global
Restaurants,  Inc.  (the  "Company" or  "Tricon")  and its  stockholders  by (i)
motivating executives,  by means of performance-related  incentives,  to achieve
financial  goals;  (ii)  attracting  and  retaining  executives  of  outstanding
ability;  (iii) strengthening the Company's capability to develop,  maintain and
direct a competent executive staff; (iv) providing annual incentive compensation
opportunities which are competitive with those of other major corporations;  and
(v) enabling  executives to participate  in the growth and financial  success of
the Company.

1.2.  PARTICIPATION.  Subject  to the terms  and  conditions  of the  Plan,  the
Committee  shall  determine  and  designate,  from time to time,  from among the
Eligible  Employees,  those persons who will be granted one or more Awards under
the Plan, and thereby become "Participants" in the Plan.

1.3. DEFINITIONS. Capitalized terms in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in
the Plan (including the definition provisions of Section 7 of the Plan).

                                    SECTION 2
                                     AWARDS

2.1. GRANT OF AWARDS.

     (a) For any Performance Period, the Committee shall determine and designate
those  Eligible  Employees (if any) who shall be granted  Awards for the period,
and shall establish,  with respect to each Award, (i) a Target Amount, expressed
as a percentage of the recipient's base salary for such Performance Period; (ii)
the performance  goal(s) for the  Performance  Period with respect to the Award;
(iii) the payments to be earned with respect to various levels of achievement of
the performance  goal(s) for the Performance  Period; and (iv) whether the Award
is intended to satisfy the requirements for Performance-Based  Compensation. For
any Performance Period for which Awards are granted,  the Committee shall create
the Award Schedule,  and the  determinations  required for Awards intended to be
Performance-Compensation shall be made at the time necessary to comply with such
requirements. The grant of an Award to any Eligible Employee for any Performance
Period  shall not bestow  upon such  Eligible  Employee  the right to receive an
Award for any other Performance Period.

     (b) The performance  goal(s) to be established with respect to the grant of
any  Awards  shall be based upon on any one or more of the  following  measures:
cash flow,  earnings per share,  return on operating  assets,  return on equity,
operating profit, net income,  revenue growth,  shareholder return, gross margin
management,  market share  improvement,  market value added,  or economic  value
added. Such goals may be particular to a line of business,  Subsidiary, or other
unit or may be based on the Company generally.

2.2. DETERMINATION OF AWARD AMOUNT.

     Payment  with  respect to Awards  for each  Participant  for a  Performance
Period shall be determined in accordance with the Award Schedule  established by
the Committee, subject to the following:

     (a) Prior to the payment with respect to any Award  designated  as intended
to satisfy the requirements for  Performance-Based  Compensation,  the Committee
shall certify the attainment of the  performance  goal(s) and any other material
terms.


     (b) In the sole discretion of the Committee, the Award for each Participant
may be limited to the  Participant's  Target  Amount  multiplied  by the Percent
Attainment  (determined  in  accordance  with the  applicable  Award  Schedule),
subject to the following:

          (i) Subject to Section 3 and the  provisions of this  subsection  2.2,
     the Committee may adjust such Award for individual performance on the basis
     of such quantitative and qualitative  performance  measures and evaluations
     as it deems  appropriate.  The  Committee may make such  adjustments  as it
     deems  appropriate in the case of any  Participant  whose position with the
     Company has changed during the applicable Performance Period.

          (ii) The Committee  shall have the  discretion  to adjust  performance
     goals and the methodology  used to measure the  determination of the degree
     of  attainment  of such  goals;  provided,  however,  that,  to the  extent
     required by the requirements applicable to Performance-Based  Compensation,
     any  Award   designated  as  intended  to  satisfy  the   requirements  for
     Performance-Based Compensation may not be adjusted under this paragraph (b)
     or otherwise in a manner that increases the value of such Award.  Except as
     otherwise  provided  by the  Committee,  the  Committee  shall  retain  the
     discretion  to adjust such Awards in a manner that does not  increase  such
     Awards.

     (c)  Notwithstanding  any other  provision of the Plan,  in no event will a
Participant  become  eligible for payment for an Award for any calendar  year in
excess of $4,000,000.

     (d) No segregation of any moneys or the creation of any trust or the making
of any special  deposit shall be required in connection  with any Awards made or
to be made under the Plan.

2.3.  PAYMENT OF AWARDS.  The amount  earned with  respect to any Award shall be
paid in cash at such time as is determined by the Committee. If a Participant to
whom an Award has been made dies prior to the payment of the Award, such payment
shall be delivered to the  Participant's  legal  representative or to such other
person or persons as shall be  determined  by the  Committee.  The Company shall
have the  right to  deduct  from all  amounts  payable  under the Plan any taxes
required by law to be withheld with respect thereto; provided,  however, that to
the extent provided by the Committee, any payment under the Plan may be deferred
and to the extent deferred,  may be credited with an interest or earnings factor
as determined by the Committee.

2.4.  TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.  Except to the extent otherwise provided by the
Committee,  if a  Participant's  Date of  Termination  with respect to any Award
occurs  prior to the last day of the  Performance  Period for the  Award,  then,
except in the case of death,  disability  or normal  retirement  (determined  in
accordance  with the  qualified  retirement  plans of the  Company) or except as
provided in Section 3, the Participant shall forfeit the Award.

                                    SECTION 3
                                CHANGE IN CONTROL

     BENEFITS ON CHANGE IN CONTROL.

     Within ten (10)  business  days  following  the  occurrence  of a Change in
Control (as defined in the Tricon Global  Restaurants,  Inc. Long Term Incentive
Plan),  each individual who has been granted an annual  incentive award pursuant
to the Plan  shall be paid an  amount  equal  to (I) to the  greater  of (A) the
participant's  target award for the period in which the Change in Control occurs
and (B) the award the  participant  would have earned for such period,  assuming
continued  achievement of the relevant performance goals at the rate achieved as
of the  date  of the  Change  in  Control,  multiplied  by (II) a  fraction  the
numerator  of which is the number of days in the  performance  period which have
elapsed as of the Change in Control,  and the denominator of which is the number
of days in the performance  period.  Any former  participant in the Plan who was
granted an annual  incentive  award pursuant to the Plan for the period in which
the  Change  in  Control  occurs  and  whose  employment  with the  Company  was
involuntarily  terminated  (other than for cause)  during a Potential  Change in
Control (as defined in the Tricon Global


Restaurants,  Inc. Long Term  Incentive  Plan) and within one year preceding the
occurrence  of a Change in  Control  shall  likewise  be paid the amount of such
annual   incentive  award  as  if  Tricon  had  fully  achieved  the  applicable
performance  target(s) for the performance period in which the Change in Control
occurs.

                                    SECTION 4
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

4.1.  TRANSFERABILITY.  Any payment to which a Participant may be entitled under
the Plan shall be free from the control or  interference of any creditor of such
Participant   and  shall  not  be  subject  to  attachment  or   susceptible  of
anticipation  or  alienation.  The  interest  of  a  Participant  shall  not  be
transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.

4.2. NO RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE;  EMPLOYMENT.  Neither the adoption of the Plan nor
any action of the  Committee  shall be deemed to give any Eligible  Employee any
right to be  designated  as a  Participant  under  the  Plan.  Further,  nothing
contained  in the Plan,  nor any  action by the  Committee  or any other  person
hereunder,  shall be deemed to confer upon any  Eligible  Employee  any right of
continued employment with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate or to limit
or diminish in any way the right of the Company or any  Subsidiary  or Affiliate
to terminate his or her employment at any time with or without cause.

4.3.  NONEXCLUSIVITY  OF THE PLAN.  This Plan is not  intended  to and shall not
preclude  the Board from  adopting,  continuing,  amending or  terminating  such
additional  compensation  arrangements  as it deems  desirable for  Participants
under this Plan, including, without limitation, any thrift, savings, investment,
stock purchase, stock option, profit sharing, pension, retirement,  insurance or
other incentive plan.

                                    SECTION 5
                                    COMMITTEE

5.1.  ADMINISTRATION.  The  authority  to control and manage the  operation  and
administration  of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the  "Committee") in
accordance  with this  subsection  5.1. The  Committee  shall be selected by the
Board,  and shall  consist  solely of two or more  non-employee  members  of the
Board.

5.2. POWERS OF COMMITTEE.  The Committee's  administration  of the Plan shall be
subject to the following:

     (a) Subject to the  provisions  of the Plan,  the  Committee  will have the
authority  and  discretion  to select from among the  Eligible  Employees  those
persons who shall receive Awards, to determine the time or times of payment with
respect to the Awards, to establish the terms,  conditions,  performance  goals,
restrictions,  and  other  provisions  of  such  Awards,  and  (subject  to  the
restrictions imposed by Section 6) to cancel or suspend Awards.

     (b) The Committee  will have the authority and  discretion to interpret the
Plan, to establish, amend, and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the
Plan,  to determine  the terms and  provisions of any Award made pursuant to the
Plan,  and to make all other  determinations  that may be necessary or advisable
for the administration of the Plan.

     (c) Any  interpretation  of the Plan by the Committee and any decision made
by it under the Plan is final and binding on all persons.

     (d) In  controlling  and managing the operation and  administration  of the
Plan, the Committee  shall take action in a manner that conforms to the articles
and by-laws of the Company, and applicable state corporate law.

5.3. DELEGATION BY COMMITTEE. Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law,
the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers
to any one or more of its members and may


delegate  all or any part of its  responsibilities  and  powers to any person or
persons  selected by it. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the
Committee  at any time.  Until  action to the  contrary is taken by the Board or
Committee,   the  Committee's  authority  with  respect  to  matters  concerning
Participants  below the Partners Council or Executive Officer level is delegated
to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer of the Company.

5.4.  INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED TO COMMITTEE.  The Company,  the Subsidiaries,
and the Affiliates shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as
it determines may be required for it to discharge its duties. The records of the
Company,   the  Subsidiaries,   and  the  Affiliates  as  to  an  employee's  or
Participant's   employment,   termination  of  employment,   leave  of  absence,
reemployment  and  compensation  shall  be  conclusive  on  all  persons  unless
determined to be incorrect.  Participants and other persons entitled to benefits
under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence,  data or information as
the Committee considers desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan.

                                    SECTION 6
                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     Except as  otherwise  provided  in Section  3, the Board may,  at any time,
amend or terminate the Plan,  provided that no amendment or termination  may, in
the absence of written consent to the change by the affected Participant (or, if
the Participant is not then living, the affected beneficiary),  adversely affect
the rights of any  Participant or beneficiary  under any Award granted under the
Plan prior to the date such amendment is adopted by the Board.

                                    SECTION 7
                                  DEFINED TERMS

     In  addition  to the other  definitions  contained  herein,  the  following
definitions shall apply for purposes of the Plan:

     (a)  "Affiliate"  means  any  corporation  or other  entity  which is not a
Subsidiary but as to which the Company possesses a direct or indirect  ownership
interest and has power to exercise management control.

     (b) "Award" with respect to a  Performance  Period means a right to receive
cash  payments that are  contingent  on the  achievement  of  performance  goals
determined in accordance with Section 2.

     (c) "Award  Schedule"  means the schedule  created by the Committee for any
Performance Period that sets forth the performance goals and the amounts (or the
formula for  determining  the  amounts) of any payments  earned  pursuant to the
Awards granted for that period.

     (d) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under
the  Exchange Act of 1934,  as amended  from time to time,  except that a Person
shall not be  deemed  to be the  Beneficial  Owner of any  securities  which are
properly filed on a Form 13-G.

     (e) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

     (f) A Participant's  "Date of Termination"  with respect to any Award shall
be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date for the Award on which the
Participant is not employed by the Company,  any  Subsidiary,  or any Affiliate,
regardless  of the reason for the  termination  of  employment;  provided that a
termination  of employment  shall not be deemed to occur by reason of a transfer
of the Participant between the Company and a Subsidiary or an Affiliate, between
a Subsidiary and an Affiliate,  or between two  Subsidiaries or Affiliates;  and
further  provided  that the  Participant's  employment  shall not be  considered
terminated  while the  Participant is on a leave of absence from the Company,  a
Subsidiary,  or an Affiliate  approved by the Participant's  employer.  If, as a
result of a sale or other transaction, the Participant's employer ceases to be a
Subsidiary or Affiliate (and the Participant's  employer is or becomes an entity
that is separate from the Company),  and the  Participant  is not, at the end of
the 30-day period following the


transaction,  employed by the Company or an entity that is then a Subsidiary  or
Affiliate,  then the  occurrence  of such  transaction  shall be  treated as the
Participant's  Date of Termination caused by the Participant being discharged by
the employer.

     (g) "Eligible  Employee" means any member of the Partners  Council or other
member of senior management of the Company.

     (h) "Grant  Date" with respect to any Award for any  Participant  means the
date on which  the  Award is  granted  to the  Participant  in  accordance  with
subsection 2.1.

     (i)  "Participant"  means  an  Eligible  Employee  who is  selected  by the
Committee to receive one or more Awards under the Plan.

     (j)   "Performance-Based   Compensation"   means  amounts   satisfying  the
applicable  requirements  imposed by section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder, with respect to that term.

     (k)  "Performance  Period"  with respect to any Award means the period over
which achievement of performance goals is to be measured,  as established by the
Committee at or prior to the Grant Date of the Award.

     (l)  "Person"  shall  have the  meaning  given in  Section  3(a)(9)  of the
Exchange  Act of 1934,  as amended,  as modified  and used in Section  13(d) and
14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of
its Affiliates,  (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary  holding  securities under an
employee  benefit  plan of the  Company  or any of its  Subsidiaries,  (iii)  an
underwriter  temporarily  holding  securities  pursuant  to an  offering of such
securities  , or  (iv) a  corporation  owned,  directly  or  indirectly,  by the
stockholders  of the  Company in  substantially  the same  proportions  as their
ownership of stock of the Company.

     (m) "Subsidiary" means any corporation partnership,  joint venture or other
entity  during  any period in which at least a fifty  percent  voting or profits
interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company (or by any entity that
is a successor to the Company), and any other business venture designated by the
Committee  in which  the  Company  (or any  entity  that is a  successor  to the
Company) has a significant  interest,  as  determined  in the  discretion of the
Committee.

     (n) "Target Amount" means the percentage of a Participant's base salary for
a Performance Period as established by the Committee pursuant to subsection 2.1.







                                                                  EXHIBIT  10.18

                         TRICON GLOBAL RESTAURANTS, INC.
                            LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

                                    SECTION 1
                                     GENERAL

1.1. PURPOSE. The Tricon Global Restaurants,  Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (the
"Plan") has been established by Tricon Global  Restaurants,  Inc. (the "Company"
or "Tricon") to (i) attract and retain  persons  eligible to  participate in the
Plan; (ii) motivate Participants, by means of appropriate incentives, to achieve
long-range goals;  (iii) provide incentive  compensation  opportunities that are
competitive with those of other similar companies;  and (iv) align the interests
of Participants with those of the Company's Shareholders.

1.2.  PARTICIPATION.  Subject  to the terms  and  conditions  of the  Plan,  the
Committee  shall  determine  and  designate,  from time to time,  from among the
Eligible Individuals, those persons who will be granted one or more Awards under
the Plan, and thereby become "Participants" in the Plan.

1.3.   OPERATION,   ADMINISTRATION,   AND   DEFINITIONS.   The   operation   and
administration  of the Plan,  including the Awards made under the Plan, shall be
subject  to  the   provisions   of  Section  4  (relating   to   operation   and
administration).  Capitalized terms in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in
the Plan (including the definition provisions of Section 7 of the Plan).

                                    SECTION 2
                                OPTIONS AND SARS

2.1. DEFINITIONS.

     (a) The grant of an "Option" entitles the Participant to purchase shares of
Stock at an  Exercise  Price and  during a  specified  time  established  by the
Committee. Any Option granted under this Section 2 may be either a non-qualified
option (an "NQO") or an incentive stock option (an "ISO"),  as determined in the
discretion of the Committee. An "NQO" is an Option that is not intended to be an
"incentive  stock  option" as that term is  described  in section  422(b) of the
Code.  An "ISO" is an  Option  that is  intended  to  satisfy  the  requirements
applicable to an "incentive  stock  option"  described in section  422(b) of the
Code.

     (b) A stock  appreciation  right (an "SAR")  entitles  the  Participant  to
receive,  in cash or Stock (as determined in accordance  with  subsection  2.5),
value equal to (or otherwise  based on) the excess of: (a) the Fair Market Value
of a specified  number of shares of Stock at the time of  exercise;  over (b) an
Exercise Price established by the Committee.

2.2.  EXERCISE PRICE.  The "Exercise Price" of each Option and SAR granted under
this Section 2 shall be established by the Committee or shall be determined by a
method  established  by the  Committee at the time the Option or SAR is granted;
except  that the  Exercise  Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market
Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant.

2.3. EXERCISE. An Option and an SAR shall be exercisable in accordance with such
terms and  conditions  and  during  such  periods as may be  established  by the
Committee.

2.4.  PAYMENT OF OPTION EXERCISE PRICE.  The payment of the Exercise Price of an
Option granted under this Section 2 shall be subject to the following:

     (a) Subject to the following  provisions of this  subsection  2.4, the full
Exercise  Price for shares of Stock  purchased  upon the  exercise of any Option
shall be paid at the time of such exercise (except that, in


the case of an exercise  arrangement  approved by the Committee and described in
paragraph  2.4(c),  payment  may be  made  as  soon  as  practicable  after  the
exercise).

     (b) The Exercise Price shall be payable in cash or by tendering,  by either
actual delivery of shares or by attestation,  shares of Stock  acceptable to the
Committee,  and valued at Fair Market Value as of the day of exercise, or in any
combination thereof, as determined by the Committee.

     (c) The  Committee  may permit a  Participant  to elect to pay the Exercise
Price upon the exercise of an Option by irrevocably authorizing a third party to
sell  shares of Stock (or a  sufficient  portion of the  shares)  acquired  upon
exercise of the Option and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale
proceeds to pay the entire Exercise Price and any tax withholding resulting from
such exercise.

2.5.  SETTLEMENT  OF  AWARD.  Settlement  of  Options  and  SARs is  subject  to
subsection 4.7.

2.6. NO REPRICING,  CANCELLATION, OR RE-GRANT OF OPTIONS. Except for adjustments
pursuant to subsection  4.2(f) (relating to adjustment of shares),  the Exercise
Price for any  outstanding  Option  granted  under the Plan may not be decreased
after the date of grant nor may an outstanding  Option granted under the Plan be
surrendered to the Company as  consideration  in exchange for the grant of a new
Option with a lower exercise price.

                                    SECTION 3
                               OTHER STOCK AWARDS

3.1. DEFINITIONS.

     (a) A "Stock Unit" Award is the grant of a right to receive shares of Stock
in the future.

     (b) A "Performance  Share" Award is a grant of a right to receive shares of
Stock or Stock Units which is contingent on the  achievement  of  performance or
other objectives during a specified period.

     (c) A  "Performance  Unit"  Award  is a  grant  of a  right  to  receive  a
designated  dollar value amount of Stock which is contingent on the  achievement
of performance or other objectives during a specified period.

     (d) A  "Restricted  Stock"  Award  is a grant of  shares  of  Stock,  and a
"Restricted Stock Unit" Award is the grant of a right to receive shares of Stock
in the  future,  with such  shares of Stock or right to future  delivery of such
shares of Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other  restrictions that will
lapse  upon the  achievement  of one or more goals  relating  to  completion  of
service by the Participant,  or achievement of performance or other  objectives,
as determined by the Committee.

3.2.  RESTRICTIONS  ON AWARDS.  Each Stock Unit Award,  Restricted  Stock Award,
Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Share Award, and Performance Unit Award
shall be subject to the following:

     (a) Any such Award shall be subject to such  conditions,  restrictions  and
contingencies as the Committee shall determine.

     (b) Any Restricted Stock Award,  Restricted  Stock Unit Award,  Performance
Share Award or Performance Unit Award granted shall provide, at a minimum,  that
the restriction or performance period may not be less than three years except in
the case of retirement, death, disability, or termination without cause in which
case the restriction or performance period may be less than three years.

     (c) The Committee may designate whether any such Award being granted to any
Participant is intended to be  "performance-based  compensation" as that term is
used in section 162(m) of the Code. Any such Awards designated as intended to be
"performance-based  compensation" shall be conditioned on the achievement of one
or more Performance Measures, to the extent required by Code section 162(m). The
Performance  Measures that may be used by the Committee for such Awards shall be
based on any one or more of the following Company, Subsidiary, operating unit or
division  performance  measures,  as  selected  by  the  Committee:  cash  flow;
earnings; earnings per share; market value added or economic value added;


profits;  return on assets;  return on equity;  return on investment;  revenues;
stock  price;  or total  shareholder  return.  Each goal may be  expressed on an
absolute and/or relative basis, may be based on or otherwise employ  comparisons
based on internal  targets,  the past performance of the Company and/or the past
or current  performance of other  companies,  and in the case of  earnings-based
measures,  may use or employ  comparisons  relating  to  capital,  shareholders'
equity and/or shares  outstanding,  investments or to assets or net assets.  For
Awards under this Section 3 intended to be "performance-based compensation," the
grant of the Awards and the  establishment of the Performance  Measures shall be
made during the period required under Code section 162(m).

                                    SECTION 4
                          OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION

4.1.  EFFECTIVE DATE. Subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company
at the  Company's  1999 annual  meeting of its  shareholders,  the Plan shall be
effective as of May 20, 1999 (the "Effective Date"). The Plan shall be unlimited
in duration  and, in the event of Plan  termination,  shall  remain in effect as
long as any Awards under it are outstanding;  provided,  however, that no Awards
may be granted  under the Plan after the ten-year  anniversary  of the Effective
Date (except for Awards granted  pursuant to  commitments  entered into prior to
such ten-year anniversary).

4.2 The shares of Stock for which Awards may be granted  under the Plan shall be
subject to the following:

     (a) The shares of Stock with  respect to which Awards may be made under the
Plan shall be shares  currently  authorized  but unissued or  currently  held or
subsequently  acquired  by the  Company as  treasury  shares,  including  shares
purchased in the open market or in private transactions.

     (b) Subject to the following provisions of this subsection 4.2, the maximum
number  of shares  of Stock  that may be  delivered  to  Participants  and their
beneficiaries under the Plan shall be 7,600,000.

     (c) To the extent  provided by the  Committee,  any Award may be settled in
cash rather than  Stock.  To the extent any shares of Stock  covered by an Award
are not delivered to a Participant or beneficiary because the Award is forfeited
or  canceled,  or the  shares of Stock are not  delivered  because  the Award is
settled in cash or used to satisfy the  applicable tax  withholding  obligation,
such  shares  shall  not be  deemed  to have  been  delivered  for  purposes  of
determining  the maximum number of shares of Stock  available for delivery under
the Plan.

     (d) If the  exercise  price of any stock option  granted  under the Plan is
satisfied by tendering shares of Stock to the Company (by either actual delivery
or by attestation),  only the number of shares of Stock issued net of the shares
of Stock  tendered  shall be deemed  delivered for purposes of  determining  the
maximum number of shares of Stock available for delivery under the Plan.

     (e) Subject to paragraph  4.2(f),  the  following  additional  maximums are
imposed under the Plan.

          (i) The maximum number of shares that may be covered by Awards granted
     to any one individual  pursuant to Section 2 (relating to Options and SARs)
     shall be  2,000,000  shares  during any five  calendar-year  period.  If an
     Option is in tandem  with an SAR,  such that the  exercise of the Option or
     SAR with  respect  to a share of Stock  cancels  the  tandem  SAR or Option
     right, respectively,  with respect to such share, the tandem Option and SAR
     rights with respect to each share of Stock shall be counted as covering one
     share of Stock for purposes of applying the  limitations  of this paragraph
     (ii).

          (ii) For Stock Unit Awards,  Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock
     Unit  Awards  and  Performance   Share  Awards  that  are  intended  to  be
     "performance-based compensation" (as that term is used for purposes of Code
     section  162(m)),  no more than  300,000  shares of Stock may be subject to
     such Awards  granted to any one  individual  during any  five-calendar-year
     period  (regardless of when such shares are deliverable).  If, after shares
     have  been  earned,  the  delivery  is  deferred,   any  additional  shares
     attributable to dividends during the deferred period shall be disregarded.


          (iii) The  maximum  number  of  shares of Stock  that may be issued in
     conjunction  with Awards  granted  pursuant to Section 3 (relating to Other
     Stock Awards) shall be 500,000 shares except that Stock Units or Restricted
     Shares granted with respect to the deferral of annual cash incentive awards
     under the Company's deferral plan will not count towards this maximum.

          (iv)  For   Performance   Unit   Awards   that  are   intended  to  be
     "performance-based compensation" (as that term is used for purposes of Code
     section  162(m)),  no more than  $1,000,000  may be subject to such  Awards
     granted  to  any  one  individual  during  any   one-calendar-year   period
     (regardless of when such amounts are  deliverable).  If, after amounts have
     been earned with respect to Performance  Unit Awards,  the delivery of such
     amounts is deferred, any additional amounts attributable to earnings during
     the deferral period shall be disregarded.

          (v)  Awards to  non-employee  directors  are  limited to (i) an annual
     Stock grant  retainer  with a Fair Market Value of $50,000;  (ii) an annual
     grant of options to buy $50,000 worth of Tricon's Stock at a price equal to
     the Fair Market  Value of a share of Stock on the grant  date;  and (iii) a
     one-time  Stock grant with a Fair Market Value of $25,000 on the grant date
     upon joining the Board, payment of which will be deferred until termination
     from the Board. The Board may increase these awards by twenty-five  percent
     (25%) of the amounts  described  in the  previous  sentence if necessary to
     keep compensation of directors within competitive practices.

     (f)  In  the  event  of  a  corporate  transaction  involving  the  Company
(including,  without limitation,  any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary
cash  dividend,   recapitalization,   reorganization,   merger,   consolidation,
split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the Committee may adjust
Awards to preserve the benefits or potential  benefits of the Awards.  Action by
the Committee may include: (i) adjustment of the number and kind of shares which
may be  delivered  under the Plan;  (ii)  adjustment  of the  number and kind of
shares subject to outstanding Awards;  (iii) adjustment of the Exercise Price of
outstanding  Options and SARs; and (iv) any other adjustments that the Committee
determines to be equitable.

4.3.  GENERAL  RESTRICTIONS.  Delivery of shares of Stock or other amounts under
the Plan shall be subject to the following:

     (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have
no  liability  to deliver  any shares of Stock  under the Plan or make any other
distribution  of benefits  under the Plan unless such  delivery or  distribution
would  comply with all  applicable  laws  (including,  without  limitation,  the
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933), and the applicable  requirements of
any securities exchange or similar entity.

     (b) To the extent that the Plan provides for issuance of stock certificates
to reflect the  issuance of shares of Stock,  the  issuance may be effected on a
non-certificated  basis,  to the extent not  prohibited by applicable law or the
applicable rules of any stock exchange.

4.4.  TAX  WITHHOLDING.   All  distributions  under  the  Plan  are  subject  to
withholding  of all  applicable  taxes,  and the  Committee  may  condition  the
delivery of any shares or other benefits under the Plan on  satisfaction  of the
applicable  withholding  obligations.  The  Committee,  in its  discretion,  and
subject to such requirements as the Committee may impose prior to the occurrence
of such  withholding,  may permit such  withholding  obligations to be satisfied
through  cash  payment by the  Participant,  through the  surrender of shares of
Stock which the Participant  already owns, or through the surrender of shares of
Stock to which the Participant is otherwise entitled under the Plan.

4.5. GRANT AND USE OF AWARDS. In the discretion of the Committee,  a Participant
may be granted any Award  permitted  under the  provisions of the Plan, and more
than one Award  may be  granted  to a  Participant.  Awards  may be  granted  as
alternatives to or replacement of awards granted or outstanding  under the Plan,
or any other plan or  arrangement  of the Company or a  Subsidiary  (including a
plan or  arrangement  of a  business  or  entity,  all or a portion  of which is
acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary).  Subject to the overall  limitation on
the  number of  shares  of Stock  that may be  delivered  under  the  Plan,  the
Committee  may  use  available  shares  of  Stock  as the  form of  payment  for
compensation, grants or


rights earned or due under any other  compensation  plans or arrangements of the
Company or a Subsidiary,  including the plans and arrangements of the Company or
a Subsidiary assumed in business combinations.

4.6. DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS.  An Award (including without limitation
an Option or SAR Award) may  provide the  Participant  with the right to receive
dividend payments or dividend  equivalent payments with respect to Stock subject
to the Award  (both  before and after the Stock  subject to the Award is earned,
vested, or acquired), which payments may be either made currently or credited to
an  account  for the  Participant,  and may be  settled  in  cash or  Stock,  as
determined by the  Committee.  Any such  settlements,  and any such crediting of
dividends or dividend  equivalents or  reinvestment  in shares of Stock,  may be
subject to such  conditions,  restrictions  and  contingencies  as the Committee
shall  establish,  including the  reinvestment of such credited amounts in Stock
equivalents.

4.7. SETTLEMENT AND PAYMENTS.  Awards may be settled through cash payments,  the
delivery of shares of Stock, the granting of replacement  Awards, or combination
thereof  as the  Committee  shall  determine.  Any Award  settlement,  including
payment  deferrals,  may  be  subject  to  such  conditions,   restrictions  and
contingencies  as the  Committee  shall  determine.  The Committee may permit or
require the deferral of any Award payment,  subject to such rules and procedures
as it may establish,  which may include  provisions for the payment or crediting
of interest,  or dividend  equivalents,  including  converting such credits into
deferred Stock equivalents.  Each Subsidiary shall be liable for payment of cash
due under the Plan with  respect  to any  Participant  to the  extent  that such
benefits are  attributable  to the services  rendered for that Subsidiary by the
Participant.  Any  disputes  relating  to  liability  of a  Subsidiary  for cash
payments shall be resolved by the Committee.

4.8.  TRANSFERABILITY.  Except as otherwise  provided by the  Committee,  Awards
under the Plan are not  transferable  except as designated by the Participant by
will or by the laws of descent and distribution.

4.9.  FORM  AND TIME OF  ELECTIONS.  Unless  otherwise  specified  herein,  each
election  required or  permitted to be made by any  Participant  or other person
entitled  to  benefits  under  the  Plan,  and any  permitted  modification,  or
revocation thereof,  shall be in writing filed with the Committee at such times,
in such form, and subject to such restrictions and limitations, not inconsistent
with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall require.

4.10.  AGREEMENT WITH COMPANY.  An Award under the Plan shall be subject to such
terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee shall, in
its sole  discretion,  prescribe.  The terms and  conditions of any Award to any
Participant shall be reflected in such form of written document as is determined
by the Committee.  A copy of such document shall be provided to the Participant,
and the Committee may, but need not require that the Participant  sign a copy of
such document.  Such document is referred to in the Plan as an "Award Agreement"
regardless of whether any Participant signature is required.

4.11.  ACTION BY COMPANY OR SUBSIDIARY.  Any action  required or permitted to be
taken by the Company or any  Subsidiary  shall be by  resolution of its board of
directors,  or by  action  of one or  more  non-employee  members  of the  board
(including  a  committee  of the board) who are duly  authorized  to act for the
board, or (except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or applicable rules
of any stock exchange) by a duly authorized  officer of such company,  or by any
employee  of the  Company or any  Subsidiary  who is  delegated  by the board of
directors authority to take such action.

4.12.  GENDER AND NUMBER.  Where the context  admits,  words in any gender shall
include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the
plural shall include the singular.

4.13. LIMITATION OF IMPLIED RIGHTS.

     (a)  Neither  a  Participant  nor any  other  person  shall,  by  reason of
participation in the Plan, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or
property  of  the  Company  or any  Subsidiary  whatsoever,  including,  without
limitation,  any specific funds,  assets, or other property which the Company or
any


Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability
under the Plan. A Participant  shall have only a contractual  right to the Stock
or  amounts,  if any,  payable  under the Plan,  unsecured  by any assets of the
Company or any Subsidiary,  and nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a
guarantee that the assets of the Company or any  Subsidiary  shall be sufficient
to pay any benefits to any person.

     (b) The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and selection as
a Participant will not give any  participating  employee or other individual the
right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary or the right
to continue to provide services to the Company or any Subsidiary,  nor any right
or  claim to any  benefit  under  the  Plan,  unless  such  right  or claim  has
specifically  accrued under the terms of the Plan. Except as otherwise  provided
in the Plan,  no Award under the Plan shall  confer upon the holder  thereof any
rights as a shareholder of the Company prior to the date on which the individual
fulfills all conditions for receipt of such rights.

4.14.  EVIDENCE.   Evidence  required  of  anyone  under  the  Plan  may  be  by
certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on
it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper
party or parties.

                                    SECTION 5
                                CHANGE IN CONTROL

     Subject to the provisions of paragraph  4.2(f)  (relating to the adjustment
of shares),  and except as otherwise provided in the Plan or the Award Agreement
reflecting  the applicable  Award,  the Committee may provide under the terms of
any Award that upon the occurrence of a Change in Control:

     (a) All  outstanding  Options  (regardless  of whether in tandem with SARs)
shall become fully exercisable.

     (b) All  outstanding  SARs  (regardless  of whether in tandem with Options)
shall become fully exercisable.

     (c)  All  Stock  Units,  Restricted  Stock,  Restricted  Stock  Units,  and
Performance  Shares  (including  any Award  payable in Stock which is granted in
conjunction with a Company deferral program) shall become fully vested.

                                    SECTION 6
                                    COMMITTEE

6.1.  ADMINISTRATION.  The  authority  to control and manage the  operation  and
administration  of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the  "Committee") in
accordance  with this Section 6. The  Committee  shall be selected by the Board,
and shall consist solely of two or more  non-employee  members of the Board.  If
the Committee does not exist,  or for any other reason  determined by the Board,
the  Board  may take any  action  under the Plan  that  would  otherwise  be the
responsibility  of the  Committee.  As of the date  this  Plan is  adopted,  the
Committee shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

6.2. POWERS OF COMMITTEE.  The Committee's  administration  of the Plan shall be
subject to the following:

     (a) Subject to the  provisions  of the Plan,  the  Committee  will have the
authority  and  discretion to select from among the Eligible  Individuals  those
persons who shall receive Awards, to determine the time or times of receipt,  to
determine the types of Awards and the number of shares covered by the Awards, to
establish the terms, conditions,  performance criteria,  restrictions, and other
provisions of such Awards,  and (subject to the restrictions  imposed by Section
7) to cancel or suspend Awards.

     (b) To the  extent  that the  Committee  determines  that the  restrictions
imposed by the Plan  preclude the  achievement  of the material  purposes of the
Awards in jurisdictions  outside the United States,  the Committee will have the
authority  and  discretion  to  modify  those   restrictions  as  the  Committee
determines


to be  necessary  or  appropriate  to  conform  to  applicable  requirements  or
practices of jurisdictions outside of the United States.

     (c) The Committee  will have the authority and  discretion to interpret the
Plan, to establish, amend, and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the
Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of any Award Agreement made pursuant
to the  Plan,  and to make all other  determinations  that may be  necessary  or
advisable for the administration of the Plan.

     (d) Any  interpretation  of the Plan by the Committee and any decision made
by it under the Plan is final and binding on all persons.

     (e) In  controlling  and managing the operation and  administration  of the
Plan, the Committee  shall take action in a manner that conforms to the articles
and by-laws of the Company, and applicable state corporate law.

6.3. DELEGATION BY COMMITTEE.  Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law
or the applicable  rules of a stock exchange,  the Committee may allocate all or
any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members
and may  delegate  all or any part of its  responsibilities  and  powers  to any
person or persons  selected  by it. Any such  allocation  or  delegation  may be
revoked by the  Committee at any time.  Until action to the contrary is taken by
the Board or the Committee, the Committee's authority with respect to Awards and
other matters  concerning  Participants  below the Partners Council or Executive
Officer  level is delegated to the Chief  Executive  Officer or the Chief People
Officer of the Company.

6.4.  INFORMATION  TO BE FURNISHED TO  COMMITTEE.  The Company and  Subsidiaries
shall furnish the Committee with such data and  information as it determines may
be  required  for it to  discharge  its  duties.  The records of the Company and
Subsidiaries as to an employee's or Participant's employment (or other provision
of  services),  termination  of  employment  (or  cessation of the  provision of
services),  leave of absence,  reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive
on all persons unless determined to be incorrect. Participants and other persons
entitled to benefits  under the Plan must furnish the Committee  such  evidence,
data or information as the Committee  considers desirable to carry out the terms
of the Plan.

6.5  MISCONDUCT.  If the Committee  determines that a present or former employee
has (i) used for profit or disclosed to  unauthorized  persons,  confidential or
trade  secrets of Tricon;  (ii)  breached  any  contract  with or  violated  any
fiduciary  obligation  to  Tricon;  or (iii)  engaged in any  conduct  which the
Committee  determines is injurious to the Company,  the Committee may cause that
employee  to forfeit his or her  outstanding  awards  under the Plan,  provided,
however, that during the pendency of a Potential Change in Control and as of and
following the occurrence a Change in Control,  no  outstanding  awards under the
Plan shall be subject to  forfeiture  pursuant to this Section 6.5. A "Potential
Change in  Control"  shall be deemed to have  occurred if the event set forth in
any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:

     A "Potential  Change in Control" shall exist during any period in which the
circumstances  described  in  items  (i),  (ii),  (iii) or  (iv),  below,  exist
(provided,  however, that a Potential Change in Control shall cease to exist not
later than the occurrence of a Change in Control):

          (i) The  Company or any  successor  or assign  thereof  enters into an
     agreement,  the  consummation  of which would result in the occurrence of a
     Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control described in
     this item (i) shall cease to exist upon the expiration or other termination
     of all such agreements.

          (ii)  Any  Person  (including  the  Company)  publicly   announces  an
     intention to take or to consider taking actions which if consummated  would
     constitute a Change in Control; provided that a Potential Change in Control
     described  in this item (ii) shall  cease to exist upon the  withdrawal  of
     such intention, or upon a reasonable  determination by the Board that there
     is no reasonable chance that such actions would be consummated.


          (iii) Any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly,
     of  securities  of the  Company  representing  15% or more of the  combined
     voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities (not including in
     the securities  beneficially  owned by such Person any securities  acquired
     directly from the Company or any of its affiliates).  However,  a Potential
     Change in Control  shall not be deemed to exist by reason of  ownership  of
     securities of the Company by any person, to the extent that such securities
     of the Company are acquired pursuant to a reorganization, recapitalization,
     spin-off or other similar  transactions  (including a series of prearranged
     related transactions) to the extent that immediately after such transaction
     or  transactions,  such  securities  are  directly or  indirectly  owned in
     substantially  the same  proportions as the proportions of ownership of the
     Company's securities immediately prior to the transaction or transactions.

          (iv) The Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of
     this Plan, a potential change in control exists;  provided that a Potential
     Change in Control  described  in this item (iv) shall cease to exist upon a
     reasonable  determination  by the Board that the reasons  that give rise to
     the resolution providing for the existence of a Potential Change in Control
     have expired or no longer exist."

                                    SECTION 7
                            AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     The Board may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan,  provided that (i)
no amendment or termination may, in the absence of written consent to the change
by the affected  Participant  (or, if the  Participant  is not then living,  the
affected  beneficiary),  adversely  affect  the  rights  of any  Participant  or
beneficiary  under  any  Award  granted  under  the Plan  prior to the date such
amendment  is  adopted  by the  Board;  (ii)  no  amendments  may  increase  the
limitations on the number of shares set forth in  subsections  4.2(b) and 4.2(e)
or decrease the minimum Option or SAR Exercise Price set forth in subsection 2.2
unless any such amendment is approved by the Company's  shareholders;  (iii) the
provisions of subsection 2.6 (relating to Option  repricing) may not be amended,
unless any such  amendment is approved by the  Company's  shareholders;  (iv) no
amendment may expand the definition of Eligible  Individual in subsection  8(e),
unless any such  amendment  is approved by the  Company's  shareholders;  (v) no
amendment may decrease the minimum  restriction or performance  period set forth
in  subsection  3.2(c),  unless any such  amendment is approved by the Company's
shareholders;  and (vi) adjustments  pursuant to subsection  4.2(f) shall not be
subject to the foregoing limitations of this Section 7.

                                    SECTION 8
                                  DEFINED TERMS

     In  addition  to the other  definitions  contained  herein,  the  following
definitions shall apply:

     (a) AWARD.  The term "Award" shall mean any award or benefit  granted under
the Plan, including,  without limitation, the grant of Options, SARs, Stock Unit
Awards, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards,  Performance Unit
Awards, and Performance Share Awards.

     (b)  BOARD.  The term  "Board"  shall  mean the Board of  Directors  of the
Company.

     (c) CHANGE IN CONTROL.  Except as otherwise  provided by the  Committee,  a
"Change in Control"  shall be deemed to have  occurred if the event set forth in
any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:

          (i) any  Person  is or  becomes  the  Beneficial  Owner,  directly  or
     indirectly,  of securities of the Company (not  including in the securities
     beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the
     Company or its Affiliates)  representing 20% or more of the combined voting
     power of the Company's then  outstanding  securities,  excluding any Person
     who  becomes  such a  Beneficial  Owner in  connection  with a  transaction
     described in clause (I) of paragraph (iii) below; or


          (ii) the  following  individuals  cease for any reason to constitute a
     majority of the number of directors then serving;  individuals  who, on the
     date  hereof,  constitute  the Board  and any new  director  (other  than a
     director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual
     or  threatened  election  contest,  including  but not limited to a consent
     solicitation,  relating to the election of directors of the Company), whose
     appointment  or election  by the Board or  nomination  for  election by the
     Company's  stockholders  was approved or  recommended by a vote of at least
     two-thirds  (2/3) of the  directors  then still in office  who either  were
     directors on the date hereof or whose  appointment,  election or nomination
     for election was previously so approved or recommended; or

          (iii) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or
     any direct or indirect  Subsidiary with any other  corporation,  other than
     (I) a merger or consolidation immediately following which those individuals
     who immediately  prior to the consummation of such merger or consolidation,
     constituted  the Board,  constitute a majority of the board of directors of
     the Company or the surviving or resulting entity or any parent thereof,  or
     (II) a merger or consolidation  effected to implement a recapitalization of
     the Company (or similar  transaction)  in which no Person is or becomes the
     Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not
     including  in  the  securities   beneficially  owned  by  such  Person  any
     securities   acquired   directly  from  the  Company  or  its   Affiliates)
     representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then
     outstanding securities.

     Notwithstanding the foregoing, a "Change in Control" shall not be deemed to
have  occurred by virtue of the  consummation  of any  transaction  or series of
integrated  transactions  immediately  following which the record holders of the
common stock of the Company  immediately  prior to such transaction or series of
transactions continue to have substantially the same proportionate  ownership in
an entity  which  owns all or  substantially  all of the  assets of the  Company
immediately following such transaction or series of transactions.

     "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 under Section 12
of the Exchange Act.

     "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange  Act,  except  that a Person  shall not be deemed to be the  Beneficial
Owner of any securities which are properly filed on a Form 13-G.

     "Exchange Act" shall mean the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
from time to time.

     "Person"  shall have the meaning  given in Section  3(a)(9) of the Exchange
Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof,  except that such
term shall not  include (i) Tricon or any of its  Affiliates;  (ii) a trustee or
other fiduciary  holding  securities under an employee benefit plan of Tricon or
any of its subsidiaries;  (iii) an underwriter  temporarily  holding  securities
pursuant  to an  offering  of  such  securities;  or (iv) a  corporation  owned,
directly or indirectly,  by the stockholders of Tricon in substantially the same
proportions as their ownership of stock of Tricon.

     (d) CODE.  The term "Code"  means the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as
amended. A reference to any provision of the Code shall include reference to any
successor provision of the Code.

     (e)  ELIGIBLE  INDIVIDUAL.  For  purposes of the Plan,  the term  "Eligible
Individual"  shall mean any  employee  of the Company or a  Subsidiary,  and any
director of the Company.  An Award may be granted to an employee,  in connection
with hiring,  retention or otherwise,  prior to the date the employee or service
provider first performs services for the Company or the  Subsidiaries,  provided
that such  Awards  shall not become  vested  prior to the date the  employee  or
service provider first performs such services.

     (f) FAIR MARKET VALUE.  For purposes of determining the "Fair Market Value"
of a share of Stock as of any date,  Fair  Market  Value  shall mean the average
between the lowest and highest reported sale prices of the Stock on that date on
the principal exchange on which the Stock is then listed or admitted to trading.


If the day is not a business day, and as a result,  paragraphs (i) and (ii) next
above are  inapplicable,  the Fair Market Value of the Stock shall be determined
as of the last preceding business day.

     (g) SUBSIDIARIES. The term "Subsidiary" means any corporation, partnership,
joint  venture  or other  entity  during  any  period  in which at least a fifty
percent  voting or profits  interest is owned,  directly or  indirectly,  by the
Company  (or by any entity that is a successor  to the  Company),  and any other
business venture designated by the Committee in which the Company (or any entity
that is a successor to the Company) has a significant interest, as determined in
the discretion of the Committee.

     (h)  STOCK.  The term  "Stock"  shall  mean  shares of common  stock of the
Company.






                                                                      EXHIBIT 12

                         TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.
            Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges Years Ended 1999-1995
                       (in millions except ratio amounts)



(a)  Included  in  earnings   for  the  years  1995  through  1997  are  certain
     allocations  related to overhead  costs and interest  expense from PepsiCo.
     For  purposes  of these  ratios,  earnings  are  calculated  by  adding  to
     (subtracting  from) pretax income from continuing  operations before income
     taxes and  cumulative  effect of accounting  changes the  following:  fixed
     charges,   excluding   capitalized   interest;   (minority   interests   in
     consolidated  subsidiaries);  (equity  income  (loss)  from  unconsolidated
     affiliates);  and distributed income from unconsolidated affiliates.  Fixed
     charges  consist of interest on  borrowings,  the  allocation  of PepsiCo's
     interest  expense for years  1995-1997  and that portion of rental  expense
     that approximates  interest.  For a description of the PepsiCo allocations,
     see the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in our 1999
     Form 10-K.
(b)  Included  the impact of  unusual  charges  (credits)  of $51  million  ($29
     million  after-tax)  in 1999,  $15 million ($3 million  after-tax) in 1998,
     $184 million ($165  million after tax) in 1997,  $246 million ($189 million
     after  tax) in 1996 and $457  million  ($324  million  after  tax) in 1995.
     Excluding  the  impact  of such  charges,  the ratio of  earnings  to fixed
     charges would have been 4.45x, 2.92x, 1.36x, 1.73x and 1.80x for the fiscal
     years ended 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
(c)  For the fiscal years December 27, 1997 and December 30, 1995, earnings were
     insufficient  to cover fixed charges by  approximately  $38 million and $77
     million,  respectively.  Earnings in 1997 includes a charge of $530 million
     ($425  million  after-tax)  taken in the  fourth  quarter  to  refocus  our
     business.  Earnings in 1995  included  the noncash  charge of $457  million
     ($324 million after-tax) for the initial adoption of Statement of Financial
     Accounting  Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
     Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."


                                                                    Exhibit 21.1

                             SUBSIDIARIES OF TRICON
                             ----------------------
                           AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1999 (1)
                           -----------------------

                                                               State or
                                                             Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                          Incorporation
- ------------------                                          --------------

A & M Food Services, Inc.                                    Nevada
Calny, Inc.                                                  Delaware
Changsha KFC Co., Ltd.                                       China
Chengdu KFC                                                  China
Chongqing KFC Co., Ltd.                                      China
Dalian Kentucky Fried Chicken Co., Ltd.                      China
El KrAm, Inc                                                 Iowa
Glenharney Insurance Company                                 Vermont
Guangdong KFC Co., Ltd.                                      China
Hangzhou KFC                                                 China
Kentucky Fried Chicken (Great Britain) Limited               United Kingdom
Kentucky Fried Chicken Beijing Co., Ltd.                     China
Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporate Holdings Ltd.               Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation                           Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.               Mexico
Kentucky Fried Chicken Espana, S.L.                          Spain
Kentucky Fried Chicken Global B.V.                           Netherlands
Kentucky Fried Chicken International Holdings, Inc.          Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken Japan Ltd.                            Japan
Kentucky Fried Chicken of California, Inc.                   Delaware
Kentucky Fried Chicken of Southern California, Inc.          California
Kentucky Fried Chicken Worldwide B.V.                        Netherlands
KFC Corporation                                              Delaware
KFC Enterprises, Inc.                                        Delaware
KFC France SAS                                               France
KFC International (Thailand) Ltd.                            Thailand
KFC Management Pte. Ltd.                                     Singapore
KFC National Management Company                              Delaware
KFC Pty. Ltd.                                                Australia
KFCC/TRICON Holdings Ltd.                                    Canada
Nanjling KFC Co. Ltd.                                        China
PCNZ Investments Ltd.                                        Mauritius
PCNZ Ltd.                                                    Mauritius
PepsiCo Eurasia Limited                                      Delaware
PHM de Mexico S.A. de C.V.                                   Mexico
Pizza Belgium B.V.B.A.                                       Belgium
Pizza France S.N.C.                                          France
Pizza Gida Isletmeleri A.S.                                  Turkey
Pizza Hut (U.K.) Ltd.                                        United Kingdom
Pizza Hut International (UK) Ltd.                            United Kingdom



                                                               State or
                                                             Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                          Incorporation
- ------------------                                          --------------

Pizza Hut International, LLC                                 Delaware
Pizza Hut Korea Co., Ltd.                                    Korea
Pizza Hut Mexicana S.A. de C.V.                              Mexico
Pizza Hut of America, Inc.                                   Delaware
Pizza Hut of Puerto Rico, Inc.                               Delaware
Pizza Hut Singapore Pte. Ltd.                                Singapore
Pizza Hut West, Inc.                                         California
Pizza Hut, Inc.                                              California
Pizza Huts of the Northwest, Inc.                            Minnesota
Pizza Management, Inc.                                       Texas
Qingdao Kentucky Fried Chicken Co. Ltd.                      China
Red Raider Pizza Company                                     Delaware
Restaurant Holdings Ltd.                                     United Kingdom
SEPSA S.N.C.                                                 France
Shanghai Kentucky Fried Chicken                              China
Shanghai Pizza Hut Co. Ltd.                                  China
Shenyang KFC Co., Ltd.                                       China
Shenzhen KFC Co., Ltd.                                       China
Spizza 30 S.A.S.                                             France
Suzhou KFC                                                   China
Taco Bell Corp.                                              California
Taco Bell of America, Inc.                                   Delaware
Taco Bell of California, Inc.                                California
Taco Caliente, Inc.                                          Arizona
Taco Del Sur, Inc.                                           Georgia
Taco Enterprises, Inc.                                       Michigan
TB Holdings                                                  California
TBLD Corp.                                                   California
Tenga Taco, Inc.                                             Florida
Tianjin KFC Co.                                              China
Tricon (China) Investment Company, Ltd.                      China
Tricon (Shanghai) Consulting Co., Ltd.                       China
Tricon Global Restaurants (Canada), Inc.                     Canada
Tricon Global Restaurants of Puerto Rico, Inc.               Delaware
Tricon Global Restaurants S.A. de C.V.                       Mexico
Tricon International Participations S.a.r.l.                 Luxembourg
Tricon Restaurant Services Group, Inc.                       Delaware
TRICON Restaurants (Taiwan) Co., Ltd.                        Taiwan
TRICON Restaurants Australia Pty Ltd.                        Australia
Tricon Restaurants International (India) Pvt. Ltd.           India
Tricon Restaurants International Ltd. & Co. K.G.             Germany
Tricon Restaurants International, Ltd.                       Cayman Islands


                                                               State or
                                                             Country of
Name of Subsidiary                                          Incorporation
- ------------------                                          --------------

Tricon Restaurants Poland Sp.Zo.o.                           Poland
Tricon Restaurants South Africa Pty. Ltd.                    South Africa
Tricon Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.                          Singapore
Upper Midwest Pizza Hut, Inc.                                Delaware
Von Karman Leasing Corp.                                     Delaware
Wuhan KFC Co. Ltd.                                           China
Wuxi KFC Co., Ltd.                                           China
Xiamen - KFC Co., Ltd.                                       China

- -------------------------
Note:

(1)  This Schedule lists the entities that were active subsidiaries of Tricon as
     of December 31,  1999.  Omitted  from the above list are  approximately  75
     insignificant  or  inactive   subsidiaries  which,  if  considered  in  the
     aggregate  as a single  subsidiary,  would  not  constitute  a  significant
     subsidiary.  The list also excludes  approximately 75 subsidiaries of Pizza
     Hut, Inc., most of which operate restaurants in the U.S., and approximately
     30  subsidiaries  of Kentucky Fried Chicken  Corporation and Kentucky Fried
     Chicken of California,  Inc., most of which operate  restaurants outside of
     the U.S.







                                                                    Exhibit 23.1



                         Consent of Independent Auditors



The Board of Directors
TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.:


We consent to  incorporation  by reference in the  registration  statements (No.
333-42969) on Form S-3/A and (Nos. 333-36877,  333-36955,  333-36895, 333-36961,
333-36893,  333-64547,  333-85073 and 333-85069) on Form S-8 of our report dated
February  8,  2000,  except as to Note 11,  which is as of  February  25,  2000,
relating to the consolidated  balance sheet of TRICON Global  Restaurants,  Inc.
and  Subsidiaries as of December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998, and the related
consolidated  statements of operations,  cash flows and shareholders'  (deficit)
equity and  comprehensive  income for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 25, 1999, which report appears in the Company's December 25, 1999
annual report on Form 10-K of TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc.





KPMG LLP

Louisville, Kentucky
March 6, 2000


