ITEM 1.BUSINESS

We were incorporated under the
laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We conduct our business through three direct wholly owned subsidiaries, Power, PSE&G and Energy Holdings, each of
which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. PSEG Services Corporation (Services), our wholly owned subsidiary, provides us and these operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and
general services at cost.



As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2009











We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the
Northeastern and Mid Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries’ operating results. Below
are descriptions of our principal operating subsidiaries.



PowerPSE&GEnergy HoldingsA Delaware limited liability company formed in
1999 that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy sales, fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management functions.Earns revenues from selling under contract or on the spot market a range of diverse products such as electricity, natural gas, capacity, emissions credits
and a series of energy-related products used to optimize the operation of the energy grid.A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New
Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory.Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and gas distribution to residential, commercial and
industrial customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory.It is implementing several programs to improve efficiencies in customer energy use and increase the level of renewable generation.A New Jersey limited liability company
(successor to a company which was incorporated in 1989) that invests and operates through its two primary subsidiaries.Earns revenues from managing leveraged lease investments and the operation of its domestic generation projects.Also pursuing solar and other renewable generation projects.

The majority of our earnings are derived from the operations of Power, which has contributed at least 70% of our Income from Continuing Operations over the past three years. While this part of the
business has produced significant earnings over that period, its operations are subject to higher risks resulting from volatility in the energy markets. As a rate-regulated public utility, PSE&G has continued to be a stable earnings contributor
for us. Earnings from Energy Holdings have significantly declined over the past few years as we sold virtually all of our investments in international projects. Energy Holdings’ earnings have also been impacted by gains and losses on its asset
sales and other charges and impairments taken on its remaining investments.



Earnings (Losses) in millions200920082007Power$1,189$1,115$1,000PSE&G325364380Energy Holdings72(468)12Other6(28)(67)PSEG Income from Continuing Operations$1,592$983$1,325

The following is a more detailed description of our business, including a discussion of our:



•Business Operations and Strategy



•Competitive Environment



•Employee Relations



•Regulatory Issues



•Environmental Matters







BUSINESSOPERATIONS AND STRATEGY



Power

Through Power, we seek to produce
low-cost energy by efficiently operating our nuclear, coal and gas-fired generation facilities, while balancing generation production, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. We use commodity contracts and
financial instruments, combined with our owned generation, to cover our commitments for Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contract agreements.

Products and Services

As a
merchant generator, our profit is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to power marketers and to others, such as investor-owned and municipal utilities, and to aggregators who resell energy to retail consumers, or in
the spot market. These products and services include:



•Energy— the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air
conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kWh or dollars per MWh.



•Capacity—a product distinct from energy, is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System
Operator (ISO) for dispatch if it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period.



•Ancillary Services—related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market, required by the ISO to ensure the safe
and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges imposed on
market participants.



•Emissions Allowances and Congestion Credits—Emissions allowances (or credits) represent the right to emit a specific amount of certain
pollutants. Allowance trading is used to control air pollution by providing economic incentives for achieving reductions in the emissions of pollutants. Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the
holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path.

Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full requirements Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract with PSE&G to meet the gas supply requirements of PSE&G’s customers. The current BGSS contract runs through
March 31, 2012.

About 44% of PSE&G’s peak daily gas requirements comes from Power’s firm transportation, which is available
every day of the year. Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&G’s requirements from field storage, liquefied natural gas, seasonal purchases, contract peaking supply, propane, refinery and landfill gas. Based upon availability, Power also
sells gas to others.

How Power Operates

We own approximately 13,500 MWs of generation capacity located in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions of the U.S. in some of the country’s largest and most developed electricity markets.







The map below shows the locations of Power’s Northeast and Mid Atlantic generation facilities.



We also own 2,000 MW of generation capacity in Texas which was transferred from Energy Holdings in October 2009. See
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information.







For additional information on each of our generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.



•Generation Capacity

Our installed capacity utilizes a diverse mix of fuels: 52% gas, 24% nuclear, 15% coal, 8% oil and 1% pumped storage. This fuel diversity helps to mitigate risks associated with fuel price volatility and
market demand cycles. Our total generating output in 2009 was approximately 59,800 GWh. The following table indicates the proportionate share of generating output by fuel type.



Generation by Fuel TypeActual 2009Nuclear:New Jersey facilities35%Pennsylvania facilities16%Fossil:Coal:New Jersey facilities5%Pennsylvania facilities8%Connecticut facilities2%Oil and Natural Gas:New Jersey facilities15%New York facilities6%Texas facilities13%Total100%

The generation by our coal units in 2009 was
adversely affected by the relatively favorable price of natural gas as compared to coal, making it more economical to run certain of our gas units than our coal units. This caused a decrease in our coal unit production in 2009 compared to 2008. We
expect our coal unit generation to increase in 2010 as compared to 2009.



•Generation Dispatch

Our generation units are typically characterized as serving one or more of three general energy market segments: base load; load following; and peaking, based on their operating capability and
performance. On a capacity basis, our portfolio of generation assets consists of 31% base load, 50% load following and 19% peaking. This diversity helps to reduce the risk associated with market demand cycles and allows us to participate in the
market at each segment of the dispatch curve.



¡Base Load Unitsoperate whenever they are available. These units generally derive revenues from energy and capacity sales. Variable operating
costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit’s “capacity factor,” or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical
maximum output. Our base load nuclear unit capacity factors were as follows:



UnitCapacityFactorSalem Unit 199.1%Salem Unit 292.0%Hope Creek91.2%Peach Bottom Unit 299.3%Peach Bottom Unit 386.9%





No assurances can be given that these capacity factors will be achieved in the future.



¡Load Following Unitsoperate between 20% and 80% of the time. The operating costs are higher per unit of output due to lower efficiency and/or
the use of higher cost fuels such as oil, natural gas and, in some cases, coal. They operate less frequently than base load units and derive revenues from energy, capacity and ancillary services.



¡Peaking Unitsrun the least amount of time and utilize higher-priced fuels. These units operate less than 20% of the time. Costs per unit of
output tend to be much higher than for base load units. The majority of revenues are from capacity and ancillary service sales. The characteristics of these units enable them to capture energy revenues during periods of high energy prices.

In the energy markets in which we operate, owners of power plants specify to the ISO prices at which they
are prepared to generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. The ISOs will dispatch in merit order, calling on the lowest variable cost units first and dispatching progressively higher-cost
units until the point that the entire system demand for power (known as the system “load”) is satisfied. Base load units are dispatched first, with load following units next, followed by peaking units. The following chart depicts the merit
order of dispatch in PJM, where most of our generation units are located, based on illustrative historical dispatch cost. It should be noted that recent market price fluctuations have resulted in changes from historical norms, with lower gas prices
allowing some gas generation to displace some coal generation:



The bid price of the last unit dispatched by an ISO establishes the energy market-clearing price. After considering the
market-clearing price and the effect of transmission congestion and other factors, the ISO calculates the locational marginal pricing (LMP) for every location in the system. The ISO pays all units that are dispatched their respective LMP for each
MWh of energy produced, regardless of their specific bid prices. Since bids generally approximate the marginal cost of production, units with lower marginal costs typically generate higher operating profits than units with comparatively higher
marginal costs.

During periods when one or more parts of the transmission grid are operating at full capability, thereby resulting in a
constraint on the transmission system, it may not be possible to dispatch units in merit order







without violating transmission reliability standards. Under such circumstances, the ISO will dispatch higher- cost generation out of merit order within the congested area and power suppliers will
be paid an increased LMP in congested areas, reflecting the bid prices of those higher-cost generation units.

This method of determining
supply and pricing creates an environment in the markets such that natural gas prices often have a major impact on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong demand. Therefore, significant
changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into significant changes in the wholesale price of electricity. This can be seen in the graphs below which present historical annual spot prices and forward calendar prices as averaged over
each year.





Historical data and forward prices would imply that the price of natural gas will continue to have a strong influence on
the price of electricity in the primary markets in which Power operates.

The prices reflected in the tables above do not necessarily
illustrate our contract prices, but they are representative of market prices at relatively liquid hubs, with nearer-term forward pricing generally resulting from more liquid markets than pricing for later years. In addition, the prices do not
reflect locational differences resulting from congestion or other factors, which can be considerable. While these prices provide some perspective on past and future prices, the forward prices are highly volatile and there is no assurance that such
prices will remain in effect nor that we will be able to contract output at these forward prices.







Fuel Supply



•Nuclear Fuel Supply—To run our nuclear units we have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for:



¡purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride);



¡conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;



¡enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; and



¡fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies.



•Coal Supply—Coal is the primary fuel for our Hudson, Mercer, Keystone, Conemaugh and Bridgeport stations. We have contracts with
numerous suppliers. Coal is delivered to our units through a combination of rail, truck, barge or ocean shipments.

In order to minimize emissions levels, our Bridgeport 3 and Hudson 2 units use a specific type of coal obtained from Indonesia. If the supply from Indonesia or equivalent coal from other sources were not available for these facilities,
their near-term operations would be adversely impacted. In the longer-term, additional material capital expenditures would be required to modify our Bridgeport 3 station to enable it to operate using a broader mix of coal sources. We anticipate
completing the installation of pollution control equipment by the end of 2010 at our Hudson unit which will provide more flexibility in the types of coal we can use at that station.



•Gas Supply—Natural gas is the primary fuel for the bulk of our load following and peaking fleet. We purchase gas directly from
natural gas producers and marketers. These supplies are transported to New Jersey by four interstate pipelines with whom we have contracted. In addition, we have three firm gas transportation contracts to serve both of our Texas plants and have
recently contracted for a firm transportation service for our Bethlehem Energy Center (BEC) in New York.

We
have 1.2 billion cubic feet-per-day of firm transportation capacity under contract to meet the primary gas supply needs of our generation fleet and our obligations under the BGSS contract. We supplement that supply with a total storage capacity of
78 billion cubic feet.



•Oil—Oil is used as the primary fuel for two load following steam units and nine combustion turbine peaking units and can be used as
an alternate fuel by several load following and peaking units that have dual-fuel capability. Oil for operations is drawn from on-site storage and is generally purchased on the spot market and delivered by truck, barge or pipeline.

We expect to be able to meet the fuel supply demands of our customers and our own operations. However, the ability to
maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand, curtailments by suppliers, severe weather and other factors. For additional information, see Item 7.
MD&A—Overview of 2009 and Future Outlook and Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Markets and Market
Pricing

Power’s assets are located in four centralized, competitive electricity markets operated by ISO organizations all of which
are subject to the regulatory oversight of FERC or, in the case of ERCOT, the Texas Public Utility Commission:



•PJM Regional Transmission Organization—PJM conducts the largest centrally dispatched energy market in North America. It serves over
51 million people, nearly 17% of the total U.S. population and a peak demand of over 144,000 MW. The PJM Interconnection coordinates the movement of electricity through all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan,
New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. All of Power’s generating stations operate in PJM, except for the BEC, Guadalupe, Odessa, Bridgeport and New Haven stations.







•New York—The NY ISO is the market coordinator for New York State and is now responsible for managing the New York Power Pool and for
administering its energy marketplace. This service area has a population of about 19 million and a peak demand of over 33,900 MW. Power’s BEC station operates in New York.



•New England—ISO NE coordinates the movement of electricity in a region covering Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut
and Rhode Island. This service area has a population of about 14 million and a peak demand of over 28,000 MW. Power’s Bridgeport and New Haven stations operate in Connecticut.



•Texas—The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) manages the flow of electric power to Texas customers representing 85 percent of
the state’s electric load and 75 percent of the Texas land area. The ERCOT service area has a population of about 22 million and a peak demand of over 63,400 MW. As the ISO for the region, ERCOT schedules power on the electric grid.
Power’s Guadalupe and Odessa plants operate in ERCOT.

The price of electricity varies by location in each of these
markets. Depending upon our production and our obligations, these price differentials can serve to increase or decrease our profitability.

Commodity prices, such as electricity, gas, coal and emissions, as well as the availability of our diverse fleet of generation units to produce these products, also have a considerable effect on our profitability. These commodity prices
have been, and continue to be, subject to significant market volatility.

Since the majority of the power we generate has generally been
sourced from lower-cost nuclear and coal units, the rise in electric prices in recent years has yielded higher margins for us. Over a longer-term horizon, the higher the forward prices are, the more attractive an environment exists for us to
contract for the sale of our anticipated output. However, higher prices also increase the cost of replacement power, thereby placing us at risk should any of our generating units fail to function effectively or otherwise become unavailable.

In addition to energy sales, we also earn revenue from capacity payments for our assets in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S. These payments
are compensation for committing that a portion of our capacity be available to the ISO for dispatch at its discretion. Capacity payments reflect the value to the ISO of assurance that there is sufficient generating capacity available at all times to
meet system reliability and energy requirements. Currently, there is sufficient capacity in the markets in which we operate. However, in certain areas of these markets there are transmission system constraints, raising concerns about reliability and
creating a more acute need for capacity. Previously, some generators, including us, announced the retirement or potential retirement of certain older generating facilities due to insufficient revenues to support their continued operation. To enable
the continued availability of these facilities, in separate instances, both PJM and ISO-NE agreed to enter into Reliability-Must-Run (RMR) arrangements to compensate us for those units’ contribution to reliability.

In PJM and ISO-NE, where we operate most of our generation, the market design for capacity payments provides for a structured, forward-looking, transparent
capacity pricing mechanism. This is through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) in PJM and the Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in ISO-NE. These mechanisms provide greater clarity regarding the value of capacity, resulting in an improved pricing signal
to prospective investors in new generating facilities so as to encourage expansion of capacity to meet future market demands.







The prices to be received by generating units in PJM for capacity have been set through RPM base residual
auctions and depend upon the zone in which the generating unit is located. The majority of our PJM generating units are located in zones where the following prices have been set.



Delivery YearMW-daykW-yrJune 2008 to May 2009$148.80$54.31June 2009 to May 2010$191.32$69.83June 2010 to May 2011$174.29$63.62June 2011 to May 2012$110.00$40.16June 2012 to May 2013$139.73$51.70

The zone in which our Keystone
and Conemaugh units are located has experienced fewer constraints on its transmission system, and we have received prices lower than the prices for the rest of our PJM generating assets for periods through May of 2010. This is not the case for the
periods from June 2010 to May 2012 when identical prices were set for all zones. However, the most recent auction, for the 2012-2013 delivery year, once again resulted in differing prices for various areas of PJM, with Keystone and Conemaugh
receiving lower prices than the majority of our PJM generating units and our generating units in northern New Jersey receiving higher pricing.

The price that must be paid by an entity serving load in the various zones is also set through these auctions. These prices can be higher or lower than the prices noted in the table above due to import and export capability to and from
lower-priced areas.

Like PJM and ISO-NE, the NYISO provides capacity payments to its generating units, but unlike these other two markets, the
New York market does not provide a forward price signal beyond a six month auction period.

On a prospective basis, many factors will affect
the capacity pricing, including but not limited to:



•changes in load and demand;



•changes in the available amounts of demand response resources;



•changes in available generating capacity (including retirements, additions, derates, forced outage rates, etc.);



•increases in transmission capability between zones; and



•changes to the pricing mechanism, including potentially increasing the number of zones to create more pricing sensitivity to changes in supply and
demand, as well as other potential changes that PJM may propose over time.

For additional information on our collection of
RMR payments in PJM and ISO-NE and the RPM and FCM proposals, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.

Hedging
Strategy

In an attempt to mitigate volatility in our results, we seek to contract in advance for a significant portion of our anticipated
electric output, capacity and fuel needs. We seek to sell a portion of our anticipated lower-cost nuclear and coal-fired generation over a multi-year forward horizon, normally over a period of two to three years. We believe this hedging strategy
increases stability of earnings.

Among the ways in which we hedge our output are: (1) sales at PJM West and (2) BGS contracts. Sales
at PJM West reflect block energy sales at the liquid PJM Western Hub and other transactions that seek to secure price certainty for our generation related products. In addition, the BGS-Fixed Price contract, a full requirements contract that
includes energy and capacity, ancillary and other services, is awarded for three-year periods through an auction process managed by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The volume of BGS contracts and the electric utilities that our
generation operations will serve vary from year to year.







Pricing for the BGS contracts for recent and future periods by purchasing utility, including a capacity component, is as follows:



Load Zone ($/MWh)2006-20092007-20102008-20112009-20122010-2013PSE&G$102.51$98.88$111.50$103.72$95.77Jersey Central Power and Light$100.44$99.64$114.09$103.51$95.17Atlantic City Electric$103.99$99.59$116.50$105.36$98.56Rockland Electric Company$111.14$109.99$120.49$112.70$103.32

A portion of our total capacity
is hedged through the BGS auctions. On average, tranches won in the BGS auctions require 100 MW to 120 MW of capacity on a daily basis.

We
have obtained price certainty for all of our PJM and New England capacity through May 2013 through the RPM and FCM pricing mechanisms.

To support our contracted sales of
energy, we entered into contracts for the future purchase and delivery of nuclear fuel and coal, which include some market-based pricing components. As of February 15, 2010, we had contracted for the following percentages of our nuclear and
coal generation output and related fuel supplies for the next three years with modest amounts beyond 2012.



Nuclear and Coal Generation201020112012Generation Sales90%-95%50%-60%15%-30%Nuclear Fuel Purchases100%100%100%Coal Supply and Transportation Costs95%-100%30%-40%5%-10%

We take a more opportunistic
approach in hedging our anticipated natural gas-fired generation. The generation from these units is less predictable, as these units are generally dispatched when aggregate market demand has exceeded the supply provided by lower-cost units. The
natural gas-fired units have generally provided a lower contribution to our margin than either the nuclear or coal units, although recent market price dynamics of coal and gas moderated this historical relationship for 2009.

In a changing market environment, this hedging strategy may cause our realized prices to differ materially from current market prices. In a rising price
environment, this strategy normally results in lower margins than would have been the case if little or no hedging activity had been conducted. Alternatively, in a falling price environment, this hedging strategy will tend to create margins higher
than those implied by the then current market.







PSE&G

Our public utility, PSE&G,
distributes electric energy and gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 5.5 million people, or about 70% of the State’s population, reside.



Products and Services

Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the transmission and distribution of electricity and the distribution of gas.



•Transmission—is the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then
reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the FERC.



•Distribution—is the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer’s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for
these services are based upon tariffs approved by the BPU.

We also earn margins through non-tariff competitive services,
such as appliance repair services. The commodity supply portion of our utility business’ electric and gas sales are managed by BGS and BGSS suppliers. Pricing for those services are set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for
our utility operations.

In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to improve efficiencies
in customer energy use and increase the level of renewable generation including:



•a program to help finance the installation of 81 MW of solar power systems throughout our electric service area,



•a program to develop, own and operate 80 MW of solar power systems over four years, and



•a set of energy efficiency programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and money saving measures directly to
businesses and families.

For additional information concerning these programs and the components of our tariffs, see
Regulatory Issues.







How PSE&G Operates

We provide network transmission and point-to-point transmission services, which are coordinated with PJM, and provide distribution service to 2.1 million electric customers and 1.7 million gas
customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most heavily populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and
approximately 300 suburban and rural communities.

Transmission

We use formula rates for our existing and future transmission investments. Formula-type rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner
annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula which considers Operations and Maintenance expenditures, Rate Base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of
capital. Currently, approved rates provide for a ROE of 11.68% on existing and new transmission investment. FERC has also approved incentive rate treatment for two new transmission lines, which when added to the approved base ROE, will yield a ROE
of 12.93% for these projects. We will also earn this ROE on Construction Work In Progress (CWIP) dollars spent on these projects.



Transmission StatisticsDecember 31, 2009Historical AnnualGrowth 2005-2009Network Circuit MilesBilling Peak (MW)1,4429,6870.50%

For more information on current
transmission construction activities, see Regulatory Issues, Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation.

Distribution

Our primary business is the distribution of gas and electricity to end users in our service territory. Our
load requirements were split during 2009 among residential, commercial and industrial customers, described below. We believe that we have all the non-exclusive franchise rights (including consents) necessary for our electric and gas distribution
operations in the territory we serve.



% of 2009 SalesCustomer TypeElectricGasCommercial58%36%Residential31%60%Industrial11%4%Total100%100%

While our customer base has remained steady, electric and gas
load has declined, as illustrated:



Electric and Gas Distribution StatisticsDecember 31, 2009Historical AnnualLoad Growth2005-2009Number ofCustomersElectric Sales and GasSold and TransportedElectric2.1 Million41,961 GWh-0.6%Gas1.7 Million3,500 Million Therms-0.4%





Supply

Although commodity revenues make up more than 60% of our revenues, we make no profit on the supply of energy since the actual costs are passed through to our customers.

All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their own electric energy and/or gas supplier. However, pursuant to BPU requirements,
we serve as the supplier of last resort for electric and gas customers within our service territory who have not chosen another supplier. As a practical matter, this means we are obligated to provide supply to a vast majority of residential
customers and a smaller portion of commercial and industrial customers.

We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through two
concurrent auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey’s
electric distribution companies (EDCs). Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set.

We procure the supply
requirements of our default service gas customers (BGSS) through a full requirements contract with Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made
annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in
future rates. Commercial and industrial customers that do not have third party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts.

Markets and Market Pricing

There continues to be significant volatility in commodity prices. Such volatility can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and
gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for both electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs may be deferred under our regulated rate
structure. A declining commodity price on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. For additional information see Item 7. MD&A.

Energy Holdings

With the transfer of the two Texas generation facilities to Power in October 2009 and the sale of almost all of our investments in international generation and distribution over the past few years, our focus at Energy Holdings is on
managing our portfolio of leveraged lease investments and domestic generation investments. Through Energy Holdings, we are also pursuing solar and other renewable generation projects, as discussed below. For additional information on Energy Holdings
generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Products and Services

The majority of our $1.6 billion in leveraged lease investments are energy-related. As of December 31, 2009, the single largest lease investment
represented 20% of total leveraged leases.

Our leasing portfolio is designed to provide a fixed rate of return. Leveraged lease investments
involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance
comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long-term financing to the transaction secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long-term financing is non-recourse to the lessor and, with respect to our lease
investments, is not presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The lessor acquires economic and tax ownership of the asset and then leases
it to the lessee for a period of time no greater than 80% of its remaining useful life. As the owner, the lessor is entitled to depreciate the asset under applicable federal and state tax guidelines. The lessor receives income from lease payments
made by the lessee during the term of the lease and from tax benefits associated with interest and depreciation deductions with respect to the leased property. Our ability to realize these tax benefits is dependent on operating gains







generated by our other operating subsidiaries and allocated pursuant to the consolidated tax sharing agreement between us and our operating subsidiaries.

Lease rental payments are unconditional obligations of the lessee and are set at levels at least sufficient to service the non-recourse lease debt. The
lessor is also entitled to any residual value associated with the leased asset at the end of the lease term. An evaluation of the after-tax cash flows to the lessor determines the return on the investment. Under GAAP, the lease investment is
recorded net of non-recourse debt and income is recognized as a constant return on the net unrecovered investment.

For additional information
on leases, including the credit, tax and accounting risks related to certain lessees, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Energy Holdings, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk—Credit Risk—Energy Holdings and Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Our domestic generation projects in
California, Hawaii and New Hampshire, totaling 358 MW, are contracted under long-term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs).

Energy Holdings has
developed a 2 MW solar project in western New Jersey, currently in service, and acquired two additional solar projects of 27 MW, currently under construction in Florida and Ohio. Completion of the Florida and Ohio projects is expected by the end of
2010. The total investment for the three projects will be approximately $114 million.

In August 2008, we invested in a joint venture to
license compressed air energy storage (CAES) technology. CAES technology stores energy in the form of compressed air which can later be released to generate electricity through specialized turbine equipment. This technology could be used to optimize
an intermittent energy source, such as wind, by storing energy at night and releasing this stored energy during the day when customers need power. This technology can also be utilized to augment the capacity of Combined Cycle Gas Turbines, returning
the units closer to their nameplate capacity when they are encountering reductions due to ambient conditions.

In October 2008, the New Jersey
Office of Clean Energy (OCE) awarded a $4 million grant to a joint venture owned equally by us and an unaffiliated private developer, to advance the development of a 350 MW wind site to be located approximately 16 miles off the shore of southern New
Jersey. An offshore wind site has not yet been developed and constructed in the U.S. Numerous issues, including federal and state permitting, environmental impacts, power output sale arrangements, construction approach and expected maintenance
costs, will need to be resolved in order to successfully develop such a project.

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

Power

Various market participants compete
with us and one another in buying and selling in wholesale power pools, entering into bilateral contracts and selling to aggregated retail customers. Our competitors include:



•merchant generators,



•domestic and multi-national utility generators,



•energy marketers,



•banks, funds and other financial entities,



•fuel supply companies, and



•affiliates of other industrial companies.

New additions of lower cost or more efficient generation capacity could make our plants less economical in the future. Although it is not clear if this capacity will be built or, if so, what the economic
impact will be, such additions could impact market prices and our competitiveness.

Our business is also under competitive pressure due to
demand side management (DSM) and other efficiency efforts aimed at changing the quantity and patterns of usage by consumers which could result in a reduction in







load requirements. A reduction in load requirements can also be caused by economic cycles and factors. It is also possible that advances in technology, such as distributed generation, will reduce
the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most central station electric production. To the extent that additions to the transmission system relieve or reduce congestion in eastern PJM where
most of our plants are located, our revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules governing transmission planning or cost allocation could also impact our revenues.

We are also at risk if one or more states in which we operate should decide to turn away from competition and allow regulated utilities to own or reacquire and operate generating stations in a regulated
and potentially uneconomic manner, or to encourage rate-based construction of new generating units. This has occurred in certain states. The lack of consistent rules in energy markets can negatively impact the competitiveness of our plants. Also,
regional inconsistencies in environmental regulations, particularly those related to emissions, have put some of our plants which are located in the Northeast, where rules are more stringent, at an economic disadvantage compared to our competitors
in certain Midwest states.

Environmental issues, such as restrictions on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and other pollutants, may also have a competitive impact on
us to the extent that it becomes more expensive for some of our plants to remain compliant, thus affecting our ability to be a lower-cost provider compared to competitors without such restrictions. While our generation fleet is relatively
low-emitting, additional restrictions could have a negative impact on certain of our units, including our coal units.

In addition, pressures
from renewable resources, such as wind and solar, could increase over time, especially if government incentive programs continue to grow. For example, over the past several years, a sizable amount of wind generation capacity has been constructed in
ERCOT, particularly in western Texas, which has impacted our Odessa generation facility located in that area. Given the favorable wind conditions in western Texas, these wind generation facilities are able to produce power during a substantial
period of the year, resulting in an additional source of generation, especially during off-peak seasons. Numerous competitors have announced plans to build substantial amounts of new wind generation capacity in the western part of Texas, where power
demand is relatively low, but there are transmission constraints in the ability to get power to the load centers. The Public Utility Commission of Texas is attempting to address the constraint issue, but it is not clear if these efforts at
transmission expansion will be successful or, if so, what the economic impact will be. As a result of such potential transmission expansion, it is possible that additional amounts of wind generation may be built in ERCOT, potentially impacting
market prices and our competitiveness.

PSE&G

The transmission and distribution business has minimal risks from competitors. Our transmission and distribution business is minimally impacted when customers choose alternate electric or gas suppliers
since we earn our return by providing transmission and distribution service, not by supplying the commodity. The demand for electric energy and gas by customers is affected by customer conservation, economic conditions, weather and other factors not
within our control.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 10,352 employees in the following companies, including 6,627 covered under collective bargaining agreements.



Employees as of December 31, 2009PowerPSE&GEnergyHoldingsServicesNon-Union1,3451,325201,035Union1,5615,057—9Total Employees2,9066,382201,044Number of Union Groups35n/a1

All of our collective bargaining
agreements, except one will expire on April 30, 2013 or later. The one exception is an agreement at PSE&G that covers 1,218 employees. This agreement expires on April 30, 2011.







REGULATORY ISSUES

Federal Regulation

FERC

FERC is an independent federal agency that regulates the transmission of electric energy and gas in interstate commerce and the sale of
electric energy and gas at wholesale pursuant to the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the Natural Gas Act. PSE&G, Power’s generation and energy trading subsidiaries and one subsidiary of Energy Holdings are public utilities as defined by the
FPA. FERC has extensive oversight over “public utilities” as defined by the FPA. FERC approval is usually required when a “public utility” company seeks to: sell or acquire an asset that is regulated by FERC (such as a
transmission line or a generating station); collect costs from customers associated with a new transmission facility; charge a rate for wholesale sales under a contract or tariff; or engage in certain mergers and internal corporate reorganizations.

FERC also regulates generating facilities known as qualifying facilities (QFs). QFs are cogeneration facilities that produce electricity and
another form of useful thermal energy, or small power production facilities where the primary energy source is renewable, biomass, waste, or geothermal resources. QFs must meet certain ownership, operating and efficiency criteria established by
FERC. We own various QFs through Energy Holdings. QFs are subject to many, but not all, of the same FERC requirements as public utilities.

FERC also regulates ISOs, such as PJM, and their energy and capacity markets.

For us, the major effects of FERC regulation fall into
five general categories:



•Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Energy Clearing Prices



•Capacity Market Issues



•Transmission Regulation



•Compliance

Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Market Power—Under FERC regulations, public utilities must receive FERC authorization to sell power in interstate commerce. They can
sell power at cost-based rates or apply to FERC for authority to make market based rate (MBR) sales. For a requesting company to receive MBR authority, FERC must first make a determination that the requesting company lacks market power in the
relevant markets. FERC requires that holders of MBR tariffs file an update every three years demonstrating that they continue to lack market power.

PSE&G and certain subsidiaries of Power and Energy Holdings have received MBR authority from FERC. Retention of MBR authority is critical to the maintenance of our generation business’ revenues.

Under MBR rules, FERC may look at sub-markets to analyze whether a company possesses market power. Applying these rules in
October 2008, FERC granted PSE&G, PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC and PSEG Power Connecticut LLC continued MBR authority and granted both PSEG Fossil LLC and PSEG Nuclear LLC initial MBR authority. Each of these companies will be
required to file for continuation of its MBR authority by the end of 2010.



•Cost-Based RMR Agreements—FERC has permitted public utility generation owners to enter into RMR agreements that provide cost-based
compensation to a generation owner when a unit proposed for retirement is asked to continue operating for reliability purposes. Our Hudson 1 generating station is currently operating under an RMR agreement which expires September 2011.



•In ISO-NE, many owners of generation facilities have also filed for RMR treatment. We currently collect FERC-approved monthly payments for the
Bridgeport Harbor Station Unit 2 and the New Haven Harbor Station. These agreements are scheduled to expire in June 2010.







RMR treatment has enabled these units to continue to operate. Various parties have
challenged the continuation of RMR payments in ISO-NE and, thus, there is risk that such payments may be terminated prior to the end of the current contract terms.



•Reactive Power—Reactive power encompasses certain ancillary services necessary to maintain voltage support and operate the system.
In 2008, we filed a reactive power Tariff with FERC, which was subsequently approved. Under this Tariff, we receive $28.5 million annually as compensation for the provision of reactive power.

Energy Clearing Prices

Energy clearing prices in the markets in which we operate are generally based on bids submitted by generating units. Under FERC-approved rules, bids are subject to price caps and mitigation rules applicable to certain generation units. FERC
rules also govern the overall design of these markets. At present, all units receive a single clearing price based on the bid of the marginal unit (i.e. the last unit that must be dispatched to serve the needs of load). These FERC rules have a
direct impact on the energy prices received by our units.

Capacity Markets

PJM, NYISO, and ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have been approved by FERC.

RPM is a locational installed capacity market design for the PJM region, including a forward auction for installed capacity. Under RPM, generators located in constrained areas within PJM are paid more for
their capacity as an incentive to ensure adequate supply where generation capacity is most needed. PJM’s RPM and related FERC orders establishing prices paid to us and other generators as a result of RPM’s transitional auctions are being
challenged in court by various state public utility commissions, including the BPU. These legal actions remain pending. Moreover, the mechanics of RPM in PJM continue to evolve and be refined in stakeholder proceedings in which we are active.

Pursuant to a settlement that established the design of ISO-NE’s market for installed capacity and which is being implemented gradually
over a four-year period that commenced in December 2006, all generators in New England began receiving fixed capacity payments that escalate gradually over the transition period. The market design consists of a forward-looking auction for installed
capacity that is intended to recognize the locational value of generators on the system and contains incentive mechanisms to encourage generator availability during generation shortages. As in PJM, capacity market rules in the ISO-NE continue to
develop. ISO-NE is expected to be filing soon with FERC to establish market rules for the fourth FCM auction to be held in August 2010.

NYISO
operates a short-term capacity market that provides a forward price signal only for six months into the future. The NYISO capacity model recognizes only two separate zones that potentially may separate in price: New York City and Long Island.
Discussions concerning potential changes to NYISO capacity markets are also ongoing.

Capacity market rules in all of these markets may change
in the future.

Transmission Regulation

FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to establish the rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate transmission. We currently have FERC-approved formula rates in effect to recover the costs of our
transmission facilities. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are then trued up the following year to reflect actual annual
expenses/capital expenditures. Our allowed ROE is 11.68% for both existing and new transmission investments, and we have received incentive rates, affording a higher ROE, for large scale transmission investments. In October 2009, PSE&G filed its
2010 transmission rates with FERC and the rates became effective January 1, 2010. On February 2, 2010 FERC issued an order accepting our filing. The update provides for approximately $23 million in increased revenues as part of our 2010
transmission rates.



•Transmission Expansion—In June 2007, PJM identified the need for the construction of the Susquehanna-Roseland line, a new 500 kV
transmission line intended to maintain the reliability of the electrical grid serving New Jersey customers. PJM assigned construction responsibility for the new line







to us and PPL for the New Jersey and Pennsylvania portions of the project, respectively. The estimated cost of our portion of this construction project is approximately $750 million, and PJM has
directed that the line be placed into service by June 2012. On February 11, 2010, PSE&G received approval from the BPU to construct the New Jersey portion of the project. Additional approvals remain pending. For further discussion, see
State Regulation—Energy Policy—Susquehanna-Roseland BPU Petition.

Construction of the
Susquehanna-Roseland line is contingent upon obtaining all necessary federal, state, municipal and landowner permits and approvals. The construction of the line has encountered local opposition. Should the line be cancelled for reasons beyond our
control, we will be entitled to recover 100% of prudently-incurred abandonment costs.

In December 2008, PJM approved another
500 kV transmission project, originating in Branchburg and ending in Hudson County, New Jersey. This project is still in the design phase and will require the receipt of numerous regulatory approvals prior to construction. In October 2009, we filed
a petition with FERC seeking incentive rates for the planned project. In December 2009, FERC granted our request for incentive rate treatment. We will receive a ROE adder of 125 basis points above its base ROE, recovery of one hundred percent of
Construction Work in Progress in rate base and authorization to recover 100% of all prudently-incurred development and construction costs if the project is abandoned or cancelled, in whole or in part, for reasons beyond our control. The estimated
cost of the project is approximately $1.1 billion. PJM has specified a June 2013 in-service date for this project.



•U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Congestion Study, National Interest Electric Transmission Corridors and FERC Back-Stop Siting
Authority—By virtue of the Energy Policy Act, the DOE has the ability to designate transmission corridors in areas found to be critical congestion areas, which then gives FERC the ability to site transmission projects within these
corridors should certain events occur.

In October 2007, the DOE acted to designate transmission corridors
within these critical congestion areas. One of the designated corridors is the Mid-Atlantic Area National Corridor which includes New Jersey, most of Pennsylvania and New York. Thus, entities seeking to build transmission within the Mid-Atlantic
Area Corridor may be able to use FERC’s back-stop siting authority under certain circumstances, if necessary, to site transmission, including the Susquehanna-Roseland line. In February 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth
Circuit issued a decision that would narrow the scope of FERC’s back-stop siting authority. The United States Supreme Court has declined to review this decision. The DOE is required by statute to issue a new congestion study in 2010.



•PJM Transmission Rate Design—In 2007, FERC addressed the issue of how transmission rates, paid by PJM transmission customers and
ultimately paid by our retail customers, should be designed in PJM. FERC ruled that the cost of new high voltage (500 kV and above) transmission facilities in PJM would be regionalized and paid for by all transmission customers on a pro-rata basis,
which share is calculated annually based upon a zone’s load ratio share within PJM. For all existing facilities, costs would be allocated using the pre-existing zonal rate design. For new lower voltage transmission facilities, costs would be
allocated using a “beneficiary pays” approach. This FERC decision was subsequently upheld on rehearing but was then appealed by other parties to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

In August 2009, the Court ruled that with respect to new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned facilities, FERC had not adequately justified
its decision to regionalize these costs. Certain parties sought rehearing of the Court’s decision, which requests have been denied. The case has now been remanded to FERC for further proceedings. FERC has established procedures for review of
this issue. The current allocation for new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned projects may remain in place or could be modified by FERC.

Compliance



•Reliability Standards—Congress has required FERC to put in place, through the North American Electric Reliability
Council (NERC), national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability







of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. Many reliability standards have been developed and approved. These standards apply both to
reliability of physical assets interconnected to the bulk power system and to the protection of critical cyber assets. Since these standards are mandatory and applicable to, among other entities, transmission owners and generation owners and
operators, we are obligated to comply with the standards and to ensure continuing compliance. Our Texas and California generation assets, as well as PSE&G, have already undergone formal audits, and our generation assets in PJM will be audited in
2011. In addition, many of our operating companies have been subject to spot audits. NERC compliance represents a significant area of compliance responsibility for us. As a result of a PSE&G audit, NERC has assessed a penalty of five thousand
dollars with respect to a potential violation of one NERC standard. This penalty is now pending at FERC.



•FERC Standards of Conduct—In October 2008, FERC issued a revised rule governing the interaction between transmission provider (i.e.
PSE&G) employees and wholesale merchant employees (housed largely in Power), which revises FERC’s Standards of Conduct by abandoning the “corporate” separation approach to regulating these interactions and instead adopting an
“employee function” approach, which focuses on an individual employee’s job functions in determining how the rules will apply. The effect of these rules will be to permit more affiliate communication with respect to corporate and
strategic planning, to loosen restrictions on senior officers and directors and to permit necessary operational communications between those employees engaged in transmission system operations and planning and those employees engaged in generating
plant operations. In October 2009, FERC revised these rules to further define which employees are covered by the rules. Because of the rules’ focus on employee functions, all of our FERC regulated companies will need to continue to monitor
developments in this area.



•Market Behavior/Anti-Manipulation Rules—FERC has rules in place to govern the behavior of participants in the wholesale energy
markets that it regulates. These rules prohibit such participants from engaging in certain types of transactions, such as withholding generating capacity to artificially increase prices, engaging in wash trades and providing erroneous or misleading
information to, or withholding material information from, Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO)/ISOs. FERC’s anti-manipulation rules are broadly written and are intended to prevent market participants from engaging in fraudulent conduct in
FERC regulated markets. These rules are now very much a focus of FERC’s compliance efforts, and during the last year, FERC has imposed significant monetary penalties on market participants found to be in violation of the rules. All of our
companies that do business in FERC regulated markets, such as PSE&G and subsidiaries of Power, must comply with these rules.







Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

Our operation of nuclear generating facilities is subject to comprehensive regulation by the NRC, a federal agency established to regulate nuclear activities
to ensure protection of public health and safety, as well as the security and protection of the environment. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental
requirements. Continuous demonstration to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements is also necessary. The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. In August 2009, we submitted applications
to extend the operating licenses of our Salem and Hope Creek facilities by 20 years. No parties have requested a hearing or intervention and the initial filing deadline for such a request as part of the NRC license renewal process has passed. The
NRC is expected to spend up to 30 months to review our applications before making a decision. The current operating licenses of our nuclear facilities expire in the years shown below:





UnitYearSalem Unit 12016Salem Unit 22020Hope Creek2026Peach Bottom Unit 22033Peach Bottom Unit 32034

State Regulation

Since our operations are primarily located within New Jersey, our principal state regulator is the BPU, which oversees electric and
natural gas distribution companies in New Jersey. Our utility operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of retail electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance and sale
of certain types of securities and compliance matters. BPU regulation can also have a direct or indirect impact on our power generation business as it relates to energy supply agreements and energy policy in New Jersey.

We are also subject to some state regulation in California, Connecticut, Hawaii, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania and Texas due to our ownership of
generation and/or transmission facilities in those states.

Rates



•Electric and Gas Base Rates—We must file electric and gas rate cases with the BPU in order to change our utility base distribution
rates. The BPU also has authority to adjust rates downward if it finds that the rates it approved are no longer just and reasonable. In May 2009, we petitioned the BPU for an increase in electric and gas base rates. We filed an update in January
2010 requesting an increase of $148 million and $74 million for electric and gas, respectively. The matter is pending with a decision expected in the first half of 2010. No assurances can be given regarding the outcome of this proceeding.







•Rate Adjustment Clauses—In addition to base rates, we recover certain costs from customers pursuant to mechanisms, known as
adjustment clauses. These clauses permit, at set intervals, the flow-through of costs to customers related to specific programs, outside the context of base rate case proceedings. Recovery of these costs are subject to BPU approval. Costs associated
with these clauses are deferred when incurred and amortized to expense when recovered in revenues. Delays in the pass-through of costs under these clauses can result in significant changes in cash flow. Our Societal Benefits Charges (SBC) and
Non-utility Generation Charges (NGC) clauses are detailed in the following table:



Rate Clause2009 Revenue(Over) Under RecoveredBalanceas of December 31, 2009MillionsEnergy Efficiency and Renewable Energy$197$(4)Remediation Adjustment Charges (RAC)18137USF1798Social Programs5447Total SBC448188NGC10286Total$550$274

SBC—The SBC is a mechanism designed to ensure recovery of costs associated with
activities required to be accomplished to achieve specific government-mandated public policy determinations. The programs that are covered by the SBC (gas and electric) are energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, Manufactured Gas Plant
Remediation Adjustment Charge (RAC) and the Universal Service Fund (USF). In addition, the electric SBC includes a Social Programs component. All components include interest on both over and under recoveries.

NGC—The NGC recovers the above market costs associated with the long-term power purchase contracts with non-utility
generators approved by the BPU.

Recent Rate Adjustments

USF/Lifeline— The USF is an energy assistance program mandated by the BPU under state law to provide payment assistance to
low-income customers. The Lifeline program is a separately mandated energy assistance program to provide payment assistance to elderly and disabled customers. In October 2009, revised rates were put in place. Our USF rates will recover $75 million
and $38 million for electric and gas, respectively. Our Lifeline rates will recover $29 million and $16 million for electric and gas, respectively. We earn no margin on the collection of the USF or Lifeline programs, resulting in no impact on Net
Income.

SBC/NGC—In February 2009, we filed a petition requesting a decrease in our electric SBC/NGC rates
of $18.9 million and an increase in gas SBC rates of $3.7 million. In July 2009, a revision was filed requesting an increase in SBC/NGC rates of $104 million and $15 million for electric and gas, respectively. The electric increase was due to
increased non-utility generation (NUG) contract costs. We expect an initial decision from the Administrative Law Judge in March and a BPU order in April 2010. No assurances can be provided as to the outcome of these proceedings.

RAC— In November 2009, we filed a RAC 17 petition with the BPU requesting an increase in electric and gas RAC rates of
approximately $13.4 million and $10.5 million, respectively. This matter was transferred to the Office of Administrative Law.

Energy Supply



•BGS—New Jersey’s EDCs provide two types of BGS, the default electric supply service for customers who do not have a third party
supplier. The first type, which represents about 80% of PSE&G’s load







requirements, provides default supply service for smaller industrial and commercial customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Fixed
Price). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM
real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-CIEP).

All of New Jersey’s EDCs jointly
procure the supply to meet their BGS obligations through two concurrent auctions authorized each year by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which
energy suppliers provide BGS to New Jersey’s EDCs. PSE&G earns no margin on the provision of BGS.

PSE&G’s
total BGS-Fixed Price eligible load is expected to be approximately 8,500 MW. Approximately one-third of this load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. Current pricing is as follows:



200720082009201036 Month Term EndingMay 2010May 2011May 2012May 2013Load (MW)2,7582,8002,9002,800$ per kWh$0.09888$0.11150$0.10372$0.09577



(a)Prices set in the February 2010 BGS Auction are effective on June 1, 2010 when the 36-month (May 2010) supply agreements expire.

In December 2009, the BPU decided that, after the 2010 BGS auction, it would hold a technical conference to
consider enhancements to the BGS auction. Any action taken in response to that hearing is likely to be implemented for the BGS auctions in 2011 or future years. The BPU may address many issues, including the impact of potential
development of incremental generation in New Jersey. No assurances can be provided as to the outcome of these proceedings.

For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.



•BGSS—BGSS is the mechanism approved by the BPU designed to recover all gas costs related to the supply for residential customers.
BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE&G’s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by
September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time.

PSE&G has a full requirements contract through March 2012 with Power to meet the supply requirements of default service gas customers.
Power charges PSE&G for gas commodity costs which PSE&G recovers from customers. Any difference between rates charged by Power under the BGSS contract and rates charged to PSE&G’s residential customers are deferred and collected or
refunded through adjustments in future rates. PSE&G earns no margin on the provision of BGSS.

In May 2009, PSE&G made
its annual BGSS filing with the BPU. The filing requested a decrease in annual BGSS revenue of $133 million, excluding Sales and Use Tax, to be effective October 1, 2009. This represents a reduction of approximately 7% for a typical residential
gas heating customer. The BPU approved the new lower BGSS rate on September 16, 2009 and it became effective immediately.

Energy Policy



•New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP)—New Jersey law requires that an EMP be developed every three years, the purpose of which is to
ensure safe, secure and reasonably-priced energy supply, foster economic growth and development and protect the environment. The most recent EMP was finalized in October 2008. The plan identifies a number of the actions to improve energy efficiency,
increase the use of renewable resources, ensure a reliable supply of energy and stimulate investment in clean energy







technologies. Given the gubernatorial change in New Jersey, it is unclear what changes to the EMP and its policy goals may result.

We have approval from the BPU to implement several programs addressing different components of the EMP goals to improve efficiencies in
customer use and increase the level of renewable generation in New Jersey.



•Solar Initiatives—In order to spur investment in solar power in New Jersey and meet energy goals under the EMP we have undertaken
two major initiatives at PSE&G. The first program helps finance the installation of 81 MW of solar systems throughout our electric service area by providing loans to customers. The first part of this initiative was a pilot program approved by
the BPU in April 2008. The program was expanded beyond its pilot phase in December 2009. The program is similar to the original pilot program, but it is available only for systems up to 500kW. The borrowers can repay the loans over a period of
either 10 years (for residential customer loans) or 15 years (for non-residential customers), by providing us with solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs) or cash. The value of the SRECs towards the repayment of the loan is guaranteed to be not
less than a floor price. SRECs received by us in repayment of the loan are sold through a periodic auction. Proceeds will be used to offset program costs.

The total investment of both phases of the Solar Loan Program will be approximately $248 million once the program is fully subscribed,
projects are built and loans are closed. As of December 31, 2009, we have provided $43 million in loans for 53 projects representing 11.6 MW.

The second solar initiative is the Solar 4 All Program that was approved by the BPU in July 2009. Under this program, we are investing approximately $515 million to develop 80 MW of utility-owned solar
photovoltaic (PV) systems over four years. The program consists of systems 500kW or greater installed on PSE&G-owned property (25 MW), solar panels installed on distribution system poles (40 MW) and PV systems installed on third-party sites in
our electric service territory (15 MW). We will sell the energy and capacity from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition we will sell the SRECs received from the projects through the same auction used in the loan program.
Proceeds from these sales will be used to offset program costs.

As of December 31, 2009, 1 MW of solar panels had been
installed on distribution poles. On January 6, 2010, we announced that we had entered into contracts with four developers for 12 MW of solar capacity to be developed on land we own in Edison, Linden, Trenton and Hamilton. The projects represent
an investment of approximately $50 million. Construction is expected to start this spring pending receipt of all approvals.



•Demand Response (DR)—In 2008 the BPU directed that DR programs be implemented by each of New Jersey’s electric utilities and
established targets to increase DR by a total of 600 MW by the end of the third year, with our responsibility being 55% of the total (330 MW). We filed our program proposal and identified $93.4 million of demand response investment over a period of
four years, seeking full recovery of the program costs, including a return on our investment, through rates.

In July 2009, the BPU approved a portion of our program that focuses on air conditioning load control in the residential and small commercial customer segments. The investment represents $65.3 million with a target of 150 MW to be achieved.
The remaining portion of our filing is awaiting further action by the BPU, but no timetable has been established to complete the proceeding. As of December 31, 2009, we had installed approximately 1.2 MW.

Also in 2008, the BPU directed each of the State’s electric utilities to administer a one-year program designed to develop an additional
600 MW of DR resources. The utilities’ role was to collect funding through rates and make payments to Curtailable Service Providers who signed up the new or incremental DR resources. The incentive was set by the BPU at $22.50/MW-day with a
statewide budget of $4.9 million. Our share was set at 59.54%, or 195 MW, with a budget of $3.4 million. Funding for the program, called the Demand Response Working Group Modified Program, was







collected through a component of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) Adjustment Clause in 2009. We anticipate paying approximately $1.1 million in February 2010 for the 132 MW verified
by PJM.



•Energy Efficiency Initiatives—We have been approved by the BPU to implement two energy efficiency initiatives, both of which were
filed under New Jersey’s RGGI legislation, which encourages utilities to invest in conservation and energy efficiency programs as part of their regulated business. Both initiatives are intended to help New Jersey meet its EMP goal of reducing
energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to help improve New Jersey’s economy through the creation of new jobs through the promotion of energy efficiency.



¡Carbon Abatement Program—The BPU approved our proposal to invest up to $46 million over four years on a small scale carbon abatement
program across specific customer segments. New rates were effective on January 1, 2009. For each year of the program we will file a petition on October 1st to set forth the calculation of the electric and gas recovery charges for the
subsequent year. The BPU approved a rate increase in December 2009, which will result in a net annual revenue increase of $1.9 million in 2010.



¡Energy Efficiency Economic Stimulus Program—In July 2009, the BPU approved our energy efficiency program developed to stimulate
economic growth in the state. Under this program, we anticipate approximately $190 million in energy efficiency expenditures over an 18 month period. The program provides for a charge for recovery of program expenditures plus an allowed return.

The energy efficiency initiatives target multiple customer segments. Subprograms provide energy audits and
incentives for energy retrofit services to homes and small businesses in Urban Enterprise Zone municipalities, multi-family buildings, hospitals, data centers and governmental entities. Other initiative components include funding for new
technologies and demonstration projects, and a program to encourage non-residential customers to reduce energy use through improvements in the operation and maintenance of their facilities.



•Capital Economic Stimulus Infrastructure Program—In January 2009, we filed for approval of a capital economic stimulus
infrastructure investment program. Under this initiative, we proposed to undertake $698 million of capital infrastructure investments over a 24 month period. The goal of these accelerated capital investments is to help improve the State’s
economy through the creation of new jobs. This filing was made in response to the Governor of New Jersey’s proposal to help revive the economy through job growth and capital spending.

In April 2009, the BPU approved a settlement agreement which identified 38 qualifying projects totaling $694 million. These projects are
expected to create more than 900 new jobs. We received the BPU’s written order effective May 1, 2009, which provides increases of $7 million for electric and $12 million for gas rates annually. Under the program, new Capital Adjustment
Charges (CAC) will provide for immediate recovery of a return on program expenditures plus depreciation of the assets. The CAC will be adjusted each January based on forecasted program expenditures and will be subject to deferred accounting. The
rates are subject to annual adjustments based on actual expenditures and market conditions.

In November 2009, PSE&G made a
filing in the above-referenced matter, requesting approximately $35 million for electric and $17 million for gas in revenue, on an annual basis for a combined total of $52 million. Compared to the existing BPU approved CAC rates, the resultant total
net annual revenue impact on the electric and gas customers is a $33 million increase over the 2009 rates. In December 2009, the BPU approved a stipulation to reset the CAC effective January 1, 2010.



•Susquehanna-Roseland BPU Petition—In January 2009, we filed a Petition with the BPU seeking authorization to construct the New
Jersey portion of the Susquehanna-Roseland line. The New Jersey portion of the line spans approximately 45 miles and crosses through 16 municipalities. The Petition seeks a finding from the BPU that municipal land use and zoning ordinances do not
apply to this line.







On February 11, 2010, the BPU granted approval to PSE&G to construct the New Jersey portion of this project. In June 2009, the New Jersey Highlands Council provided a favorable
applicability determination with respect to the portion of the project crossing the Highlands region, and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) approved this determination on January 15, 2010. We are in the process
of seeking to obtain all other necessary environmental permits for the project, including from the National Park Service, as may be necessary. Failure to obtain all permits on a timely basis could delay the project.

BPU Audits

The BPU has
statutory authority to conduct periodic audits of our utility’s operations and our compliance with applicable affiliate rules and competition standards. The BPU has begun conducting its periodic combined management/competitive service audits of
PSE&G.



•Management/Affiliate Audit—The BPU engaged a contractor to perform a comprehensive audit with respect to the effectiveness of
management and transactions among affiliates, which began in October 2009. According to the BPU schedule the audit will be completed as early as July 2010. A report will be produced which can be expected to include recommendations for changes in
practices at PSE&G and affiliates. We will have an opportunity to provide comments. The BPU may enforce the findings in whole or in part by Order.



•Deferral Audit—The BPU Energy and Audit Division conducts audits of deferred balances. A draft Deferral Audit—Phase II report
relating to the 12-month period ended July 31, 2003 was released by the consultant to the BPU in April 2005. For additional information regarding the Deferral Audit, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 12. Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities.



•RAC Audit—In February 2008, the BPU’s Division of Audits commenced a review of the RAC program for the RAC 12, 13 and 14
periods encompassing August 1, 2003 through July 31, 2006. Total RAC costs associated with this period were $83 million. The BPU has not issued a final order or report. We cannot predict the final outcome of this audit.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Environmental laws and regulations significantly impact the manner in which our operations are currently conducted and impose costs on us to address the environmental impacts of historical operations that
may have been in full compliance with the requirements in effect at the time those operations were conducted. To the extent that environmental requirements are more stringent and compliance more costly in certain states where we operate compared to
other states that are part of the same market, such rules may impact our ability to compete within that market. Due to evolving environmental regulations, it is difficult to project future costs of compliance and their impact on competition. Capital
costs of complying with current pollution control requirements are included in our estimate of construction expenditures in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be
imposed by future regulations are not known and are not included in capital expenditures, but may be material.

Areas of environmental
regulation may include, but are not limited to:



•air pollution control,



•water pollution control,



•hazardous substance liability,



•fuel and waste disposal, and



•climate change.

For
additional information related to environmental matters, including anticipated expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, hazardous substance liabilities and fuel and waste disposal costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors,
Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.







Air Pollution Control

Our facilities are subject to federal regulation under the Clean Air Act (CAA) which requires controls of emissions from sources of air pollution and imposes record keeping, reporting and permit
requirements. Our facilities are also subject to requirements established under state and local air pollution laws.

Title V of the CAA
requires all major sources such as our generation facilities to obtain and keep current an operating permit. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed and included in these permits in the future could be
material and are not included in capital expenditures, but may be material.



•Sulfur dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) and Particulate Matter Emissions—Since January 1, 2000, the CAA set a cap on SO2emissions from affected generating units and allocated SO2allowances to those units with the stated intent of reducing the impact
of acid rain. Generation units with emissions greater than their allocations can obtain allowances from sources that have excess allowances. We do not expect to incur material expenditures to continue complying with this SO2 program, known as the
“acid rain program.”

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
further regulated SO2and NOx by enacting the final Clean Air
Interstate Rule (CAIR). In this rule, the EPA identified 28 states and the District of Columbia as contributing significantly to the levels of fine particulates and/or eight-hour ozone air quality in states downwind of those states identified by
EPA. New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas and Connecticut were among the states the EPA listed as contributing to downwind particulate and eight-hour ozone air quality. Based on state obligations to address interstate transport of air
pollutants under the CAA, the EPA had proposed a two-phased emission reduction of both NOxand SO2, which
are precursors to both particulate matter emissions and ozone air quality. Under CAIR, both NOxand SO2are
regulated under two phases, which correspond to the emissions levels expected to be obtained by certain dates during those phases. Phase 1of CAIR was scheduled to begin in 2009 for emissions of NOxand 2010 for emissions of SO2.Phase 2 of CAIR for NOx and SO2emissions were scheduled to begin in 2015. The EPA is recommending that the program be implemented through a cap-and-trade
program, although states are not required to proceed in this manner.

CAIR was challenged by a variety of states, environmental
groups and industry groups. In December 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit remanded CAIR back to the EPA to fix what the Court identified as the flaws within CAIR. The existing CAIR will remain in effect until the
EPA issues new rules.

Based upon the remand order, the NOxtrading program commenced in 2009. It is anticipated that, in aggregate, we will be net buyers of annual NOxallowances but will likely be allocated sufficient
allowances to satisfy Ozone season NOxemissions. At recent
market prices of annual NOxallowances, the cost of our
estimated shortfall requirement of 3,000 allowances would be approximately $10 million. The future direction of the market is unclear due to the recent court rulings. The final cost of compliance is uncertain due to market instability.

The SO2part of CAIR was initiated on January 1, 2010, and the financial impact to us is anticipated to be minimal due to the
surplus allowances banked from the acid rain program that can be used to satisfy CAIR obligations. CAIR redesign is expected to be proposed in the second quarter of 2010. The impacts of this redesign cannot be determined at this time.

Water Pollution Control

The Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) prohibits the discharge of pollutants to U.S. waters from point sources, except pursuant to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the EPA or by a state under a federally authorized
state program. The FWPCA authorizes the imposition of technology-based and water quality-based effluent limits to regulate the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and ground waters. The EPA has delegated authority to a number of state
agencies, including those in New Jersey, New York, Connecticut and Texas, to administer the NPDES program through state acts. We also have ownership interests in facilities in other jurisdictions that have their own laws and implement regulations to
control discharges to their surface waters and ground waters that directly govern our facilities in those jurisdictions.







In addition to regulating the discharge of pollutants, the FWPCA regulates the intake of surface waters for
cooling. The use of cooling water is a significant part of the generation of electricity at steam-electric generating stations. Section 316(b) of the FWPCA requires that cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available for
minimizing adverse environmental impact. The impact of regulations under Section 316(b) can be significant, particularly at steam-electric generating stations which do not have closed cycle cooling, in other words, the use of cooling towers to
recycle water for cooling purposes. The installation of cooling towers at an existing generating station can impose significant engineering challenges and significant costs, which can affect the economic viability of a particular plant.

For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Hazardous Substance Liability

The
production and delivery of electricity, distribution of gas and, formerly, the manufacture of gas, results in various by-products and substances classified by federal and state regulations as hazardous. These regulations may impose liability for
damages to the environment from hazardous substances, including obligations to conduct environmental remediation of discharged hazardous substances as well as monetary payments, regardless of the absence of fault and the absence of any prohibitions
against the activity when it occurred, as compensation for injuries to natural resources.



•Site Remediation—The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the New
Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act (Spill Act) require the remediation of discharged hazardous substances and authorize the EPA, the NJDEP and private parties to commence lawsuits to compel clean-ups or reimbursement for such remediation. The
clean-ups can be more complicated and costly when the hazardous substances are in a body of water.



•Natural Resource Damages—CERCLA and the Spill Act authorize the assessment of damages against persons who have discharged a
hazardous substance, causing an injury to natural resources. Pursuant to the Spill Act, the NJDEP requires persons conducting remediation to characterize injuries to natural resources and to address those injuries through restoration or damages. The
NJDEP adopted regulations concerning site investigation and remediation that require an ecological evaluation of potential damages to natural resources in connection with an environmental investigation of contaminated sites. The NJDEP also issued
guidance to assist parties in calculating their natural resource damage liability for settlement purposes, but has stated that those calculations are applicable only for those parties that volunteer to settle a claim for natural resource damages
before a claim is asserted by the NJDEP. We are currently unable to assess the magnitude of the potential financial impact of this regulatory change.

Fuel and Waste Disposal



•Nuclear Fuel Disposal—The federal government has entered into contracts with the operators of nuclear power plants for
transportation and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel. To pay for this service, nuclear plant owners are required to contribute to a Nuclear Waste Fund. In September 2009, we signed an agreement with the DOE applicable to Salem and Hope Creek
under which we will be reimbursed for past and future reasonable and allowable costs resulting from the DOE delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposition. Under this settlement, in October 2009 we received approximately $47 million
for our spent fuel management costs incurred through December 2007 and in January 2010 we received approximately $7 million for those costs incurred during 2008. A similar settlement agreement was reached related to Peach Bottom in 2004.

Spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor can be stored in reactor facility storage pools or in
Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations located at reactors or away-from reactor sites for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for the reactor. We have an on-site storage facility that is expected to satisfy the storage needs of Salem 1,
Salem 2 and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses as well as storage needs over the units’ anticipated 20 year license extensions. Exelon Generation has advised us that it has an on-site storage facility that will satisfy Peach
Bottom’s storage requirements until at least 2014.







•Low Level Radioactive Waste—As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low level radioactive waste. Such
waste includes paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification materials and other materials. These waste materials are accumulated on site and disposed of at licensed permanent disposal facilities. New Jersey, Connecticut and South
Carolina have formed the Atlantic Compact, which gives New Jersey nuclear generators continued access to the Barnwell waste disposal facility which is owned by South Carolina. We believe that the Atlantic Compact will provide for adequate low level
radioactive waste disposal for Salem and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses including full decommissioning, although no assurances can be given. There are on-site storage facilities for Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom, which we
believe have the capacity for at least five years of temporary storage for each facility.

Climate Change

In response to concerns over global climate change, some states have developed initiatives to stimulate national climate legislation
through CO2emission reductions in the electric power
industry. Ten Northeastern states, including New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, have established RGGI intended to cap and reduce CO2emissions in the region. In general, these states adopted state-specific rules to enable the RGGI regulatory mandate in
each state.

States’ rules make allowances available through a regional auction whereby generators may acquire allowances that are each
equal to one ton of CO2 emissions. Generators are required to submit an allowance for each ton emitted over a three year period (e.g. 2009, 2010, 2011). Allowances are available through the auction or through secondary markets and are required to be
submitted to states by March 2012 for the first period.

Pricing for the allowances will vary based on future allowance market conditions,
electric generation market conditions and the possibility of a national greenhouse gas program that may or may not supplant RGGI.

New Jersey
also adopted the Global Warming Response Act in 2007, which calls for stabilizing its greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, followed by a further reduction of greenhouse emissions to 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. To reach this goal, the
NJDEP, the BPU, other state agencies and stakeholders are required to evaluate methods to meet and exceed the emission reduction targets, taking into account their economic benefits and costs.

Concurrently, the federal government is considering several bills to define a national energy policy and address climate change. Bills under
consideration include provisions to establish a national renewable energy portfolio standard, to establish an energy efficiency resource standard and to implement a cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Provisions contained
within these bills may present material risks and opportunities to our businesses. Ultimately, the final design of the federal climate change bill—specifically with regard to the stringency and integrity of the carbon cap, the design of
price control mechanisms, rules governing the use of offsets, how emissions allowances are allocated and provisions for preemption of State, regional, and EPA programs—will determine the impact of the legislation on us. We will not be able to
reasonably estimate these impacts until final legislation is passed.

The EPA has issued an endangerment finding for greenhouse gas emissions,
and is in the process of defining how it will apply Preventions of Significant Deterioration (PSD)/ Best Available Control Technology (BACT) requirements for greenhouse gas emissions at new and or modified sources. The scope and stringency of these
requirements will determine their impact to the electric power industry and us.

For additional information on various activities at the
federal level during 2009 related to addressing global climate change, see Item 7. MD&A—Overview of 2009 and Future Outlook.

The outcome of global climate change initiatives cannot be determined; however, adoption of stringent CO2emissions reduction requirements in the Northeast, including the potential allocation of allowances to our facilities and
the prices of allowances available through auction, could materially impact our operations. The financial impact of a requirement to purchase allowances for emissions of CO2would be greatest on coal-fired generating units because they typically have the highest CO2emission rate and therefore, need to purchase the most allowances.
Gas-fired units would require fewer allowances and nuclear units would not need any allowances.







Any addition of CO2limit requirements under a national program could impose an additional financial impact on our fossil generation
activities beyond that imposed by existing state and regional programs. It is premature to determine the positive or negative financial impact of a future federal climate change program because it is difficult to determine the effect of such program
on the dispatch of our electric generation units compared to the dispatch of other power generating companies, particularly those which may have a larger carbon footprint.

While there would be increased costs relating to these evolving regulations, the efforts to reduce greenhouse gases could lead to increased opportunities associated with renewable generation and other
alternative fuels. Moreover, to the extent that a carbon charge applies to gas and coal generation, we could experience higher margin from the sale of energy produced by our nuclear facilities. However, it is premature to attempt to quantify the
possible costs and other implications of our generation facilities.

In addition to legislative and regulatory initiatives, the outcome of
certain legal proceedings not involving our companies could be material in the future liability of energy companies on alleged impacts of global climate change. Litigation has been commenced by individuals, local governments and interest groups
alleging that various industries, including various energy companies, emitted greenhouse gases causing global climate change that resulted in a variety of damages. If relevant Federal or state common law were to develop that imposed liability upon
those that emit greenhouse gases for alleged impacts of greenhouse gas emissions, such potential liability could be material.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

Financial information with respect to our business segments is set forth in Note 21. Financial Information by
Business Segment.



