ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

We were
incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We conduct our business through three direct wholly owned subsidiaries, Power, PSE&G and
Energy Holdings, each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. PSEG Services Corporation (Services), our wholly owned subsidiary, provides us and these operating subsidiaries with certain
management, administrative and general services at cost.

As of and for the Year Ended December 31, 2010











We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the
Northeastern and Mid Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries’ operating results. Below
are descriptions of our principal operating subsidiaries.



PowerPSE&GEnergy HoldingsA Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy sales,
fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management functions.Earns revenues from selling under contract or on the spot market a range of diverse products such as electricity, natural gas, capacity, emissions credits
and a series of energy-related products used to optimize the operation of the energy grid.A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last
resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory.Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial customers in its service territory.
It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory.Has also implemented several programs to improve efficiencies in customer energy use and increase the level of renewable generation within New Jersey.A New Jersey limited liability company (successor to a corporation which was incorporated in 1989) that invests and operates through its
two primary subsidiaries.Earns revenues from managing lease investments
and the operation of its generation projects.Also pursuing solar and
other renewable generation projects.

The majority of our earnings are derived from the operations of Power, which has
contributed at least 70% of our Income from Continuing Operations over the past three years. While this part of the business has produced significant earnings over that period, its operations are subject to higher risks resulting from volatility in
the energy markets. As a regulated public utility, PSE&G has continued to be a stable earnings contributor for us. Earnings from Energy Holdings have significantly declined over the past few years as we sold virtually all of our investments in
international projects. Energy Holdings’ earnings have also been impacted by gains and losses on its asset sales and other charges and impairments taken on its remaining investments.



Earnings (Losses) in millions201020092008Power$1,136$1,191$1,050PSE&G359325364Energy Holdings4972(468)Other136(28)PSEG Income from Continuing Operations$1,557$1,594$918







The following is a more detailed description of our business, including a discussion of our:



•Business Operations and Strategy



•Competitive Environment



•Employee Relations



•Regulatory Issues



•Environmental Matters

BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY

Power

Through Power, we seek to produce
low-cost energy by efficiently operating our nuclear, coal, gas and oil-fired generation facilities, while balancing generation production, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. We use commodity contracts and
financial instruments, combined with our owned generation, to cover our commitments for Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contract agreements.

Products and Services

As a merchant generator, our profit is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to power marketers and to others, such as
investor-owned and municipal utilities, and to aggregators who resell energy to retail consumers, or in the spot market. These products and services include:



•Energy—the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air
conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kWh or dollars per MWh.



•Capacity—a product distinct from energy, is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System
Operator (ISO) for dispatch if it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period.



•Ancillary Services—related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market, required by the ISO to ensure the safe
and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges imposed on
market participants.



•Emissions Allowances and Congestion Credits—Emissions allowances (or credits) represent the right to emit a specific amount of certain
pollutants. Allowance trading is used to control air pollution by providing economic incentives for achieving reductions in the emissions of pollutants. Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the
holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path.

Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full requirements Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract with PSE&G to meet the gas
supply requirements of PSE&G’s customers. The current BGSS contract runs through March 31, 2012.

About 44% of PSE&G’s
peak daily gas requirements is provided from Power’s firm transportation capacity, which is available every day of the year. Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&G’s requirements from storage contracts, liquefied natural gas, seasonal
purchases, contract peaking supply, propane and refinery gas. Based upon availability, Power also sells gas to others.







How Power Operates

We own approximately 13,500 MWs of generation capacity located in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions of the U.S. in some of the country’s largest and most developed electricity markets.

The map below shows the locations of Power’s Northeast and Mid Atlantic generation facilities.



We have recently entered into agreements to sell our 2,000 MW of generation capacity in Texas. See Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4. Discontinued Operations and Dispositions, for additional information.

For additional information on each of our generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.



•Generation Capacity

Our installed capacity utilizes a diverse mix of fuels: 45% gas, 27% nuclear, 18% coal, 9% oil and 1% pumped storage. This fuel diversity helps to mitigate risks associated with fuel price volatility and
market demand cycles. Our total generating output in 2010, excluding amounts related to the Texas generation facilities which are being sold, was approximately 56,700 GWh. The following table indicates the proportionate share of generating output by
fuel type.



Generation by Fuel TypeActual2010Nuclear:New Jersey facilities36%Pennsylvania facilities16%Fossil:Coal:New Jersey facilities7%Pennsylvania facilities10%Connecticut facilities2%Oil and Natural Gas:New Jersey facilities21%New York facilities8%Total100%







While overall generation has increased over the past several years, the mix by fuel type has changed
slightly in recent years due to the relatively favorable price of natural gas as compared to coal, making it more economical to run certain of our gas units than our coal units.



•Generation Dispatch

Our generation units are typically characterized as serving one or more of three general energy market segments: base load; load following; and peaking, based on their operating capability and
performance. On a capacity basis, our portfolio of generation assets consists of 36% base load, 42% load following and 22% peaking. This diversity helps to reduce the risk associated with market demand cycles and allows us to participate in the
market at each segment of the dispatch curve.



•Base Load Unitsoperate whenever they are available. These units generally derive revenues from energy and capacity sales. Variable operating
costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit’s “capacity factor,” or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical
maximum output. Our base load nuclear unit capacity factors were as follows:



Unit2010CapacityFactorSalem Unit 185.3%Salem Unit 296.9%Hope Creek89.1%Peach Bottom Unit 289.8%Peach Bottom Unit 397.0%

No
assurances can be given that these capacity factors will be achieved in the future.



•Load Following Unitsoperate between 20% and 80% of the time. The operating costs are higher per unit of output due to lower efficiency and/or
the use of higher cost fuels such as oil, natural gas and, in some cases, coal. They operate less frequently than base load units and derive revenues from energy, capacity and ancillary services.



•Peaking Unitsrun the least amount of time and utilize higher-priced fuels. These units operate less than 20% of the time. Costs per unit of
output tend to be much higher than for base load units. The majority of revenues are from capacity and ancillary service sales. The characteristics of these units enable them to capture energy revenues during periods of high energy prices.







In the energy markets in which we operate, owners of power plants specify to the ISO prices at which they
are prepared to generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. The ISOs will dispatch in merit order, calling on the lowest variable cost units first and dispatching progressively higher-cost
units until the point that the entire system demand for power (known as the system “load”) is satisfied. Base load units are dispatched first, with load following units next, followed by peaking units. The following chart depicts the merit
order of dispatch in PJM, where most of our generation units are located, based on illustrative historical dispatch cost. It should be noted that recent market price fluctuations have resulted in changes from historical norms, with lower gas prices
allowing some gas generation to displace some coal generation:



The bid price of the last unit dispatched by an ISO establishes the energy market-clearing price. After considering the
market-clearing price and the effect of transmission congestion and other factors, the ISO calculates the locational marginal pricing (LMP) for every location in the system. The ISO pays all units that are dispatched their respective LMP for each
MWh of energy produced, regardless of their specific bid prices. Since bids generally approximate the marginal cost of production, units with lower marginal costs typically generate higher operating profits than units with comparatively higher
marginal costs.

During periods when one or more parts of the transmission grid are operating at full capability, thereby resulting in a
constraint on the transmission system, it may not be possible to dispatch units in merit order without violating transmission reliability standards. Under such circumstances, the ISO will dispatch higher-cost generation out of merit order within the
congested area and power suppliers will be paid an increased LMP in congested areas, reflecting the bid prices of those higher-cost generation units.







This method of determining supply and pricing creates an environment in the markets such that natural gas
prices often have a major impact on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong demand. Therefore, significant changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into significant changes
in the wholesale price of electricity. This can be seen in the graphs below which present historical annual spot prices and forward calendar prices as averaged over each year.





Historical data and forward prices would imply that the price of natural gas will continue to have a strong influence on the
price of electricity in the primary markets in which we operate.

The prices reflected in the tables above do not necessarily illustrate our
contract prices, but they are representative of market prices at relatively liquid hubs, with nearer-term forward pricing generally resulting from more liquid markets than pricing for later years. In addition, the prices do not reflect locational
differences resulting from congestion or other factors, which can be considerable. While these prices provide some perspective on past and future prices, the forward prices are highly volatile and there is no assurance that such prices will remain
in effect nor that we will be able to contract output at these forward prices.

Fuel Supply



•Nuclear Fuel Supply—To run our nuclear units we have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for:



•purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride);



•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;







•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; and



•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies.



•Coal Supply—Coal is the primary fuel for our Hudson, Mercer, Keystone, Conemaugh and Bridgeport stations. We have contracts with
numerous suppliers. Coal is delivered to our units through a combination of rail, truck, barge or ocean shipments.

In order to minimize emissions levels, our Bridgeport 3 unit uses a specific type of coal obtained from Indonesia. If the supply from Indonesia or equivalent coal from other sources was not available for
this facility, our near-term operations would be adversely impacted. In the longer-term, additional material capital expenditures would be required to modify our Bridgeport 3 station to enable it to operate using a broader mix of coal sources. In
the past, this coal was also used for our Hudson 2 unit; however, during 2010 we completed the installation of pollution control equipment at that facility which will provide us more flexibility in the types of coal we can use there in the future.
For additional information see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.



•Gas Supply—Natural gas is the primary fuel for the bulk of our load following and peaking fleet. We purchase gas directly from
natural gas producers and marketers. These supplies are transported to New Jersey by four interstate pipelines with whom we have contracted. In addition, we have firm gas transportation contracts to serve our Bethlehem Energy Center (BEC) in New
York.

We have 1.3 billion cubic feet-per-day of firm transportation capacity under contract to meet our
obligations under the BGSS contract. On an as available basis, this firm transportation capacity may also be used to serve the gas supply needs of our generation fleet. We supplement that supply with a total storage capacity of 78 billion cubic
feet.



•Oil—Oil is used as the primary fuel for two load following steam units and nine combustion turbine peaking units and can be used as
an alternate fuel by several load following and peaking units that have dual-fuel capability. Oil for operations is drawn from on-site storage and is generally purchased on the spot market and delivered by truck, barge or pipeline.

We expect to be able to meet the fuel supply demands of our customers and our own operations. However, the ability to
maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand, curtailments by suppliers, severe weather and other factors. For additional information, see Item 7.
MD&A—Overview of 2010 and Future Outlook and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Markets and Market Pricing

Power’s assets are located in three centralized,
competitive electricity markets operated by ISO organizations all of which are subject to the regulatory oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC):



•PJM Regional Transmission Organization—PJM conducts the largest centrally dispatched energy market in North America. It serves over
51 million people, nearly 17% of the total U.S. population and a peak demand of over 144,000 MW. The PJM Interconnection coordinates the movement of electricity through all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan,
New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. The majority of Power’s generating stations operate in PJM.



•New York—The NYISO is the market coordinator for New York State and is now responsible for managing the New York Power Pool and for
administering its energy marketplace. This service area has a population of about 19 million and a peak demand of over 33,900 MW. Power’s BEC station operates in New York.



•New England—ISO NE coordinates the movement of electricity in a region covering Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut
and Rhode Island. This service area has a population of about 14 million and a peak demand of over 28,000 MW. Power’s Bridgeport and New Haven stations operate in Connecticut.







The price of electricity varies by location in each of these markets. Depending upon our production and our
obligations, these price differentials can serve to increase or decrease our profitability.

Commodity prices, such as electricity, gas, coal,
oil and emissions, as well as the availability of our diverse fleet of generation units to produce these products, also have a considerable effect on our profitability. These commodity prices have been, and continue to be, subject to significant
market volatility.

Since the majority of the power we generate has generally been sourced from lower-cost nuclear and coal units, the
historical rise in electric prices has yielded higher margins for us. Over a longer-term horizon, the higher the forward prices are, the more attractive an environment exists for us to contract for the sale of our anticipated output. However, higher
prices also increase the cost of replacement power, thereby placing us at risk should any of our generating units fail to function effectively or otherwise become unavailable.

Over the past two years, a decline in wholesale natural gas prices has resulted in lower electricity prices. One of the reasons for the decline in natural gas prices is greater supply from shale
production. This trend has reduced margin on forward sales as we recontract our expected generation output.

In addition to energy sales, we
also earn revenue from capacity payments for our assets in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S. These payments are compensation for committing a portion of our capacity to the ISO for dispatch at its discretion. Capacity payments reflect the value to
the ISO of assurance that there is sufficient generating capacity available at all times to meet system reliability and energy requirements. Currently, there is sufficient capacity in the markets in which we operate. However, in certain areas of
these markets there are transmission system constraints, raising concerns about reliability and creating a more acute need for capacity. Previously, some generators, including us, announced the retirement or potential retirement of certain older
generating facilities due to insufficient revenues to support their continued operation. To enable the continued availability of these facilities, in separate instances, both PJM and ISO-NE agreed to enter into Reliability-Must-Run (RMR)
arrangements to compensate operators for those units’ contribution to reliability. While the RMRs for our units in the ISO-NE expired in 2010, the RMR arrangement for our Hudson 1 generating unit remains in effect and was recently extended
until September 2012.

In PJM and ISO-NE, where we operate most of our generation, the market design for capacity payments provides for a
structured, forward-looking, transparent capacity pricing mechanism. This is through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) in PJM and the Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in ISO-NE. These mechanisms provide greater clarity regarding the value of
capacity, resulting in an improved pricing signal to prospective investors in new generating facilities so as to encourage expansion of capacity to meet future market demands.

The prices to be received by generating units in PJM for capacity have been set through RPM base residual auctions and depend upon the zone in which the generating unit is located. The majority of our PJM
generating units are located in zones where the following prices have been set.



Delivery YearMW-daykW-yrJune 2010 to May 2011$174.29$63.62June 2011 to May 2012$110.00$40.16June 2012 to May 2013$139.73$51.70June 2013 to May 2014$245.00$89.43

Identical prices were set for all
zones for the periods from June 2010 to May 2012 under these auctions. For all other periods the prices differ in the various areas of PJM, depending on the constraints in each area of the transmission system, with Keystone and Conemaugh receiving
lower prices than the majority of our PJM generating units since there are fewer constraints in that region and our generating units in northern New Jersey receiving higher pricing.







The price that must be paid by an entity serving load in the various zones is also set through these
auctions. These prices can be higher or lower than the prices noted in the table above due to import and export capability to and from lower-priced areas.

Like PJM and ISO-NE, the NYISO provides capacity payments to its generating units, but unlike these other two markets, the New York market does not provide a forward price signal beyond a six month
auction period.

On a prospective basis, many factors may affect the capacity pricing, including but not limited to:



•changes in load and demand;



•changes in the available amounts of demand response resources;



•changes in available generating capacity (including retirements, additions, derates, forced outages, etc.);



•increases in transmission capability between zones;



•changes to the pricing mechanism, including potentially increasing the number of zones to create more pricing sensitivity to changes in supply and
demand, as well as other potential changes that PJM may propose over time; and



•changes driven by legislative and/or regulatory action, that permit states to subsidize local electric power generation through the consummation of
standard offer capacity agreements.

For additional information on our collection of RMR payments in PJM and the RPM and FCM
markets, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.

Hedging Strategy

In an attempt to mitigate volatility in our results, we seek to contract in advance for a significant portion of our anticipated electric output, capacity
and fuel needs. We seek to sell a portion of our anticipated lower-cost nuclear and coal-fired generation over a multi-year forward horizon, normally over a period of two to three years. We believe this hedging strategy increases stability of
earnings.

Among the ways in which we hedge our output are: (1) sales at PJM West and (2) BGS contracts. Sales at PJM West reflect
block energy sales at the liquid PJM Western Hub and other transactions that seek to secure price certainty for our generation related products. In addition, the BGS-Fixed Price contract, a full requirements contract that includes energy and
capacity, ancillary and other services, is awarded for three-year periods through an auction process managed by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The volume of BGS contracts and the electric utilities that our generation operations
will serve vary from year to year. Pricing for the BGS contracts for recent and future periods by purchasing utility, including a capacity component, is as follows:



Load Zone ($/MWh)2008-20112009-20122010-20132011-2014PSE&G$111.50$103.72$95.77$94.30Jersey Central Power and Light$114.09$103.51$95.17$92.56Atlantic City Electric$116.50$105.36$98.56$100.95Rockland Electric Company$120.49$112.70$103.32$106.84

A portion of our total capacity is
hedged through the BGS auctions. On average, tranches won in the BGS auctions require 100 MW to 120 MW of capacity on a daily basis.

We have
obtained price certainty for all of our PJM and New England capacity through May 2014 through the RPM and FCM pricing mechanisms.

We enter
into these hedges in an effort to provide price certainty for a large portion of our anticipated generation. There is, however, variability in both our actual output as well as in our hedges. Our actual output







will vary based upon total market demand, the relative cost position of our units compared to all units in the market and the operational flexibility of our units. Our hedge volume can also vary,
depending on the type of hedge into which we have entered. The BGS auction, for example, results in a contract that provides for the supplier to serve a percentage of the default load of a New Jersey electric delivery company, that is, the load that
remains after some customers have chosen to be served directly by third party suppliers. The amount of power supplied varies based on the level of the delivery company’s default load, which is affected by the number of customers who choose a
third party supplier, as well as by other factors such as weather and the economy. Historically, the number of customers that have switched to third party suppliers was relatively constant, but in 2010, as market prices declined from past
years’ historic highs, there has been an incentive for more of the smaller commercial and industrial electric customers to switch. In a falling price environment, this has a negative impact on Power’s margins, as the anticipated BGS
pricing is replaced by lower market pricing. We are unable to determine the degree to which this switching, or “migration,” will continue, but the impact on our results could be material.

To support our contracted sales of energy, we enter into contracts for the future purchase and delivery of our anticipated nuclear fuel and coal needs,
which include some market-based pricing components. As of February 15, 2011, we had contracted for the following percentages of our nuclear and coal generation output and related fuel supplies for the next three years with modest amounts beyond
2013.



Nuclear and Coal Generation201120122013Generation Sales90%-95%40%-50%15%-30%Nuclear Fuel Purchases100%100%100%Coal Supply and Transportation Costs100%70%-80%20%-30%

We take a more opportunistic
approach in hedging our anticipated natural gas-fired generation. The generation from these units is less predictable, as these units are generally dispatched when aggregate market demand has exceeded the supply provided by lower-cost units. The
natural gas-fired units have generally provided a lower contribution to our margin than either the nuclear or coal units, although recent market price dynamics of coal and gas moderated this historical relationship for 2010.

In a changing market environment, this hedging strategy may cause our realized prices to differ materially from current market prices. In a rising price
environment, this strategy normally results in lower margins than would have been the case if little or no hedging activity had been conducted. Alternatively, in a falling price environment, this hedging strategy will tend to create margins higher
than those implied by the then current market.







PSE&G

Our public utility, PSE&G, distributes electric energy and gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 5.5 million people, or
about 70% of the State’s population, reside.



Products and Services

Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the transmission and distribution of electricity and the distribution of gas.



•Transmission—is the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then
reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the FERC.



•Distribution—is the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer’s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for
these services are based upon tariffs approved by the BPU.

We also earn margins through non-tariff competitive services,
such as appliance repair services. The commodity supply portion of our utility business’ electric and gas sales are managed by BGS and BGSS suppliers. Pricing for those services are set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for
our utility operations.

In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to improve efficiencies
in customer energy use and increase the level of renewable generation including:

•a program to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area,



•a program to develop, own and operate solar power systems, and



•a set of energy efficiency programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and money saving measures directly to
businesses and families.

For additional information concerning these programs and the components of our tariffs, see
Regulatory Issues.







How PSE&G Operates

We provide network transmission and point-to-point transmission services, which are coordinated with PJM, and provide distribution service to 2.2 million electric customers and 1.8 million gas
customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most heavily populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and
approximately 300 suburban and rural communities.

Transmission

We use formula rates for our existing and future transmission investments. Formula-type rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission
owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula which considers Operations and Maintenance expenditures, Rate Base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average
cost of capital. Currently, approved rates provide for a base ROE of 11.68% on existing and new transmission investment, while certain investments are entitled to earn incentive rates. For more information on current transmission construction
activities, see Regulatory Issues, Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation.



Transmission StatisticsDecember 31, 2010Historical Annual LoadNetwork Circuit MilesBilling Peak (MW)Growth 2006-20101,35710,761-0.1%

Distribution

Our primary business is the distribution of gas and electricity to end users in our service territory. Our load requirements were
split among residential, commercial and industrial customers, as described below for 2010. We believe that we have all the non-exclusive franchise rights (including consents) necessary for our electric and gas distribution operations in the
territory we serve.



% of 2010 SalesCustomer TypeElectricGasCommercial57%36%Residential33%61%Industrial10%3%Total100%100%

While our customer base has remained steady, electric and gas load has declined, as illustrated:



Electric and Gas Distribution StatisticsDecember 31, 2010Historical AnnualNumber ofCustomersElectric Sales and GasSold and TransportedLoad Growth2006-2010Electric2.2 Million43,645 GWh-0.5%Gas1.8 Million3,465 Million Therms-1.0%







Supply

Although commodity revenues make up more than 59% of our revenues, we make no profit on the supply of energy since the actual costs are passed through to our customers.

All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their own electric energy and/or gas supplier. However, pursuant to BPU
requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for electric and gas customers within our service territory who have not chosen another supplier. As a practical matter, this means we are obligated to provide supply to a vast majority of
residential customers and a smaller portion of commercial and industrial customers.

We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through
two concurrent auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey’s
electric distribution companies (EDCs). Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set.

PSE&G procures the supply
requirements of our default service gas customers (BGSS) through a full requirements contract with Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made
annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in
future rates. Commercial and industrial customers that do not have third party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts.

Markets and Market Pricing

There continues to be significant volatility in commodity prices. Such volatility can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and
gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for both electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs may be deferred under our regulated rate
structure. A declining commodity price on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. For additional information, including the impact of natural gas commodity prices on electricity prices such as BGS, see Item 7. MD&A.







Energy Holdings

Our focus at Energy Holdings is on managing our portfolio of lease investments and exploring opportunities to participate in solar, wind and alternative energy developments in the U.S., as discussed
below.

Since 2008, we have pursued opportunities to terminate international leveraged leases with lessees willing to meet certain economic
thresholds in order to reduce the cash tax exposure related to these leases. As of December 31, 2010, we had terminated all of these leveraged lease investments and reduced the related cash tax exposure by $1.1 billion. Over the past several
years, we have also reduced our international risk by opportunistically monetizing the majority of our previous investments. We are continuing to explore options for our remaining international investment in Venezuela as well as our projects in
California, Hawaii and New Hampshire totaling 240 MW. For additional information on these generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Products and Services

The majority of our remaining $1.3 billion of domestic lease
investments are energy-related leveraged leases. As of December 31, 2010, the single largest lease investment represented 26% of total lease investments.

Our leveraged leasing portfolio is designed to provide a fixed rate of return. Leveraged lease investments involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease
financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long-term financing to the
transaction secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long-term financing is non-recourse to the lessor and, with respect to our lease investments, is not presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The lessor acquires economic and tax ownership of the asset and then leases it to the lessee for a period of time no greater than 80% of its remaining
useful life. As the owner, the lessor is entitled to depreciate the asset under applicable federal and state tax guidelines. The lessor receives income from lease payments made by the lessee during the term of the lease and from tax benefits
associated with interest and depreciation deductions with respect to the leased property. Our ability to realize these tax benefits is dependent on operating gains generated by our other operating subsidiaries and allocated pursuant to the
consolidated tax sharing agreement between us and our operating subsidiaries.

Lease rental payments are unconditional obligations of the
lessee and are set at levels at least sufficient to service the non-recourse lease debt. The lessor is also entitled to any residual value associated with the leased asset at the end of the lease term. An evaluation of the after-tax cash flows to
the lessor determines the return on the investment. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., the lease investment is recorded net of non-recourse debt and income is recognized as a constant return on the net unrecovered
investment.

For additional information on leases, including the credit, tax and accounting risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors,
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk—Energy Holdings, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Financing Receivables and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities.

Through Energy Holdings, we have solar project investments in New Jersey, Florida and Ohio totaling 29 MW, all of which are fully
operational. See Item 2. Properties for additional information.

A joint venture owned equally by us and an unaffiliated private developer
has been awarded a $3 million grant by the New Jersey Office of Clean Energy (OCE) to advance the development of a wind site to be located approximately 16 miles off the shore of southern New Jersey. Numerous issues will need to be resolved in order
to successfully develop such a project. The State of New Jersey has taken steps to stimulate the development of offshore wind generation by enacting the Offshore Wind Economic Development Act. This Act requires BGS and third-party suppliers in New
Jersey to procure Offshore Renewable Energy Certificates (ORECs) from qualified off-shore facilities for a 20-year term. The BPU is currently in the process of developing and implementing regulations that will establish an OREC program under which
the BPU can review applications to construct, finance and operate off-shore wind facilities.







We also have invested in a joint venture to license technology that stores energy in the form of compressed
air which can later be released to generate electricity through specialized equipment. This technology could be used to optimize an intermittent energy source, such as wind, by storing energy for when it is needed.

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

Power

Various market participants compete with us and one another in buying and selling in wholesale power pools, entering into bilateral
contracts and selling to aggregated retail customers. Our competitors include:



•merchant generators,



•domestic and multi-national utility generators,



•energy marketers,



•banks, funds and other financial entities,



•fuel supply companies, and



•affiliates of other industrial companies.

New additions of lower-cost or more efficient generation capacity could make our plants less economical in the future. Although it is not clear if this capacity will be built or, if so, what the economic
impact will be, such additions could impact market prices and our competitiveness.

Our business is also under competitive pressure due to
demand side management (DSM) and other efficiency efforts aimed at changing the quantity and patterns of usage by consumers which could result in a reduction in load requirements. A reduction in load requirements can also be caused by economic
cycles, customer migration and other factors. It is also possible that advances in technology, such as distributed generation, will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most
central station electric production. To the extent that additions to the transmission system relieve or reduce congestion in eastern PJM where most of our plants are located, our revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules governing
transmission planning or cost allocation could also impact our revenues.

We are also at risk if one or more states in which we operate should
decide to turn away from competition. This is now occurring in the State of New Jersey where a new law was enacted on January 28, 2011 establishing a long-term capacity agreement pilot program (LCAPP) which provides for 2,000 MW of subsidized
base load or mid-merit electric power generation. This bill may have the effect of artificially depressing prices in the competitive wholesale market and thus has the potential to harm competitive markets, on both a short-term and a long-term basis.
Other states, such as Maryland, are also examining similar programs. Construction of new subsidized local generation also has the potential to reduce the need for the construction of new transmission to transport remote generation and alleviate
system constraints. The lack of consistent rules in energy markets can negatively impact the competitiveness of our plants.

Environmental issues, such as restrictions on carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and other pollutants, may also have a competitive impact on us to the extent that it becomes more expensive
for some of our plants to remain compliant, thus affecting our ability to be a lower-cost provider compared to competitors without such restrictions. In addition, most of our plants, which are located in the Northeast where rules are more stringent,
can be at an economic disadvantage compared to our competitors in certain Midwest states. While our generation fleet is relatively low-emitting, additional restrictions could have a negative impact on certain of our units, including our coal units.







In addition, pressures from renewable resources, such as wind and solar, could increase over time,
especially if government incentive programs continue to grow. For example, many parts of the country, including the mid-western region within the footprint of the Midwest Independent System Operator, the California ISO and the PJM region, have
either implemented or are considering implementing changes to their respective regional transmission planning processes that will enable the construction of large amounts of transmission to move renewable generation to load centers. The FERC is
considering ordering all FERC-jurisdictional regions to effectuate such changes to the planning processes to facilitate the integration of renewable resources. See discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation below.

PSE&G

The transmission and
distribution business has minimal risks from competitors. Our transmission and distribution business is minimally impacted when customers choose alternate electric or gas suppliers since we earn our return by providing transmission and distribution
service, not by supplying the commodity. The demand for electric energy and gas by customers is affected by customer conservation, economic conditions, weather and other factors not within our control.

Changes in the current policies for building new transmission lines, such as the proposal by FERC to eliminate provisions for us to have the “right
of first refusal” to construct projects in our service territory, could result in additional competition to build transmission lines in our area in the future and would allow us to seek opportunities to build in other service territories.
Moreover, as discussed in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation below, the court’s elimination of national electric transmission corridors may impact upon future transmission build.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 9,965 employees
within our subsidiaries, including 6,451 covered under collective bargaining agreements.



Employees as of December 31, 2010PowerPSE&GEnergyHoldingsServicesNon-Union1,2921,178181,026Union1,5114,93109Total Employees2,8036,109181,035Number of Union Groups35N/A1

All of our collective bargaining
agreements, except one will expire on April 30, 2013 or later. The one exception is an agreement at PSE&G that covers 1,218 employees. This agreement expires on April 30, 2011.

REGULATORY ISSUES

Federal Regulation

FERC

FERC is an
independent federal agency that regulates the transmission of electric energy and gas in interstate commerce and the sale of electric energy and gas at wholesale pursuant to the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the Natural Gas Act. PSE&G and the
generation and energy trading subsidiaries of Power are public utilities as defined by the FPA. FERC has extensive oversight over “public utilities” as defined by the FPA. FERC approval is usually required when a “public utility”
company seeks to: sell or acquire an asset that is regulated by FERC (such as a transmission line or a generating station); collect costs from customers associated with a new transmission facility; charge a rate for wholesale sales under a contract
or tariff; or engage in certain mergers and internal corporate reorganizations.

FERC also regulates generating facilities known as qualifying
facilities (QFs). QFs are cogeneration facilities that produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy, or small power production facilities where







the primary energy source is renewable, biomass, waste, or geothermal resources. QFs must meet certain criteria established by FERC. We own various QFs through Energy Holdings. QFs are subject to
some, but not all, of the same FERC requirements as public utilities.

FERC also regulates RTOs/ISOs, such as PJM, and their energy and
capacity markets.

For us, the major effects of FERC regulation fall into five general categories:



•Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Energy Clearing Prices



•Capacity Market Issues



•Transmission Regulation



•Compliance

Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Market Power—Under FERC regulations, public utilities must receive FERC authorization to sell power in interstate commerce. They can
sell power at cost-based rates or apply to FERC for authority to make market based rate (MBR) sales. For a requesting company to receive MBR authority, FERC must first make a determination that the requesting company lacks market power in the
relevant markets. FERC requires that holders of MBR tariffs file an update every three years demonstrating that they continue to lack market power.

PSE&G and certain subsidiaries of Power have received MBR authority from FERC. Retention of MBR authority is critical to the maintenance of our generation business’ revenues.

Under MBR rules, FERC may look at sub-markets to analyze whether a company possesses market power. Applying these rules in October 2008,
FERC granted PSE&G, PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC and PSEG Power Connecticut LLC continued MBR authority and granted both PSEG Fossil LLC and PSEG Nuclear LLC initial MBR authority. Each of these companies filed for an update of its
MBR authority in December 2010. Interventions and comments with respect to this MBR filing are due at the FERC by the end of February. A decision is expected in 2011.



•Cost-Based RMR Agreements—FERC has permitted public utility generation owners to enter into RMR agreements that provide cost-based
compensation to a generation owner when a unit proposed for retirement is asked to continue operating for reliability purposes. On November 11, 2010, PJM officially notified Power that it will need the Hudson 1 generating station to remain in
service through September 1, 2012 to ensure grid reliability during the summer of 2012 given the delays associated with the Susquehanna-Roseland project. In January 2011, Power filed at FERC for extension of the RMR agreement for Hudson Unit 1
through September 1, 2012.

In ISO-NE, many owners of generation facilities have also filed for RMR
treatment. During 2010, we collected FERC-approved monthly payments for the Bridgeport Harbor Station Unit 2 and the New Haven Harbor Station under agreements that expired in June 2010.







Energy Clearing Prices

Energy clearing prices in the markets in which we operate are generally based on bids submitted by generating units. Under FERC-approved rules, bids are
subject to price caps and mitigation rules applicable to certain generation units. FERC rules also govern the overall design of these markets. At present, all units receive a single clearing price based on the bid of the marginal unit (i.e. the last
unit that must be dispatched to serve the needs of load). These FERC rules have a direct impact on the energy prices received by our units.

Capacity Market Issues

PJM, NYISO, and ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have
been approved by FERC.

RPM is a locational installed capacity market design for the PJM region, including a forward auction for installed
capacity. Under RPM, generators located in constrained areas within PJM are paid more for their capacity as an incentive to ensure adequate supply where generation capacity is most needed. PJM’s RPM and related FERC orders establishing prices
paid to us and other generators as a result of RPM’s transitional auctions were challenged in court by various state public utility commissions, including the BPU. On February 8, 2011 the DC Circuit Court of Appeals issued a decision
upholding FERC orders denying this challenge to the transitional auction results. Moreover, the mechanics of RPM in PJM continue to evolve and be refined in stakeholder proceedings in which we are active, and there is currently significant
discussion about the future role of demand response in the RPM market.

Pursuant to a settlement that established the design of ISO-NE’s
market for installed capacity and which was implemented gradually over a four-year period that commenced in December 2006, all generators in New England began receiving fixed capacity payments that escalate gradually over the transition period. The
market design consists of a forward-looking auction for installed capacity that is intended to recognize the locational value of generators on the system and contains incentive mechanisms to encourage generator availability during generation
shortages. As in PJM, capacity market rules in the ISO-NE continue to develop. Power has challenged in court the results of the ISO-NE’s first forward capacity auction, arguing that its units received inadequate compensation notwithstanding the
location of its resources in a constrained area. This case is pending at the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. Power and other generators have also filed a complaint at FERC regarding the ISO-NE’s capacity market design, alleging that it
insufficiently reflects locational capacity values. This complaint is also pending.

NYISO operates a short-term capacity market that provides
a forward price signal only for six months into the future. The NYISO capacity model recognizes only two separate zones that potentially may separate in price: New York City and Long Island. Discussions concerning potential changes to NYISO capacity
markets are also ongoing.

Recent legislative developments in the State of New Jersey have the potential to adversely impact RPM
prices. On January 28, 2011, New Jersey enacted a new law establishing LCAPP. This law calls for New Jersey electric distribution companies such as PSE&G to subsidize 2,000 MWs of new generation capacity in New Jersey for a term
of up to 15 years. The law also provides for the BPU to hold an expedited process to select generators to receive these subsidies and to perform a net benefits test examining economic, community and environmental benefits associated with
generating projects. The BPU has commenced this process, which requires the submission of binding generator bids by March 7, 2011 and selection of eligible generators by March 30, 2011. Once generators are selected, the electric
distribution companies will then be required to enter into irrevocable, financially settled, standard offer capacity agreements (SOCA). The SOCA will require that the generator bid in and clear the PJM RPM base residual auction in each year of
the SOCA term. The SOCA will provide for the electric distribution companies to make capacity payments to, or receive capacity payments from, the generators as calculated based on the difference between the RPM clearing price for each year of
the term and the price bid and accepted for that generator in the BPU process.







The LCAPP legislation is being challenged both at FERC and in court. In February, PSEG and a group of
other generators filed a complaint at the FERC seeking to prevent the subsidized generation from interfering with the wholesale capacity market and a case in federal district court arguing that the legislation is unconstitutional and should be
invalidated. Both actions are pending. In addition, PJM has made a filing at FERC that, if accepted by FERC, would significantly mitigate the effect of this subsidized generation on the RPM market clearing prices for capacity.

Transmission Regulation

FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to establish the rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate transmission. We currently have FERC-approved formula rates in effect to recover the costs of our
transmission facilities. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are then trued up the following year to reflect actual annual
expenses/capital expenditures. Our allowed ROE is 11.68% for both existing and new transmission investments, and we have received incentive rates, affording a higher ROE, for certain large scale transmission investments. For additional information
on our transmission rates and the annual true-ups, see Item 7. MD&A – Overview of 2010 and Future Outlook.



•Transmission Policy Developments— In June 2010, FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR) proposing to modify current
transmission planning and cost allocation processes. Specifically, FERC has proposed that transmission planning take into account “public policy” requirements established by state or federal laws or regulations, such as state Renewable
Portfolio Requirements. FERC has also questioned whether it is appropriate for transmission planning to utilize a “bright line” test to identify needed transmission projects or whether “flexible criteria” should be used. These
proposed changes would likely result in more transmission being planned and constructed.

FERC has also
proposed to eliminate provisions in FERC-approved tariffs or agreements that permit a transmission owner within whose franchised service territory a transmission project is being constructed to exercise a “right of first refusal” to
construct the project. FERC has not yet acted to issue a Final Rule. There are also two pending FERC litigated proceedings, in which we are a party, addressing and challenging this proposed change to the “right of first refusal.” A change
in FERC rules or adverse decisions in these proceedings could result in third parties constructing transmission within PSE&G’s service territory in the future.



•



Transmission Expansion







On February 3, 2011, certain environmental groups that were parties to the BPU
proceeding approving the Susquehanna-Roseland line filed a motion to reopen the agency record on the grounds of “changed circumstances,” including the delay in construction of the project and PJM’s issuance of a new load forecast
report. PSE&G believes that there are no grounds to reopen the record. The same parties have also appealed the BPU order to the NJ Appellate Division and this appeal remains pending.

FERC has granted our request for incentive rate treatment for the Susquehanna-Roseland line, including an adder of 125 basis points above
our base ROE, recovery of 100% of Construction Work in Progress (CWIP) in rate base and authorization to recover 100% of all prudently incurred development and construction costs if the project is abandoned or cancelled, in whole or in part, for
reasons beyond our control.

In December 2008, PJM approved another 500 kV transmission project, originating in Branchburg and
ending in Hudson County, New Jersey, with an estimated cost of $1.1 billion. In December 2009, FERC granted our request for the same incentive rate treatment on this project as the Susquehanna-Roseland line. Subsequently, PJM approved a modified 230
kV project, in place of the 500 kV line, originating in Roseland and terminating in Hudson County, at an estimated cost of up to $700 million. The project has an expected in-service date of June 2015. Development and siting activities for this
project are expected to commence in 2011. In November 2010, we filed a notice with FERC regarding the change in project scope. The BPU and the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel each filed objections to the continuation of the previously-awarded
rate incentives to the reconfigured project. We have filed responsive pleadings and believe that the modified project should be eligible for the same rate incentives as the original project, but the matter remains pending at FERC.

PJM has approved in its Regional Transmission Expansion Plan several other 230 kV transmission projects to be constructed by PSE&G.
PSE&G filed at FERC for recovery of CWIP in rate base for four of these projects (Burlington-Camden project, West Orange project, Middlesex Switch Rack project and Bayonne-Marion project) and 100% abandonment cost recovery for these projects. On
December 30, 2010, the FERC denied PSE&G’s request without prejudice, finding that PSE&G had not met the requirements for incentive treatment on a project-by-project basis and affording PSE&G the option to re-file and justify
the requested incentives on a project-by-project, rather than on an aggregate, basis. PSE&G is currently considering this option.

In February 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the 9thCircuit issued a decision vacating the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) 2006 Congestion Study and the two national transmission corridor designations resulting from the study, including the
Mid-Atlantic Corridor which encompasses all of the State of New Jersey. FERC back-stop siting authority permits an entity building transmission to site the project at FERC under certain circumstances, including a State’s failure to act
within one year. However, since this authority only attaches to transmission located within a DOE-designated corridor, FERC back-stop siting authority is now unavailable to companies building transmission in New Jersey, such as PSE&G.



•PJM Transmission Rate Design—In 2007, FERC addressed the issue of how transmission rates, paid by PJM transmission customers and
ultimately paid by our retail customers, should be designed in PJM. FERC ruled that the cost of new high voltage (500 kV and above) transmission facilities in PJM would be regionalized and paid for by all transmission customers on a pro-rata basis.
Each share is calculated annually based upon a zone’s load ratio share within PJM. For all existing facilities, costs would be allocated using the pre-existing zonal rate design. For new lower voltage transmission facilities, costs would be
allocated using a “beneficiary pays” approach. This FERC decision was subsequently upheld on rehearing but was then appealed by other parties to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.







In August 2009, the Court ruled that with respect to new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned
facilities, FERC had not adequately justified its decision to regionalize these costs. Certain parties sought rehearing of the Court’s decision, which requests were denied. The case was then remanded to FERC for further proceedings. FERC has
not yet issued a decision. The current allocation for new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned projects may remain in place or could be modified by FERC.

Compliance



•Reliability Standards—Congress has required FERC to put in place, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC),
national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. Many reliability standards have been developed and approved. These standards apply
both to reliability of physical assets interconnected to the bulk power system and to the protection of critical cyber assets. Our California generation assets, as well as our New Jersey utility operations, have already undergone formal audits, and
our generation assets in PJM, ISO-NE and the NYISO will be audited in 2011. In addition, many of our operating companies have been subject to spot audits. NERC compliance represents a significant area of compliance responsibility for us and a
challenging one. As new standards are developed and approved, existing standards are revised and registration requirements are modified which could increase our compliance responsibilities.

Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was passed in an attempt to reduce systemic risk in the financial markets thereby preventing future financial
crises and market issues such as those experienced recently. As part of this new legislation, the SEC and the CFTC will be implementing new rules to enact stricter regulation over swaps and derivatives since many of the issues experienced were
caused by derivative trading in connection with mortgage loans. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act will require many swaps and other derivative transactions to be standardized and traded on exchanges or other Derivative Clearing Organizations (DCOs).

CFTC has issued NOPRs on many of the key issues, including:



•defining swap dealers and major swap participants;



•the end-user exception from clearing requirements;



•position limits; and



•reporting requirements.

A
number of other critical issues, such as the defining swap and capital and margin requirements, still need to be addressed.

Exchanges and DCOs
typically require full collateralization of all transactions taking place on the exchange or DCO. Although the Dodd-Frank Act specifically recognizes a commercial end user exemption from posting additional collateral in the bilateral Over the
Counter swap and derivative markets, we cannot assess the exact scope of the new rules until the SEC and CFTC issues them. Under the current NOPRs, the broad definition of swap dealer could result in us being classified as a dealer, which would
limit the benefits of the commercial end-user exemption recognized in the Act. We expect the final rules to be issued later in 2011. We believe that any regulatory change that deviates from the original intent would need to be addressed by
additional legislation. We will carefully monitor these new rules as they are developed to analyze the potential impact on our swap and derivatives transactions, including any potential increase in our collateral requirements.







Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

Our operation of nuclear generating facilities is subject to comprehensive regulation by the NRC, a federal agency established to regulate nuclear
activities to ensure protection of public health and safety, as well as the security and protection of the environment. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and
environmental requirements. Continuous demonstration to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements is also necessary. The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. In August 2009, we submitted
applications to extend the operating licenses of our Salem and Hope Creek facilities by 20 years. No parties have requested a hearing or intervention and the initial filing deadline for such a request as part of the NRC license renewal process has
passed. The NRC is expected to spend up to 30 months to review our applications before making a decision. The current operating licenses of our nuclear facilities expire in the years shown below:



UnitYearSalem Unit 12016Salem Unit 22020Hope Creek2026Peach Bottom Unit 22033Peach Bottom Unit 32034

In 2009, we also filed an application
for an Early Site Permit for a new nuclear generating station to be located at the current site of the Salem and Hope Creek generating stations.

State Regulation

Since our operations are primarily located within New Jersey, our
principal state regulator is the BPU, which oversees electric and natural gas distribution companies in New Jersey. Our utility operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of retail
electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance and sale of certain types of securities and compliance matters. BPU regulation can also have a direct or indirect impact on our power generation business as it relates to energy supply
agreements and energy policy in New Jersey.

We are also subject to some state regulation in California, Connecticut, Hawaii, New Hampshire,
New York and Pennsylvania due to our ownership of generation and/or transmission facilities in those states.

Rates

Electric and Gas Base Rates—In May 2009, we petitioned the BPU for an increase in electric and gas
distribution base rates. We filed an update in March 2010 requesting an increase of $140 million and $64 million for electric and gas, respectively.

In June 2010 the BPU adopted a stipulation settling the electric portion of our base rate case, including the electric revenue requirement, the capital structure, re-setting the electric component of the
Capital Adjustment Charges (CAC), as well as accepting the modifications to the electric tariff. The new electric rates were put into effect on June 7, 2010. The settlement included a $73.5 million increase in annual electric revenues and an
allowed ROE of 10.3%. In July 2010, the BPU approved the gas revenue requirement and rate design set forth in the stipulation, including resetting the gas CAC and an allowed ROE of 10.3%, resulting in a $26.5 million increase effective
July 9, 2010. The BPU also approved PSE&G’s gas weather normalization clause.

Retail Gas Transportation
Rates—In July 2010, as part of PSE&G’s gas base rate proceeding, the BPU ordered a supplemental and expedited review of certain issues related to the gas transportation rate that PSE&G charges to Power. Also in July, a
complaint was filed by an independent power generator against Power at FERC related to the gas transportation rate.







On December 16, 2010, the BPU approved a settlement that resolved all remaining issues
in PSE&G’s base rate case. The settlement provisions include the following:



•there will be no retroactive adjustments or refunds made by PSE&G with respect to the gas delivery charges,



•the natural gas delivery rate charged by PSE&G to Power may not be altered for any reason until after the conclusion of a BPU generic proceeding to
establish rules governing discounting of such agreements and a subsequent filing implementing any such rule, provided however, that if the generic proceeding is not completed within 24 months, PSE&G may file with the BPU to seek a change in
rates for gas transportation service to Power, and



•PSE&G to prospectively charge certain other generating facilities a rate comparable to the charges to Power for a period of three years.



•The settlement also provides for a release of all claims in the complaint filed at FERC, which has been withdrawn.

The BPU has commenced a generic proceeding to evaluate the process and standards for all utilities to provide discounts to their gas
delivery customers. The issues being addressed as part of this proceeding include:



•the legality of charging discounted utility gas distribution rates,



•the legality of established discounted gas utility distribution rates through contracts and whether current or future contracts may be
“evergreened”,



•the criteria and process that the BPU should establish to determine whether or not an entity has an ability to bypass the utility’s gas
distribution system,



•whether other considerations unrelated to system bypass should be used to justify discounts and, if so, what rates should be charged, and



•the applicability of Societal Benefits Charges (SBC), Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) and Capital Adjustment Charges (CAC) prospectively to
customers with an ability to bypass the utility’s gas distribution system.

Several stakeholder meetings
have been held and briefs were submitted at the end of January 2011.







Rate Adjustment Clauses—In addition to base rates, we recover certain
costs from customers pursuant to mechanisms, known as adjustment clauses. These clauses permit, at set intervals, the flow-through of costs to customers related to specific programs, outside the context of base rate case proceedings. Recovery of
these costs is subject to BPU approval. Costs associated with these clauses are deferred when incurred and amortized to expense when recovered in revenues. Delays in the pass-through of costs under these clauses can result in significant changes in
cash flow. Our SBC and Non-utility Generation Charges (NGC) clauses are detailed in the following table:



Rate Clause2010 Revenue(Over) Under RecoveredBalanceas of December 31, 2010MillionsEnergy Efficiency and Renewable Energy$205$(14)Universal Service Fund (USF)16123Social Programs4665Total SBC41274Remediation Adjustment Charges (RAC)36119NGC17666Gas Weather Normalization0(9)Total$624$250



•SBC—The SBC is a mechanism designed to ensure recovery of costs associated with activities required to be accomplished to achieve
specific government-mandated public policy determinations. The programs that are covered by the SBC (gas and electric) are energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, and the USF. In addition, the electric SBC includes a Social Programs
component. All components include interest on both over and under recoveries.



•Remediation Adjustment Clause (RAC)—The RAC recovers the costs to clean up manufactured gas plants.



•NGC—The NGC recovers the above market costs associated with the long-term power purchase contracts with non-utility generators
approved by the BPU.



•Gas Weather Normalization Clause—Effective with the 2010 base rate case the BPU approved the implementation of a gas weather
normalization clause. The purpose of the clause is to remove the gas earnings volatility caused by variations in the weather over the winter period, which is defined as October through May. To the extent that the cumulative winter period is colder
than normal, we will be required to refund to customers the excess margin collected as a result of the weather. To the extent that the cumulative winter period is warmer than normal, we have the opportunity to collect from customers the
resulting margin shortfall subject to an earnings test. In this instance, collections from customers would only be allowed to the extent they did not cause our return on equity from our gas operations to exceed 10.3%. The earnings test is
measured using a 12-month period beginning October 1.

The cumulative weather for October through
December 2010 has been colder than normal. As a result, at December 31, 2010, we have recorded a regulatory liability of $9 million to defer the excess margin collected for that period. The ultimate amount refunded to customers, if any,
will depend on the weather for the balance of the winter period.



•Recent Rate Adjustments

USF/Lifeline—The USF is an energy assistance program mandated by the BPU to provide payment assistance to low income customers. The Lifeline program is a separately mandated energy
assistance program to provide payment assistance to elderly and disabled customers. On June 30, 2010, the State’s electric and gas utilities filed to reset the statewide rates for the USF and the Lifeline program.







The filed rates were subsequently updated and approved effective November 1, 2010 in a written Order dated October 20, 2010. The filed rates were set to recover $215 million on a
statewide basis. Of this amount, the revised statewide electric rates will recover $150 million and the statewide gas rates will recover $65 million. The rates for the Lifeline program are set to recover $73 million; $49 million and $24 million for
electric and gas respectively. We earn no margin on the collection of the USF and Lifeline programs resulting in no impact on Net Income.

SBC/NGC—In February 2009, we filed a petition requesting a decrease in our electric SBC/NGC rates of $18.9 million and an increase in gas SBC rates of $3.7 million. In July 2009, a
revision was filed requesting an increase in SBC/NGC rates of $104 million and $15 million for electric and gas, respectively. The electric increase was due to increased non-utility generation (NUG) contract costs. The Administrative Law Judge (ALJ)
issued an initial decision in April 2010 that recommended a revenue increase of $119 million and a disallowance of approximately $254,000 in PJM costs from the NGC and approximately $540,000 of interest that accrued on the electric SBC. Although
PSE&G filed exceptions to the recommendation, the BPU issued a written order in June 2010, adopting the ALJ’s initial decision. PSE&G filed a notice of appeal in August 2010 regarding the disallowances related to the NGC and
electric SBC. We cannot predict the outcome of this appeal.

In August 2010, PSE&G made its 2010 annual SBC/NGC filing
requesting an $85.4 million electric increase and a $17.2 million gas decrease. This matter was transferred to the Office of Administrative Law (OAL) for establishment of a procedural schedule and hearings.

On February 11, 2011, PSE&G filed a stipulation of settlement with the ALJ. The stipulation was executed by all parties and will
allow PSE&G to increase its electric SBC/NGC rates by $85.4 million and decrease its gas SBC rates by $17.2 million, both on an annual basis. The stipulation must be approved by the ALJ and the BPU.

RAC—In November 2009, we filed a RAC 17 petition with the BPU requesting an increase in electric and gas RAC rates of
approximately $13 million and $11 million, respectively. In August 2010, the BPU issued an order approving a settlement agreement which provides for the recovery of $24 million for the twelve months ended July 2009.

In November 2010, we filed a RAC 18 petition with the BPU requesting an increase in electric and gas RAC rates of approximately $3 million
and $1 million, respectively. This matter was transferred to the OAL for establishment of a procedural schedule.

Energy
Supply



•BGS—New Jersey’s EDCs provide two types of BGS, the default electric
supply service for customers who do not have a third party supplier. The first type, which represents about 82% of PSE&G’s load requirements, provides default supply service for smaller industrial and commercial customers and residential
customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Fixed Price). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type
provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-CIEP).

All of New Jersey’s EDCs jointly procure the supply to meet their BGS obligations through two concurrent auctions authorized each year by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These
auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers provide BGS to New Jersey’s EDCs. PSE&G earns no margin on the provision of BGS.







PSE&G’s total BGS-Fixed Price eligible load is expected to be approximately 8,500
MW. Approximately one-third of this load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. Current pricing is as follows:



200820092010201136 Month Terms EndingMay 2011May 2012May 2013May 2014(A)Eligible Load (MW)2,8002,9002,8002,800$ per kWh0.111500.103720.095770.09430



(A)Prices set in the February 2011 BGS Auction are effective on June 1, 2011 when the 2008 BGS agreements expire.

The BPU once again approved the auction process for 2011, however two changes were made. The BPU determined that the additional charge
known as the “Retail Margin” charge should be eliminated and the threshold for hourly pricing should be lowered to include non-residential customers with a peak load of 750 kW or more. The Retail Energy Supply Association has filed a
Petition for the BPU to reconsider the Retail margin portion of the decision.

For additional information, see Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

BGSS—BGSS is the mechanism approved by the BPU designed to recover all gas costs related to the supply for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each
year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE&G’s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability
to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time.

PSE&G has a full requirements contract through March 2012 with Power to meet the supply requirements of default service gas customers. Power charges PSE&G for gas commodity costs which PSE&G
recovers from customers. Any difference between rates charged by Power under the BGSS contract and rates charged to PSE&G’s residential customers are deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. PSE&G earns no
margin on the provision of BGSS.

In July 2010, PSE&G self-implemented a reduction in the BGSS rate. The reduction targets
an approximate $90 million decrease in the BGSS deferred balance on an annual basis. The reduction in the BGSS-Residential Service Gas (RSG) Commodity Charge for a typical gas residential heating customer was a decrease of approximately 5%.

Also in July 2010, PSE&G made its annual BGSS filing with the BPU. The filing requested a decrease in annual BGSS revenue
of $123 million, excluding sales and use tax, to be effective October 1, 2010. This represented a reduction of approximately 6.8% for a typical residential gas heating customer. The new BGSS rate was approved by the BPU in September 2010, on a
provisional basis, and was made effective immediately. Subsequent to these two reductions, PSE&G filed and self-implemented an additional reduction to the BGSS rate in December. This reduction targeted an approximate $69 million decrease in the
BGSS deferred balance. The reduction in the BGSS-RSG Commodity Charge for a typical gas residential heating customer was a decrease of approximately 5%. We are awaiting BPU approval finalizing the BGSS-RSG rates for the current period.

Energy Policy

New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP)—New Jersey law requires that an EMP be developed every three years, the purpose of which is to ensure safe, secure and reasonably-priced energy
supply, foster economic growth and development and protect the environment. The most recent EMP was finalized in October 2008. The plan identifies a number of the actions to improve energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable resources, ensure
a reliable supply of energy and stimulate investment in clean energy technologies.







We have approval from the BPU to implement several programs addressing different components
of the EMP goals to improve efficiencies in customer use and increase the level of renewable generation in New Jersey.

On
October 1, 2010, we filed a petition with the BPU for an increase in the RGGI Recovery Charge (RRC), seeking to recover approximately $48 million in electric revenue and $11 million in gas revenue on an annual basis. The required annual filing
seeks to reset the RRC rate components for five programs. These include Carbon Abatement, the EEE Stimulus Program, the Demand Response Program, Solar 4 All, and the Solar Loan II Program.

During 2010, the Governor of New Jersey directed the BPU to review the State’s current EMP. We expect the BPU to release a new draft
EMP during the first quarter of 2011 with a final plan expected to be completed later in the year. We cannot predict what modifications or new goals will be included in the new EMP or the potential impacts to our businesses.

Solar Initiatives—In order to spur investment in solar power in New Jersey and meet renewable energy goals under the
existing EMP we have undertaken two major initiatives at PSE&G. The first program helps finance the installation of 81 MW of solar systems throughout our electric service area by providing loans to customers. The first part of this initiative
was a pilot program approved by the BPU in April 2008. The BPU approved an expansion of the program in November 2009. The borrowers can repay the loans over a period of either 10 years (for residential customer loans) or 15 years (for
non-residential customers), by providing us with solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs) or cash. The value of the SRECs towards the repayment of the loan is guaranteed to be not less than a floor price. SRECs received by us in repayment of the
loan are sold through a periodic auction. Proceeds will be used to offset program costs.

The total investment of both phases
of the Solar Loan Program will be approximately $250 million once the program is fully subscribed, projects are built and loans are closed. As of December 31, 2010, we have provided a total of $70 million in loans for 196 projects representing
19 MW.

The second solar initiative is the Solar 4 All Program that was approved by the BPU in July 2009. Under this program,
we are investing approximately $465 million to develop 80 MW of utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) systems over four years. The program consists of systems 500kW or greater installed on PSE&G-owned property (25 MW), solar panels installed on
distribution system poles (40 MW) and PV systems installed on third-party sites in our electric service territory (15 MW). We will sell the energy and capacity from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition we will sell the
SRECs received from the projects through the same auction used in the loan program. Proceeds from these sales will be used to offset program costs.

As of December 31, 2010, 15 MW of solar panels had been installed on distribution poles with an investment of approximately $110 million. In addition during 2010, 13 MW representing 11 projects were
placed in service with an investment of approximately $70 million. An additional 6 MW is expected to be placed into service in the first quarter of 2011 and additional projects are in various stages of negotiation and development.

Demand Response (DR)—In 2008 the BPU directed that DR programs be implemented by each of New Jersey’s electric
utilities and established targets to increase DR by the end of the third year by a total of 600 MW, of which we are responsible for 55% (330 MW). We filed our program proposal and identified $93.4 million of demand response investment over a period
of four years, seeking full recovery of the program costs, including a return on our investment, through rates.

In July 2009,
the BPU approved a portion of our program that focuses on air conditioning load control in the residential and small commercial customer segments. The investment represents $65.3 million with a target of 150 MW to be achieved.

In October 2010 we petitioned the BPU to expand the number of participants in the residential cycling program by 57,000 for a total of
approximately 225,000 residential participants, due to a lower per-unit







installation cost. The request is still pending. The remainder of our original filing has been inactive at the BPU since July 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had installed approximately 19
MW.

Energy Efficiency Initiatives—We have been approved by the BPU to implement two energy efficiency
initiatives, both of which were filed under New Jersey’s RGGI legislation, which encourages utilities to invest in conservation and energy efficiency programs as part of their regulated business. Both initiatives are intended to help New Jersey
meet its EMP goal of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to help improve New Jersey’s economy through the creation of new jobs through the promotion of energy efficiency.



•Energy Efficiency Economic Stimulus Program—In July 2009, the BPU approved our energy efficiency program developed to stimulate
economic growth in the state. Under this program, we anticipated approximately $166 million in energy efficiency capital expenditures over an 18-month period. The program provides for a charge for recovery of program expenditures plus an allowed
return. As of December 2010, $100 million of the $166 million had been invested. The initiatives target multiple customer segments. Subprograms provide energy audits and incentives for energy retrofit services to homes and small businesses in
Urban Enterprise Zone municipalities, multi-family buildings, hospitals, data centers and governmental entities. Other initiative components include funding for new technologies and demonstration projects, and a program to encourage non-residential
customers to reduce energy use through improvements in the operation and maintenance of their facilities.

In
January 2011, we filed for approval of an Energy Efficiency Economic (EEE) Extension Program to extend three central EEE subprograms (multi-family, municipal and hospital) which are currently in operation and are fully subscribed with a backlog of
customer applications. We proposed to extend the subprograms’ offerings under the same process, terms and conditions as currently approved while seeking additional capital expenditures of approximately $95 million.



•Carbon Abatement Program—The BPU approved our proposal to invest up to $46 million over four years on a small scale carbon abatement
program across specific customer segments. For each year of the program we will file a petition on October 1 to set forth the calculation of the electric and gas recovery charges for the subsequent year. The BPU approved a rate increase in
December 2009, which resulted in a net annual revenue increase of $1.9 million in 2010. The petition filed in October 2010 for setting the recovery charges for 2011 is still pending. As of December 31, 2010, $20 million of the approved $46
million investment had been spent on energy efficiency measures.

Capital Economic Stimulus
Infrastructure Program—In January 2009, we filed for approval of a capital economic stimulus infrastructure investment program. Under this initiative, we proposed to undertake $698 million of capital infrastructure investments over a 24
month period. The goal of these accelerated capital investments is to help improve the State’s economy through the creation of new jobs. We made this filing in response to the Governor of New Jersey’s proposal to help revive the economy
through job growth and capital spending.

In April 2009, the BPU approved a settlement agreement which identified 38 qualifying
projects totaling $694 million. The CAC will be adjusted each January based on forecasted program expenditures and will be subject to deferred accounting.

PSE&G spent $180 million on approved infrastructure projects in 2009 and collected approximately $11 million through the CAC.

The CAC rates were adjusted on a provisional basis on January 1, 2010. At the conclusion of PSE&G’s base rate case in June and July 2010, the infrastructure projects that were placed in
service through the end of 2009 were rolled into rate base rate and the CAC rates were adjusted accordingly, again on a provisional basis. PSE&G spent $408 million on approved infrastructure projects in 2010 and collected approximately $36
million through the CAC.







In November 2010, PSE&G made its second annual filing seeking an update to the CAC rates
that would provide for approximately $25 million through June 2011 to cover the remaining $108 million infrastructure investments under the program.

Also in November 2010, we filed for an extension of the gas Capital Stimulus program, seeking BPU approval for approximately $78 million in gas infrastructure investments over a two-year period. We also
filed to roll-in to rate base the unrecovered Capital Stimulus expenditures for projects that would be placed in service by June 30, 2011. If approved, this roll-in will result in an increase in the electric and gas base rates of $41 million
and $22 million, respectively, with a corresponding reduction in the CAC. We are awaiting a decision on this matter.

In
February 2011, we filed for an extension of the electric Capital Stimulus program, seeking BPU approval for approximately $229 million in electric infrastructure investments over a 26-month period.

Consolidated Tax Adjustments

New Jersey is one of five states that make consolidated tax adjustments. These adjustments are intended to allocate tax benefits realized by non-regulated subsidiaries to utility customers under certain
circumstances. The generic proceeding that we originally anticipated during 2010, which was expected to address the appropriateness of the adjustment and the methodology and mechanics of the calculation, has not yet commenced and no schedule has
been set for it.

BPU Audits

The BPU has statutory authority to conduct periodic audits of our utility’s operations and our compliance with applicable affiliate rules and competition standards. The BPU has begun conducting its
periodic combined management/competitive service audits of PSE&G.

Management/Affiliate Audit—The BPU
engaged a contractor to perform a comprehensive audit with respect to the effectiveness of management and transactions among affiliates, which began in October 2009. We expect that a draft report will be issued during 2011. The report can be
expected to include recommendations for changes in practices at PSE&G and its affiliates. We will have an opportunity to provide comments. The BPU may enforce the findings in whole or in part by Order.

Deferral Audit—The BPU Energy and Audit Division conducted audits of electric deferred balances that occurred during
the four year transition period from 1999 through 2003. A draft Deferral Audit—Phase II report relating to the 12-month period ended July 31, 2003 was released by the consultant to the BPU in April 2005. Effectively, this audit was closed
with the resolution of the Market Transition Charge issues. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional information.

RAC Audit—In February 2008, the BPU’s Division of Audits commenced a review of the RAC program for the RAC 12, 13
and 14 periods encompassing August 1, 2003 through July 31, 2006. Total RAC costs associated with this period were $83 million. In August 2010 we received a “No Action” letter from the BPU stating that no material issues were
found and the BPU staff now considers the audit to be closed.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Changing environmental laws and regulations significantly impact the manner in which our operations are currently conducted and impose costs on us to
reduce the health and environmental impacts of our operations. To the extent that environmental requirements are more stringent and compliance more costly in certain states where we operate compared to other states that are part of the same market,
such rules may impact our ability to compete within that market. Due to evolving environmental regulations, it is difficult to project future costs of compliance and their impact on competition. Capital costs of complying with known pollution
control requirements are included in our estimate of construction expenditures in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed by future regulations are not known
and are not included in capital expenditures, but may be material.







Areas of environmental regulation may include, but are not limited to:



•air pollution control,



•climate change



•water pollution control,



•hazardous substance liability, and



•fuel and waste disposal.

For additional information related to environmental matters, including anticipated expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, hazardous
substance liabilities and fuel and waste disposal costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Air Pollution Control

Our facilities are subject to federal regulation under the Clean Air
Act (CAA) which requires controls of emissions from sources of air pollution and imposes record keeping, reporting and permit requirements. Our facilities are also subject to requirements established under state and local air pollution laws.

Title V of the CAA requires all major sources, such as our generation facilities, to obtain and keep current an operating permit. The costs
of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed and included in these permits in the future could be material and are not included in capital expenditures.



•Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR)— Since 2009, the EPA has regulated nitrogen oxide (NOx)emissions and starting in 2010, regulated sulfur dioxide (SO2)emissions to reduce interstate air pollution transport among the 28
central and northeastern states and the District of Columbia. Our generating stations in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York are affected sources in the regulation. The purpose of the regulation is to improve Ozone and Fine Particulate (PM2.5) air
quality within states that have not demonstrated achievement of National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). CAIR was implemented through a cap-and-trade program and to date the impact has not been material to us as the allowances allocated to
our stations were sufficient. If 2011 operations are similar to 2009 and 2010, it is expected that the impact to operations from CAIR will not be significant. Starting January 2012, CAIR is expected to be replaced by the Clean Air Transport Rule
(see below).



•New Jersey NOx Regulation: High Electric Demand Day (HEDD)—In April 2009, the NJDEP finalized revisions to NOxemission control regulations that impose new NOxemission reduction requirements and limits for New Jersey fossil fuel
fired electric generation units. The rule has a significant impact on Power’s generation fleet, as it imposes
NOxemissions limits that will require significant capital
investment for controls or the retirement of 102 combustion turbines (approximately 2,000 MW) and five older New Jersey steam electric generation units (approximately 800 MW) by April 2015. We have been working with the NJDEP throughout the
development of this rulemaking to minimize financial impact and to provide for transitional lead time to address the retirement of electric generation units. Power cannot predict the financial impact resulting from compliance with this rulemaking.



•Clean Air Transport Rule (CATR)—In August 2010, the EPA proposed the CATR to limit emissions in 32 states that contribute to the
ability of downwind states to attain and/or maintain the 1997 and 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS and the 1997 ozone NAAQS. Beginning in 2012, emissions reductions would be governed by this rule, rather than the former CAIR. By 2014, the EPA estimates that this
rule, along with other concurrent state and EPA actions, would significantly reduce power plant SO2and NOxemissions. The EPA has acknowledged that further reductions may be necessary to meet expected future changes to Ozone and PM2.5 NAAQS. The proposed rule includes various options for rule form including cap and trade. The final rule is expected in
2011. The outcome of the EPA’s rulemaking and impact to PSEG cannot be predicted at this time.







The CAIR cap and trade program for SO2emissions made use of allowances created under the Acid Rain Program
(ARP). Emission reductions beyond those required by the ARP were to be achieved by increasing the surrender ratio for
SO2allowances from 1 allowance per ton of SO2emissions to 2 allowances per ton in 2010 and 2.86 allowances per ton in
2015, thereby effectively reducing the overall amount of SO2that could be emitted under the ARP cap. In July 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated CAIR and limited the EPA’s ability to use SO2allowances created under the ARP in any successor program to CAIR.

Hazardous Air Pollutants Regulation—In accordance with a court ruling, the EPA is expected to propose a Maximum
Achievable Control Technology (MACT) regulation by March 2011 and finalize it by November 2011. This regulation will include mercury reduction. In preparation for this action, the EPA solicited extensive stack-testing information from many coal and
oil fired electric generation units through a mandatory Information Collection Request (ICR). PSEG participated in this ICR and submitted the required information in 2010. According to the prescriptive MACT process, the EPA will select an emission
rate from the best performing units, by pollutant and/or surrogate, and units within a given category yet to be determined will have to have a lower emission rate than the selected rate by a set date, typically three to five years after the final
rule. The impact from this expected rule cannot be determined at this time.

Climate Change



•Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI)—In response to concerns over global climate change, some states have developed initiatives
to stimulate national climate legislation through CO2emission reductions in the electric power industry. Ten northeastern states, including New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, have established RGGI intended to cap and reduce CO2emissions in the region. In general, these states adopted state-specific rules to enable the RGGI regulatory mandate in
each state.

States’ rules make allowances available through a regional auction
whereby generators may acquire allowances that are each equal to one ton of CO2emissions. Generators are required to submit an allowance for each ton emitted over a three year period (e.g. 2009, 2010, and 2011). Allowances are available through the auction or through secondary
markets and are required to be submitted to states by March 2012 for the first period.

Pricing for the
allowances will vary based on future allowance market conditions, electric generation market conditions and the possibility of a national greenhouse gas (GHG) program that may or may not supplant RGGI. For the first three-year compliance period, we
have acquired sufficient allowances to compensate for CO2emissions from affected sources.

New Jersey also adopted the Global Warming Response Act in 2007, which calls for stabilizing
its greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, followed by a further reduction of greenhouse emissions to 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. To reach this goal, the NJDEP, the BPU, other state agencies and stakeholders are required to evaluate
methods to meet and exceed the emission reduction targets, taking into account their economic benefits and costs.



•CO2Regulation Under the Clean Air Act(CAA)—In April 2010, the EPA and the National Highway Transportation Safety Board (NHTSB)
jointly issued a final rule to regulate GHG emissions from certain motor vehicles (Motor Vehicle Rule). Under the CAA, the adoption of the Motor Vehicle Rule would have automatically subjected many emission sources, including ours, to CAA permitting
for new facilities and major facility modifications that increase the emission of GHGs, including CO2However, guidance issued by the EPA in March 2010 interpreted the CAA to require permitting for GHGs at other facilities, such as ours, only when the Motor Vehicle Rule takes effect in January 2011. In
May 2010, the EPA finalized a “Tailoring Rule” that will phase in, beginning in 2011, the application of this permitting requirement to facilities such as ours. The significance of the permitting requirement is that, in cases where a
new source is constructed or an existing source undergoes a major modification, the owner of the facility would need to evaluate and perhaps install best available control technology (BACT) for GHG emissions.







In November 2010, the EPA published guidance to state and local
permitting authorities to undertake BACT determinations for new and modified emission sources. The guidance does not specify the specific technology or technologies that should be considered BACT. The guidance does emphasize the use of energy
efficiency, and specifically states that the technology of storing CO2under the earth, also known as carbon capture and storage, is not yet mature enough to be considered a viable alternative at this stage. The practical effect of this guidance document is unclear in the
context of applying the Tailoring Rule to specific facilities. In December 2010, the EPA also announced a schedule for proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for GHGs from power plants and refineries. For electric generating units, the EPA
must propose a rule by July 2011, and issue a final rule by May 2012. The NSPS applies to both the construction of new sources as well as the modification of existing sources. Unlike BACT, NSPS sets a floor which all facilities must meet for a
particular pollutant. Since a proposed rule has not been published, the outcome of the rulemaking and its significance to the company cannot be predicted.



•Climate Related Legislation—The federal government may consider legislative proposals to define a national energy policy and address
climate change. Proposals under consideration include, but are not limited to, provisions to establish a national clean energy portfolio standard and to establish an energy efficiency resource standard. Proposed provisions may present
material risks and opportunities to our businesses. The final design of any legislation will determine the impact on us, which we are not now able to reasonably estimate.



•CO2Litigation—In addition to legislative and regulatory initiatives, the outcome of certain legal proceedings regarding alleged impacts
of global climate change not involving our companies could be material to the future liability of energy companies. Litigation has been commenced by individuals, local governments and interest groups alleging that various industries, including
various energy companies, emitted greenhouse gases causing global climate change that resulted in a variety of damages. If relevant federal or state common law were to develop that imposed liability upon those that emit greenhouse gases for alleged
impacts of greenhouse gas emissions, such potential liability to us could be material.

Water Pollution Control

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) prohibits the discharge of pollutants to U.S. waters from point sources, except pursuant
to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the EPA or by a state under a federally authorized state program. The FWPCA authorizes the imposition of technology-based and water quality-based effluent limits to
regulate the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and ground waters. The EPA has delegated authority to a number of state agencies, including those in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, to administer the NPDES program through state acts.
We also have ownership interests in facilities in other jurisdictions that have their own laws and implement regulations to control discharges to their surface waters and ground waters that directly govern our facilities in those jurisdictions.

In addition to regulating the discharge of pollutants, the FWPCA regulates the intake of surface waters for cooling. The use of cooling water
is a significant part of the generation of electricity at steam-electric generating stations. Section 316(b) of the FWPCA requires that cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental
impact. The impact of regulations under Section 316(b) can be significant, particularly at steam-electric generating stations which do not have closed cycle cooling through the use of cooling towers to recycle water for cooling purposes. The
installation of cooling towers at an existing generating station can impose significant engineering challenges and significant costs, which can affect the economic viability of a particular plant.

For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.







Hazardous Substance Liability

The production and delivery of electricity, distribution of gas and, formerly, the manufacture of gas, results in various by-products and substances classified by federal and state regulations as
hazardous. These regulations may impose liability for damages to the environment from hazardous substances, including obligations to conduct environmental remediation of discharged hazardous substances as well as monetary payments, regardless of the
absence of fault and the absence of any prohibitions against the activity when it occurred, as compensation for injuries to natural resources. Our historic operations and the operations of hundreds of other companies along the Passaic and Hackensack
Rivers are alleged by federal and state agencies to have discharged substantial contamination into the Passaic River/Newark Bay Complex. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13.
Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.



•Site Remediation—The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the New
Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act (Spill Act) require the remediation of discharged hazardous substances and authorize the EPA, the NJDEP and private parties to commence lawsuits to compel clean-ups or reimbursement for such remediation. The
clean-ups can be more complicated and costly when the hazardous substances are in a body of water.



•Natural Resource Damages—CERCLA and the Spill Act authorize the assessment of damages against persons who have discharged a
hazardous substance, causing an injury to natural resources. Pursuant to the Spill Act, the NJDEP requires persons conducting remediation to characterize injuries to natural resources and to address those injuries through restoration or damages. The
NJDEP adopted regulations concerning site investigation and remediation that require an ecological evaluation of potential damages to natural resources in connection with an environmental investigation of contaminated sites. The NJDEP also issued
guidance to assist parties in calculating their natural resource damage liability for settlement purposes, but has stated that those calculations are applicable only for those parties that volunteer to settle a claim for natural resource damages
before a claim is asserted by the NJDEP. We are currently unable to assess the magnitude of the potential financial impact of this regulatory change.

Fuel and Waste Disposal



•Nuclear Fuel Disposal—The federal government has entered into contracts with the operators of nuclear power plants for
transportation and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel. To pay for this service, nuclear plant owners are required to contribute to a Nuclear Waste Fund. Under the contracts, the DOE was required to begin taking possession of the spent nuclear
fuel by no later than 1998. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act requires the DOE to perform an annual review of the Nuclear Waste Fee to determine whether that fee is set appropriately to fund the national nuclear waste disposal program. In October
2009 the DOE stated that the current fee of 1/10 cent per kWh was adequate to recover program costs. In April 2010, we joined the Nuclear Energy Institute and fifteen other nuclear plant operators in petitioning the United States Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia District to review the DOE decision to continue to collect the Nuclear Waste Fee at the current rate. On December 13, 2010, the Court dismissed the petition based in part on the fact that DOE had
completed its fee adequacy review. In its decision, the Court still allows for a challenge to the adequacy of the assessment. The petitioners are currently evaluating legal options.

The Nuclear Waste Fee litigation is not expected to have any effect on Power’s September 2009 settlement agreement with DOE
applicable to Salem and Hope Creek under which Power will be reimbursed for past and future reasonable and allowable costs resulting from the DOE delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposition. A similar settlement agreement was
reached related to Peach Bottom in 2004.

Spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor can be stored in reactor facility storage
pools or in Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations located at reactors or away-from reactor sites for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for the reactor. We have on-site storage facilities that are expected to satisfy the storage needs
of Salem 1, Salem 2, Hope Creek, Peach Bottom 2 and Peach Bottom 3 through the end of their operating licenses.







•Low Level Radioactive Waste—As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low level radioactive waste. Such
waste includes paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification materials and other materials. These waste materials are accumulated on site and disposed of at licensed permanent disposal facilities. New Jersey, Connecticut and South
Carolina have formed the Atlantic Compact, which gives New Jersey nuclear generators continued access to the Barnwell waste disposal facility which is owned by South Carolina. We believe that the Atlantic Compact will provide for adequate low level
radioactive waste disposal for Salem and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses including full decommissioning, although no assurances can be given. Low Level Radioactive Waste is periodically being shipped to the Barnwell site from
Salem and Hope Creek. Additionally,there are on-site storage facilities for Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom, which we believe have the capacity for at least five years of temporary storage for each facility.



•Coal Combustion Residuals (CCRs)—In June 2010, the EPA formally published a proposed rule in the
Federal Register offering three main options for the management of CCRs under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. One of these options regulates CCRs as a hazardous waste and the other two options are variations of a non-hazardous
designation. All options communicate the EPA’s intent of ceasing wet ash transfer and instituting engineering controls on ash ponds and landfills to limit impact on human health and the environment. The outcome of the EPA rulemaking cannot be
predicted.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

Financial information with respect to our business segments is set forth in Note 22. Financial Information by Business Segment.

