ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We conduct our business through three
direct wholly owned subsidiaries, Power, PSE&G and Energy Holdings, each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. PSEG Services Corporation (Services), our wholly owned subsidiary, provides us
and these operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost.







We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the
Northeastern and Mid Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries’ operating results. Below
are descriptions of our direct operating subsidiaries.



PowerPSE&GEnergy HoldingsA Delaware limited liability company formed in
1999 that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy sales, fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management functions.Earns revenues from selling under contract or on the spot market a range of diverse products such as electricity, natural gas, capacity, emissions credits
and a series of energy-related products used to optimize the operation of the energy grid.A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a
franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory.Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and gas distribution to residential, commercial
and industrial customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory.Has also implemented several programs to improve efficiencies in customer energy use and increase the level of renewable generation within New
Jersey.A New Jersey limited liabilitycompany (successor to acorporation which was formedin 1989) that
invests andoperates through its two primarysubsidiaries.Earns
revenues from managinglease investments and theoperation of its generationprojects.Also pursuing development ofsolar and other renewablegeneration projects.

The majority of our earnings are derived from the operations of Power, which has contributed at least 70% of our Income
from Continuing Operations over the past three years. While this part of the business has produced significant earnings over that period, its operations are subject to higher risks resulting from volatility in the energy markets. As a regulated
public utility, PSE&G has continued to be a stable earnings contributor for us.



Earnings (Losses) in millions201120102009Power$1,002$1,136$1,191PSE&G521359325Energy Holdings(134)4972Other18136PSEG Income from Continuing Operations$1,407$1,557$1,594

The following is a more detailed description of our business, including a discussion of our:



•Business Operations and Strategy



•Competitive Environment



•Employee Relations



•Regulatory Issues



•Environmental Matters







BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY

Power

Through Power, we seek to produce low-cost energy by efficiently operating our
nuclear, coal, gas and oil-fired generation facilities, while balancing generation production, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. We use commodity contracts and financial instruments, combined with our
owned generation, to cover our commitments for Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contract agreements.

Products and Services

As a merchant generator, our profit is derived from selling a range
of products and services under contract to power marketers and to others, such as investor-owned and municipal utilities, and to aggregators who resell energy to retail consumers, or in the spot market. These products and services include:



•Energy—the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air
conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kWh or dollars per MWh.



•Capacity—a product distinct from energy, is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System
Operator (ISO) for dispatch if it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period.



•Ancillary Services—related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market, required by the ISO to ensure the safe
and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges imposed on
market participants.



•Emissions Allowances and Congestion Credits—Emissions allowances (or credits) represent the right to emit a specific amount of certain
pollutants. Allowance trading is used to control air pollution by providing economic incentives for achieving reductions in the emissions of pollutants. Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the
holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path.

Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full requirements Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract with PSE&G to meet the gas
supply requirements of PSE&G’s customers. The current BGSS contract runs through March 31, 2012 and year to year thereafter.

About 46% of PSE&G’s peak daily gas requirements is provided from Power’s firm transportation capacity, which is available every day of the
year. Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&G’s requirements from storage contracts, liquefied natural gas, seasonal purchases, contract peaking supply, propane and refinery gas. Based upon availability, Power also sells gas to others.

How Power Operates

We own approximately 13,060 MW of generation capacity located in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic regions of the U.S. in some of the country’s largest and most developed electricity markets.







The map below shows the locations of our Northeast and Mid Atlantic generation facilities.



In 2011, we sold 2,000 MW of generation facilities we owned and operated in Texas. See Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1. Organization, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 4. Discontinued Operations and Dispositions, for additional information.

For additional information on each of our generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.



•Generation Capacity

Our installed capacity utilizes a diverse mix of fuels: 44% gas, 28% nuclear, 18% coal, 9% oil and 1% pumped storage. This fuel diversity helps to mitigate risks associated with fuel price volatility and
market demand cycles. Our total generating output in 2011 was approximately 54,000 GWh. The following table indicates the proportionate share of generating output by fuel type.



Generation by Fuel TypeActual 2011Nuclear:New Jersey facilities38%Pennsylvania facilities18%Fossil:Coal:New Jersey facilities5%Pennsylvania facilities9%Connecticut facilities1%Oil and Natural Gas:New Jersey facilities22%New York facilities7%Total100%







While overall generation has increased over the past several years, the mix by fuel type has changed
slightly in recent years due to the relatively favorable price of natural gas as compared to coal, making it more economical to run certain of our gas units than our coal units.



•Generation Dispatch

Our generation units are typically characterized as serving one or more of three general energy market segments: base load; load following; and peaking, based on their operating capability and
performance. On a capacity basis, our portfolio of generation assets consists of 34% base load, 43% load following and 23% peaking. This diversity helps to reduce the risk associated with market demand cycles and allows us to participate in the
market at each segment of the dispatch curve.



•Base Load Unitsoperate whenever they are available. These units generally derive revenues from energy and capacity sales. Variable operating
costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower-cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit’s “capacity factor,” or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical
maximum output. In 2011, our base load capacity factors were as follows:



Unit2011CapacityFactorNuclearSalem Unit 185.4%Salem Unit 288.0%Hope Creek98.7%Peach Bottom Unit 299.2%Peach Bottom Unit 388.0%CoalKeystone75.1%Conemaugh72.7%

No assurances can be given that these capacity factors will be achieved in the future.



•Load Following Unitstypically operate between 20% and 80% of the time. The operating costs are higher per unit of output due to lower
efficiency and/or the use of higher-cost fuels such as oil, natural gas and, in some cases, coal. They operate less frequently than base load units and derive revenues from energy, capacity and ancillary services.



•Peaking Unitsrun the least amount of time and utilize higher-priced fuels. These units typically operate less than 20% of the time. Costs per
unit of output tend to be much higher than for base load units. The majority of revenues are from capacity and ancillary service sales. The characteristics of these units enable them to capture energy revenues during periods of high energy prices.

In the energy markets in which we operate, owners of power plants specify to the ISO prices at which they are prepared to
generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. The ISOs will dispatch in merit order, calling on the lowest variable cost units first and dispatching progressively higher-cost units until the
point that the entire system demand for power (known as the system “load”) is satisfied. Base load units are dispatched first, with load following units next, followed by peaking units.

During periods when one or more parts of the transmission grid are operating at full capability, thereby resulting in a constraint on the transmission
system, it may not be possible to dispatch units in merit order without violating transmission reliability standards. Under such circumstances, the ISO will dispatch higher-cost generation out of merit order within the congested area and power
suppliers will be paid an increased Locational Marginal Price (LMP) in congested areas, reflecting the bid prices of those higher-cost generation units.







The following chart depicts the merit order of dispatch in PJM Interconnection L.L.C. (PJM), where most of
our generation units are located, based on illustrative historical dispatch cost. It should be noted that market price fluctuations have resulted in changes from historical norms, with lower gas prices allowing some gas generation to displace some
coal generation.





The bid price of the last unit dispatched by an ISO establishes the energy market-clearing price. After considering the
market-clearing price and the effect of transmission congestion and other factors, the ISO calculates the LMP for every location in the system. The ISO pays all units that are dispatched their respective LMP for each MWh of energy produced,
regardless of their specific bid prices. Since bids generally approximate the marginal cost of production, units with lower marginal costs typically generate higher operating profits than units with comparatively higher marginal costs.







This method of determining supply and pricing creates an environment in the markets such that natural gas
prices often have a major impact on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong demand. Therefore, significant changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into significant changes
in the wholesale price of electricity. This can be seen in the graphs below which present historical annual spot prices and forward calendar prices as averaged over each year.









Historical data and forward prices would imply that the price of natural gas will continue to have a strong influence
on the price of electricity in the primary markets in which we operate.







The prices reflected in the tables above do not necessarily illustrate our contract prices, but they are
representative of market prices at relatively liquid hubs, with nearer-term forward pricing generally resulting from more liquid markets than pricing for later years. In addition, the prices do not reflect locational differences resulting from
congestion or other factors, which can be considerable. While these prices provide some perspective on past and future prices, the forward prices are highly volatile and there can be no assurance that such prices will remain in effect or that we
will be able to contract output at these forward prices.

Fuel Supply



•Nuclear Fuel Supply—To run our nuclear units we have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for:



•purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride);



•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;



•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; and



•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies.



•Coal Supply—Coal is the primary fuel for our Hudson, Mercer, Keystone, Conemaugh and Bridgeport stations. We have contracts with
numerous suppliers. Coal is delivered to our units through a combination of rail, truck, barge or ocean shipments.

In order to minimize emissions levels, our Bridgeport 3 unit uses a specific type of coal obtained from Indonesia. If the supply from Indonesia or equivalent coal from other sources was not available for
this facility, our long-term operations would be adversely impacted since additional material capital expenditures would be required to modify our Bridgeport 3 station to enable it to operate using a broader mix of coal sources.



•Gas Supply—Natural gas is the primary fuel for the bulk of our load following and peaking fleet. We purchase gas directly from
natural gas producers and marketers. These supplies are transported to New Jersey by four interstate pipelines with whom we have contracted. In addition, we have firm gas transportation contracts to serve our Bethlehem Energy Center (BEC) in New
York.

We have 1.3 billion cubic feet-per-day of firm transportation capacity under contract to meet our
obligations under the BGSS contract. On an as available basis, this firm transportation capacity may also be used to serve the gas supply needs of our generation fleet. We supplement that supply with a total storage capacity of 76 billion cubic
feet.



•Oil—Oil is used as the primary fuel for one load following steam unit and nine combustion turbine peaking units and can be used as
an alternate fuel by several load following and peaking units that have dual-fuel capability. Oil for operations is drawn from on-site storage and is generally purchased on the spot market and delivered by truck, barge or pipeline.

We expect to be able to meet the fuel supply demands of our customers and our own operations. However, the ability to
maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand, curtailments by suppliers, severe weather and other factors. For additional information, see Item 7.
MD&A—Overview of 2011 and Future Outlook and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Markets and Market Pricing

Power’s assets are located in three centralized,
competitive electricity markets operated by ISO organizations all of which are subject to the regulatory oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC):



•PJM Regional Transmission Organization—PJM conducts the largest centrally dispatched energy market in North America. It serves over
60 million people, nearly 19% of the total U.S. population and







a peak demand of over 163,800 MW. The PJM Interconnection coordinates the movement of electricity through all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey,
North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. The majority of our generating stations operate in PJM.



•New York—The NYISO is the market coordinator for New York State and is responsible for managing the New York Power Pool and for
administering its energy marketplace. This service area has a population of about 19 million and a peak demand of over 33,900 MW. Our BEC station operates in New York.



•New England—ISO NE coordinates the movement of electricity in a region covering Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut
and Rhode Island. This service area has a population of about 14 million and a peak demand of over 28,130 MW. Our Bridgeport and New Haven stations operate in Connecticut.

The price of electricity varies by location in each of these markets. Depending upon our production and our obligations, these price differentials can
serve to increase or decrease our profitability.

Commodity prices, such as electricity, gas, coal, oil and emissions, as well as the
availability of our diverse fleet of generation units to produce these products, also have a considerable effect on our profitability. These commodity prices have been, and continue to be, subject to significant market volatility. Over the
long-term, the higher the forward prices are, the more attractive an environment exists for us to contract for the sale of our anticipated output. However, higher prices also increase the cost of replacement power; thereby placing us at risk should
our generating units fail to function effectively or otherwise become unavailable.

Over the past few years, a decline in wholesale natural gas
prices has resulted in lower electricity prices. One of the reasons for the decline in natural gas prices is greater supply from shale production. This trend has reduced margin on forward sales as we recontract our expected generation output.

In addition to energy sales, we also earn revenue from capacity payments for our generating assets. These payments are compensation for
committing a portion of our capacity to the ISO for dispatch at its discretion. Capacity payments reflect the value to the ISO of assurance that there is sufficient generating capacity available at all times to meet system reliability and energy
requirements. Currently, there is sufficient capacity in the markets in which we operate. However, in certain areas of these markets there are transmission system constraints, raising concerns about reliability and creating a more acute need for
capacity.

In PJM and ISO-NE, where we operate most of our generation, the market design for capacity payments provides for a structured,
forward-looking, transparent capacity pricing mechanism. This is through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) in PJM and the Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in ISO-NE. These mechanisms provide greater clarity regarding the value of capacity, resulting
in an improved pricing signal to prospective investors in new generating facilities so as to encourage expansion of capacity to meet future market demands.

The prices to be received by generating units in PJM for capacity have been set through RPM base residual auctions and depend upon the zone in which the generating unit is located. The majority of our PJM
generating units are located in zones where the following prices have been set.



Delivery YearMW-daykW-yrJune 2011 to May 2012$110.00$40.16June 2012 to May 2013$139.73$51.70June 2013 to May 2014$245.00$89.43June 2014 to May 2015$136.50$49.82

Identical prices were set for all zones for the periods from June 2010 to May 2012 under these auctions. For all other
periods the prices differ in the various areas of PJM, depending on the constraints in each area of the transmission system, with Keystone and Conemaugh receiving lower prices than the majority of our PJM generating units since there are fewer
constraints in that region and our generating units in northern New Jersey usually receiving higher pricing.







The price that must be paid by an entity serving load in the various zones is also set through these
auctions. These prices can be higher or lower than the prices noted in the table above due to import and export capability to and from lower-priced areas.

Like PJM and ISO-NE, the NYISO provides capacity payments to its generating units, but unlike the other two markets, the New York market does not provide a forward price signal beyond a six month auction
period.

On a prospective basis, many factors may affect the capacity pricing, including but not limited to:



•changes in load and demand;



•changes in the available amounts of demand response resources;



•changes in available generating capacity (including retirements, additions, derates, forced outages, etc.);



•increases in transmission capability between zones;



•changes to the pricing mechanism, including potentially increasing the number of zones to create more pricing sensitivity to changes in supply and
demand, as well as other potential changes that PJM and the other ISOs may propose over time; and



•changes driven by legislative and/or regulatory action, that permit states to subsidize local electric power generation through the consummation of
standard offer capacity agreements.

For additional information on the RPM and FCM markets, see Regulatory
Issues—Federal Regulation.

Hedging Strategy

In an attempt to mitigate volatility in our results, we seek to contract in advance for a significant portion of our anticipated electric output, capacity and fuel needs. We seek to sell a portion of our
anticipated lower-cost generation over a multi-year forward horizon, normally over a period of two to three years. We believe this hedging strategy increases stability of earnings.

Among the ways in which we hedge our output are: (1) sales at PJM West and (2) BGS contracts. Sales at PJM West reflect block energy sales at the liquid PJM Western Hub and other transactions
that seek to secure price certainty for our generation related products. In addition, the BGS-Fixed Price contract, a full requirements contract that includes energy and capacity, ancillary and other services, is awarded for three-year periods
through an auction process managed by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The volume of BGS contracts and the electric utilities that our generation operations serve will vary from year to year. Pricing for the BGS contracts, including a
capacity component, for recent and future periods by purchasing utility is as follows:



Load Zone ($/MWh)2008-20112009-20122010-20132011-20142012-2015PSE&G$111.50$103.72$95.77$94.30$83.88Jersey Central Power & Light$114.09$103.51$95.17$92.56$81.76Atlantic City Electric$116.50$105.36$98.56$100.95$85.10Rockland Electric Company$120.49$112.70$103.32$106.84$92.51

A portion of our total capacity is hedged through the BGS auctions. On average, tranches won in the BGS auctions require
110 to 120 of capacity on a daily basis.

We have obtained price certainty for all of our PJM and New England capacity through May 2015 through
the RPM and FCM pricing mechanisms.

We enter into these hedges in an effort to provide price certainty for a large portion of our anticipated
generation. There is, however, variability in both our actual output as well as in our hedges. Our actual output will vary based upon total market demand, the relative cost position of our units compared to all units in the market and the
operational flexibility of our units. Our hedge volume can also vary, depending on the type of hedge into which we have entered. The BGS auction, for example, results in a contract that provides for the







supplier to serve a percentage of the default load of a New Jersey electric delivery company, that is, the load that remains after some customers have chosen to be served directly by third party
suppliers. The amount of power supplied varies based on the level of the delivery company’s default load, which is affected by the number of customers who choose a third party supplier, as well as by other factors such as weather and the
economy. Historically, the number of customers that have switched to third party suppliers was relatively constant, but in 2010, as market prices declined from past years’ historic highs, there was additional incentive for more of the smaller
commercial and industrial electric customers to switch. In a falling price environment, this has a negative impact on our margins, as the anticipated BGS pricing is replaced by lower spot market pricing. While this impact has been reduced as average
BGS rates have declined to a level more closely resembling current market prices, customers may still see an incentive to switch to third party suppliers. We are unable to determine the degree to which this switching, or “migration,”
will continue, but the impact on our results could be material.

As of February 9, 2012, we had contracted for the following percentages
of our anticipated base load generation output for the next three years with modest amounts beyond 2014.



Base Load Generation201220132014Generation Sales100%85%-90%30%-35%

Power’s strategy is to maintain certain levels of uranium in inventory and to make periodic purchases to support such
levels. Power’s nuclear fuel commitments cover approximately 100% of its estimated uranium, enrichment and fabrication requirements for the three years. Power also has various long-term fuel purchase commitments for coal to support its fossil
generation stations. These purchase obligations are consistent with Power’s strategy to enter into contracts for its fuel supply in comparable volumes to its sales contracts.

We take a more opportunistic approach in hedging our anticipated natural gas-fired generation. The generation from these units is less predictable, as a significant portion of these units will only
dispatch when aggregate market demand has exceeded the supply provided by lower-cost units. The natural gas-fired units have historically provided a lower contribution to our margin than either the nuclear or coal units, although market price
dynamics of coal and gas over the past few years have moderated this historical relationship.

In a changing market environment, this hedging
strategy may cause our realized prices to differ materially from current market prices. In a rising price environment, this strategy normally results in lower margins than would have been the case if little or no hedging activity had been conducted.
Alternatively, in a falling price environment, this hedging strategy will tend to create margins higher than those implied by the then current market.







PSE&G

Our public utility, PSE&G, distributes electric energy and gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 6.2 million people, or
about 70% of the State’s population, reside.





Products and Services

Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the transmission and distribution of electricity and the distribution of gas.



•Transmission—is the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then
reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the FERC.



•Distribution—is the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer’s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for
these services are based upon tariffs approved by the BPU.

We also earn margins through competitive services, such as
appliance repair. The commodity supply portion of our utility business’ electric and gas sales are managed by BGS and BGSS suppliers. Pricing for those services are set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility
operations.

In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to improve efficiencies in customer
energy use and increase the level of renewable generation including:



•a program to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area,



•a program to develop, own and operate solar power systems, and



•a set of energy efficiency programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and money saving measures directly to
businesses and families.

For additional information concerning these programs and the components of our tariffs, see
Regulatory Issues.







How PSE&G Operates

We provide network transmission and point-to-point transmission services, which are coordinated with PJM, and provide distribution service to 2.2 million electric customers and 1.8 million gas
customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most heavily populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and
approximately 300 suburban and rural communities.

Transmission

We use formula rates for our existing and future transmission investments. Formula-type rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission
owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula which considers Operations and Maintenance expenditures, Rate Base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average
cost of capital. Currently, our approved rates provide for a base ROE of 11.68% on existing and new transmission investment, while certain investments are entitled to earn an additional incentive rate. For more information on current transmission
construction activities, see Regulatory Issues, Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation.



Transmission StatisticsDecember 31, 2011Historical Annual 
LoadGrowth 2007-2011Network Circuit MilesBilling Peak (MW)1,35710,933-0.3%

Distribution

Our primary business is the distribution of gas and electricity to end users in our service territory. Our load requirements were split among residential, commercial and industrial customers, as described
below for 2011. We believe that we have all the non-exclusive franchise rights (including consents) necessary for our electric and gas distribution operations in the territory we serve.



% of 2011 SalesCustomer TypeElectricGasCommercial57%36%Residential33%60%Industrial10%4%Total100%100%

While our customer base has remained steady and gas load has increased, electric load has declined as illustrated:



Electric and Gas Distribution StatisticsDecember 31, 2011Historical AnnualNumber ofCustomersElectric Sales and GasSold and
TransportedLoad Growth2007-2011Electric2.2 Million42,506 GWh-0.5%Gas1.8 Million3,527 Million Therms2.2%







Supply

Although commodity revenues make up almost 54% of our revenues, we make no profit on the supply of energy since the actual costs are passed through to our customers.

All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their own electric energy and/or gas supplier. However, pursuant to BPU
requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for electric and gas customers within our service territory who are not served by another supplier. As a practical matter, this means we are obligated to provide supply to a vast majority of
residential customers and a smaller portion of commercial and industrial customers.

We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through
two concurrent auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey’s
electric distribution companies (EDCs). Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set.

PSE&G procures the supply
requirements of our default service BGSS gas customers through a full requirements contract with Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made
annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in
future rates. Commercial and industrial customers that do not have third party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts.

Markets and Market Pricing

Historically, there has been significant volatility in commodity prices. Such volatility can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered
electric and gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs may be deferred under our
regulated rate structure. A declining commodity price on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. For additional information, including the impact of natural gas commodity prices on electricity prices such as BGS, see
Item 7. MD&A.







Energy Holdings

Our focus at Energy Holdings is on managing our portfolio of lease investments and generation projects. Energy Holdings is also continuing to explore opportunities for additional investments in renewable
generation.

Over the past several years, we have terminated all of our international leveraged leases with lessees willing to meet certain
economic thresholds in order to reduce the cash tax exposure related to these leases. We have also reduced our risk by opportunistically monetizing the majority of our previous international investments. We are continuing to explore options for our
remaining international investment in Venezuela as well as our projects in Hawaii and New Hampshire. In February, 2012, the California Public Utilities Commission approved the shut down of GWF Power and we anticipate recovering the remaining book
value of our investment. For additional information on these generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Products
and Services

The majority of our remaining $881 million of domestic lease investments are energy-related leveraged leases. As of
December 31, 2011, the single largest lease investment represented 38% of total lease investments.

Our leveraged leasing portfolio is
designed to provide a fixed rate of return. Leveraged lease investments involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is
typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long-term financing to the transaction secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long-term
financing is non-recourse to the lessor and, with respect to our lease investments, is not presented on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The
lessor acquires economic and tax ownership of the asset and then leases it to the lessee for a period of time no greater than 80% of its remaining useful life. As the owner, the lessor is entitled to depreciate the asset under applicable federal and
state tax guidelines. The lessor receives income from lease payments made by the lessee during the term of the lease and from tax benefits associated with interest and depreciation deductions with respect to the leased property. Our ability to
realize these tax benefits is dependent on operating gains generated by our other operating subsidiaries and allocated pursuant to the consolidated tax sharing agreement between us and our operating subsidiaries.

Lease rental payments are unconditional obligations of the lessee and are set at levels at least sufficient to service the non-recourse lease debt. The
lessor is also entitled to any residual value associated with the leased asset at the end of the lease term. An evaluation of the after-tax cash flows to the lessor determines the return on the investment. Under accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States (GAAP), the leveraged lease investment is recorded net of non-recourse debt and income is recognized as a constant return on the net unrecovered investment.

For additional information on leases, including the credit, tax and accounting risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit
Risk—Energy Holdings, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Financing Receivables and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Through Energy Holdings, we own and operate solar projects in New Jersey, Florida and Ohio totaling 29 MW. See Item 2. Properties for additional information. In January 2012, Energy Holdings also
acquired an additional 25 MW solar project currently under construction in Arizona. Completion of this project is expected by the third quarter of 2012. All of the energy, capacity and environmental attributes generated by the project in the
first 20 years are expected to be sold under a long-term power purchase agreement. Energy Holdings has issued guarantees of up to $71.5 million for payment of obligations related to the construction of the project. These guarantees will terminate
upon successful completion of the project. The total investment for the project will be approximately $75 million.

Also, in December 2011, the
Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) selected PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Holdings, to manage its electric transmission and distribution system in Long Island, New York.







LIPA issued a press release that it had selected us for a variety of reasons, including our proven track
record of first quartile customer service and reliability, commitment to cost control, corporate culture of transparency and local decision making, technical expertise and proven environmental track record. The ten year contract will commence on
January 1, 2014. As part of the management contract, PSEG LI will be expected to develop and implement a number of operational improvements to provide safe and reliable service for LIPA’s customers, increase customer satisfaction and
manage the operational and maintenance costs of LIPA.

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

Power

Various market participants compete with us and one another in buying and selling in
the wholesale energy markets, entering into bilateral contracts and selling to aggregated retail customers. Our competitors include:



•merchant generators,



•domestic and multi-national utility generators,



•energy marketers,



•banks, funds and other financial entities,



•fuel supply companies, and



•affiliates of other industrial companies.

New additions of lower-cost or more efficient generation capacity could make our plants less economical in the future. Although it is not clear if this capacity will be built or, if so, what the economic
impact will be, such additions could impact market prices and our competitiveness.

Our business is also under competitive pressure due to
demand side management (DSM) and other efficiency efforts aimed at changing the quantity and patterns of usage by consumers which could result in a reduction in load requirements. A reduction in load requirements can also be caused by economic
cycles, customer migration and other factors. It is also possible that advances in technology, such as distributed generation, will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most
central station electric production. To the extent that additions to the transmission system relieve or reduce congestion in eastern PJM where most of our plants are located, our revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules governing
transmission planning, cost allocation and who is permitted to build transmission could also impact our revenues.

We are also at risk if one
or more states in which we operate should decide to turn away from competition. This is now occurring in New Jersey where a new law was enacted on January 28, 2011 establishing a long-term capacity agreement pilot program (LCAPP) which provides
for up to 2,000 MW of subsidized base load or mid-merit electric power generation. This bill may have the effect of artificially depressing prices in the competitive wholesale market and thus has the potential to harm competitive markets, on both a
short-term and a long-term basis. Other states, such as Maryland, are also examining similar programs. The lack of consistent rules in energy markets can negatively impact the competitiveness of our plants.

Environmental issues, such as restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide
(CO2) and other pollutants, may also have a competitive
impact on us to the extent that it becomes more expensive for some of our plants to remain compliant, thus affecting our ability to be a lower-cost provider compared to competitors without such restrictions. In addition, most of our plants, which
are located in the Northeast where rules are more stringent, can be at an economic disadvantage compared to our competitors in certain Midwest states. While our generation fleet is relatively low-emitting, additional restrictions could have a
negative impact on certain of our units, including our coal units.







In addition, pressures from renewable resources could increase over time. For example, many parts of the
country, including the mid-western region within the footprint of the Midwest Independent System Operator, the California ISO and the PJM region, have either implemented or are considering implementing changes to their respective regional
transmission planning processes that will enable the construction of large amounts of transmission to move renewable generation to load centers. FERC has also ordered all FERC-jurisdictional regions to consider public policy requirements, such as
State Renewable Portfolio Standards, in their planning processes, which could facilitate the integration of renewable resources. For additional information, see the discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation below.

PSE&G

The transmission and
distribution business has minimal risks from competitors. Our transmission and distribution business is minimally impacted when customers choose alternate electric or gas suppliers since we earn our return by providing transmission and distribution
service, not by supplying the commodity. The demand for electric energy and gas by customers is affected by customer conservation, economic conditions, weather and other factors not within our control.

Changes in the current policies for building new transmission lines, such as the proposal by FERC to eliminate contractual provisions that provide us a
“right of first refusal” to construct projects in our service territory, could result in additional competition to build transmission lines in our area in the future and would allow us to seek opportunities to build in other service
territories. Moreover, as discussed in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation below, the court’s elimination of national electric transmission corridors may impact upon future transmission build.

Construction of new subsidized local generation also has the potential to reduce the need for the construction of new transmission to transport remote
generation and alleviate system constraints.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,784 employees within our subsidiaries, including 6,346 covered under collective bargaining agreements. All of our collective bargaining agreements will
expire on April 30, 2013 or later. We believe we maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees.



Employees as of December 31, 2011PowerPSE&GEnergyHoldingsServicesNon-Union1,2071,25016965Union1,4924,84509Total Employees2,6996,09516974Number of Union Groups35N/A1

REGULATORY ISSUES

Federal Regulation

FERC

FERC is an independent federal agency that regulates the transmission of electric energy and gas in interstate commerce and the sale of electric energy
and gas at wholesale pursuant to the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the Natural Gas Act. PSE&G and the generation and energy trading subsidiaries of Power are public utilities as defined by the FPA. FERC has extensive oversight over “public
utilities” as defined by the FPA. FERC approval is usually required when a public utility seeks to: sell or acquire an asset that is regulated by FERC (such as a transmission line or a generating station); collect costs from customers
associated with a new transmission facility; charge a rate for wholesale sales under a contract or tariff; or engage in certain mergers and internal corporate reorganizations.







FERC also regulates generating facilities known as qualifying facilities (QFs). QFs are cogeneration
facilities that produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy, or small power production facilities where the primary energy source is renewable, biomass, waste or geothermal resources. QFs must meet certain criteria established by
FERC. We own various QFs through Energy Holdings. QFs are subject to some, but not all, of the same FERC requirements as public utilities.

FERC also regulates Regional Transmission Operators/ISOs, such as PJM, and their energy and capacity markets.

For us, the major effects of FERC regulation fall into five general categories:



•Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Energy Clearing Prices



•Capacity Market Issues



•Transmission Regulation



•Compliance

Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues



•Market Power—Under FERC regulations, public utilities must receive FERC authorization to sell power in interstate commerce. They can
sell power at cost-based rates or apply to FERC for authority to make market based rate (MBR) sales. For a requesting company to receive MBR authority, FERC must first make a determination that the requesting company lacks market power in the
relevant markets. FERC requires that holders of MBR tariffs file an update every three years demonstrating that they continue to lack market power.

PSE&G, PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC, PSEG Power Connecticut, PSEG Fossil LLC and PSEG Nuclear LLC were each granted continued MBR authority from FERC in June 2011. Retention of MBR
authority is important to the maintenance of our current generation business’ revenues.



•Cost-Based Reliability Must Run (RMR) Agreements—FERC has permitted public utility generation owners to enter into RMR agreements
that provide cost-based compensation to a generation owner when a unit proposed for retirement is asked to continue operating for reliability purposes. In June 2011, we asked PJM to re-evaluate whether a previously approved extension of the RMR
contract for Hudson 1 was necessary. In August 2011, PJM determined that such an extension was not needed and stated that it would be releasing the RMR contract. Accordingly, we filed with FERC to notify FERC that PJM had terminated RMR
services from Hudson Unit 1 as of December 7, 2011. Also in September, we informed PJM that we were retiring the gas-fired load following Hudson Unit 1 as of December 8, 2011.

Energy Clearing Prices

Energy clearing prices in the markets in which we operate are generally based on bids submitted by generating units. Under FERC-approved rules, bids are subject to price caps and mitigation rules
applicable to certain generation units. FERC rules also govern the overall design of these markets. At present, all units receive a single clearing price based on the bid of the marginal unit (i.e. the last unit that must be dispatched to serve the
needs of load). These FERC rules have a direct impact on the energy prices received by our units.

Capacity Market
Issues

PJM, NYISO, and ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have been approved by FERC.







PJM—RPM is a locational installed capacity market design for the PJM region, including a
forward auction for installed capacity. Under RPM, generators located in constrained areas within PJM are paid more for their capacity as an incentive to ensure adequate supply where generation capacity is most needed. PJM’s RPM and related
FERC orders establishing prices paid to us and other generators as a result of RPM’s transitional auctions were challenged in court by various state public utility commissions, including the BPU. On February 8, 2011, the D.C. Circuit Court
of Appeals issued a decision upholding the FERC orders denying this challenge to the transitional auction results. Moreover, the mechanics of RPM in PJM continue to evolve and be refined in stakeholder proceedings in which we are active, and there
is currently significant discussion about the future role of demand response in the RPM market.

ISO-NE—ISO-NE’s market
for installed capacity with all generators in New England provides fixed capacity payments. The market design consists of a forward-looking auction for installed capacity that is intended to recognize the locational value of generators on the system
and contains incentive mechanisms to encourage generator availability during generation shortages. As in PJM, capacity market rules in ISO-NE continue to develop. We challenged in court the results of ISO-NE’s first forward capacity auction,
arguing that our units received inadequate compensation notwithstanding the location of our resources in a constrained area. The D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals recently ruled in our favor and remanded the proceeding to FERC. We and other generators
have also filed a complaint at FERC regarding ISO-NE’s capacity market design, alleging that it insufficiently reflects locational capacity values. FERC acted on the complaint, largely accepting the ISO-NE’s capacity market design;
however, this ruling is being appealed.

NYISO—NYISO operates a short-term capacity market that provides a forward price
signal only for six months into the future. The NYISO capacity model recognizes only two separate zones that potentially may separate in price: New York City and Long Island. Discussions concerning potential changes to NYISO capacity markets are
also ongoing.

LCAPP—In 2011, the State of New Jersey concluded that new natural-gas fired generation was needed and enacted
the Long-Term Capacity Agreement Pilot Program Act (LCAPP Act) to subsidize 2,000 MW of new generation. The LCAPP Act provided that subsidies would be offered through long-term standard offer capacity agreements (SOCAs) between selected generators
and the New Jersey Electric Distribution Companies (EDCs). The SOCA requires that the generator bid in and clear in the PJM RPM base residual auction in each year of the SOCA term in order to receive the subsidized payment. The SOCA requires each
New Jersey EDC to provide the generators with guaranteed capacity payments funded by ratepayers, calculated as the difference between the RPM clearing price for each year of the term and the guaranteed price for each generator as set forth in its
respective SOCA. The EDCs, including PSE&G, were directed to enter into fifteen-year SOCAs with three generators selected by the BPU: CPV Shore, LLC (CPV), a subsidiary of Competitive Power Ventures, Inc., Hess Newark, LLC (Hess), a subsidiary
of Hess Corporation, and New Jersey Power Development LLC, a subsidiary of NRG Energy, Inc. Each of the New Jersey EDCs entered into the SOCAs as directed by the State, but did so under protest reserving their rights.

The NRG subsidiary filed a petition at the BPU claiming that there has been a material modification in PJM’s RPM that will adversely affect its
performance under the SOCA and asked the BPU for relief through modifications to its SOCA. In January 2012, PSE&G received a similar notice of dispute from another of the three selected generators. In February 2012, the BPU announced that it
would consider the NRG dispute in a proceeding, which will be presided over by the BPU’s president. The BPU indicated that it would encourage the CPV and Hess subsidiaries to also participate in the proceeding.

In 2011, the BPU also initiated a second proceeding, not authorized by the LCAPP Act, to consider whether there is a need for additional generation
capacity in the state and whether there are rules or practices that inhibit the development of that generation in the competitive market. The BPU Staff issued written recommendations on these issues in December 2011 and recommended several options
for the BPU to consider in the event that sufficient levels of new generation do not clear in the 2012 and 2013 RPM auctions. At this time, the BPU has not acted on the staff recommendations.







Legal challenges to the BPU’s implementation of the LCAPP Act, as well as to the constitutionality of
the LCAPP Act were filed and are pending.

Maryland is also considering similar subsidies to above-market new generation. In September 2011,
the Maryland Public Utility Commission (PUC) issued an order requiring its EDCs to issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) to procure up to 1,500 MW of new natural gas-fired generation located in the Southwest MAAC electrical region. The RFP would
require up to a 20-year contract, with ratepayers paying the generator a fixed capacity amount and would require the generator to bid into and clear the RPM auctions (similar to the LCAPP SOCA). Developments in Maryland may influence developments in
New Jersey regarding the construction of subsidized generation and impact energy and capacity prices in PJM.

The impacts of the subsidized
above-market contracts on RPM auction prices were mitigated, but not eliminated, when FERC ordered certain changes to the PJM Tariff, including a Minimum Offer Price Ruling (MOPR) that would restrict new generation from bidding in RPM at less than
an established minimum level established by Tariff, or a cost-based bid to the extent that the generator can demonstrate that its costs are lower than the MOPR. The BPU, the Maryland PUC and other parties have challenged the FERC’s MOPR order,
and those challenges are pending.

Transmission Regulation

FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to establish the rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate transmission. We currently have FERC-approved
formula rates in effect to recover the costs of our transmission facilities. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are then trued up
the following year to reflect actual annual expenses/capital expenditures. Our allowed ROE is 11.68% for both existing and new transmission investments and we have received incentive rates, affording a higher ROE, for certain large scale
transmission investments. For additional information on our transmission rates and the annual true-ups, see Item 7. MD&A – Overview of 2011 and Future Outlook.



•



Transmission Policy Developments

We
are a party to a proceeding that is pending in US District Court in New Jersey challenging the constitutionality of LCAPP and a proceeding pending in the Appellate Division in New Jersey challenging the BPU’s implementation of LCAPP.







•



Transmission Expansion

On February 3, 2011, certain environmental
groups that were parties to the BPU proceeding approving the Susquehanna-Roseland line and that appealed the BPU’s approval order filed a motion to reopen the agency record on the grounds of “changed circumstances,” including the
delay in construction of the project and PJM’s issuance of a new load forecast report. On January 12, 2012, the Appellate Division denied the motion. The underlying substantive appeal of the BPU approval order remains pending.

In October 2010, PJM approved the North East Grid project, a 230 kV project running from Roseland to Hudson. This project
has an expected in-service date of June 2015 with an estimated cost of construction of $895 million. The North East Grid project was approved in place of a previously approved 500 kV Branchburg-Roseland-Hudson (B-R-H) project. On October 31,
2011, we filed a petition with FERC seeking Construction Work in Progress (CWIP) in rate base, 100% abandonment cost recovery and a 100 basis point ROE adder with respect to the project. Notwithstanding protests filed by the BPU and a group of state
ratepayer advocates, including the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel (Rate Counsel), FERC granted our request for CWIP in rate base and 100% abandonment cost recovery, along with a 25 basis point ROE adder, on December 31, 2011, effective
January 1, 2012.

In its Regional Transmission Expansion Plan, PJM has approved our construction of several other 230 kV
transmission projects. In April 2011, we filed a petition with FERC seeking incentive rates for five of these projects (Burlington-Camden project, North Central Reliability project, the Mickleton-Gloucester-Camden project, Middlesex Switch Rack
project and Bayonne-Marion project). For each of these projects, we requested inclusion of 100% of CWIP in rate base and recovery of 100% of prudently incurred abandonment costs with an effective date of June 14, 2011. In June 2011, FERC
granted the requested incentives for three of the projects (Burlington-Camden, North Central Reliability and Mickleton-Gloucester-Camden) with a total estimated capital investment of $1.0 billion, representing approximately 80% of our request.

In May 2011, we filed a petition with the BPU to site the North Central Reliability project. This project, which will involve
upgrading certain circuits and switching stations from 138 kV to 230 kV, is currently estimated to cost $390 million and has an in-service date of June 2014. We expect the BPU to issue a decision in the first quarter of 2012.







In February 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit issued a decision
vacating the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) 2006 Congestion Study and the two national transmission corridor designations resulting from the study, including the Mid-Atlantic Corridor which encompasses all of the State of New
Jersey. FERC back-stop siting authority permits an entity building transmission to site the project at FERC under certain circumstances, including a State’s failure to act within one year. However, since this authority only attaches to
transmission located within a DOE-designated corridor, FERC back-stop siting authority may not be available to companies building transmission in New Jersey, including us. The DOE is expected to issue a new Congestion Study in 2012.



•PJM Transmission Rate Design—In 2007, FERC addressed the issue of how transmission rates, paid by PJM transmission customers and
ultimately paid by retail customers, should be designed in PJM. FERC ruled that the cost of new high voltage (500 kV and above) transmission facilities in PJM would be regionalized and paid for by all transmission customers on a pro-rata basis. Each
share is calculated annually based upon a zone’s load ratio share within PJM. For all existing facilities, costs would be allocated using the pre-existing zonal rate design. For new lower voltage transmission facilities, costs would be
allocated using a “beneficiary pays” approach. This FERC decision was subsequently upheld on rehearing but was then appealed by other parties to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit.

In August 2009, the Court ruled that, with respect to new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned facilities, FERC had not adequately
justified its decision to regionalize these costs. Certain parties sought rehearing of the Court’s decision, which requests were denied. The case was then remanded to FERC for further proceedings. FERC has not yet issued a decision. The current
allocation for new 500 kV and higher centrally-planned projects may remain in place or could be modified by FERC. PJM’s Order 1000 stakeholder proceedings may also establish cost allocation rules regarding costs for transmission facilities in
PJM.

Compliance



•Reliability Standards—Congress has required FERC to put in place, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC),
national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. Many reliability standards have been developed and approved. These standards apply
both to reliability of physical assets interconnected to the bulk power system and to the protection of critical cyber assets. Our generation assets were audited in 2011 and our utility assets will be audited in 2012. In addition, many of our
operating companies have been subject to spot audits. NERC compliance represents a significant and challenging area of compliance responsibility for us. As new standards are developed and approved, existing standards are revised and registration
requirements are modified which could increase our compliance responsibilities.

Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC)

In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was passed in an
attempt to reduce systemic risk in the financial markets thereby preventing future financial crises and market issues such as those experienced in 2008. As part of this new legislation, the SEC and the CFTC will be implementing new rules to
effectuate stricter regulation over swaps and derivatives since many of the issues experienced were caused by derivative trading in connection with mortgage loans. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act will require many swaps and other derivative
transactions to be standardized and traded on exchanges or other Derivative Clearing Organizations (DCOs).

CFTC has issued
NOPRs on many of the key issues, including:



•defining swaps;



•defining swap dealers and major swap participants;



•the end-user exception from clearing requirements;







•position limits;



•margin requirements;



•capital requirements; and



•reporting requirements.

Exchanges and DCOs typically require full collateralization of all transactions taking place on the exchange or DCO. Although the Dodd-Frank Act
specifically recognizes a commercial end user exemption from posting additional collateral in the bilateral Over the Counter swap and derivative markets, we cannot assess the exact scope of the new rules until the SEC and CFTC issue them. A
broad or less than clear definition of swap dealer could result in Power being classified as a dealer, which would impose significant reporting and record-keeping requirements as well as clearing/collateral requirements on Power unless we fall under
the commercial end-user exemption recognized in the Dodd-Frank Act. We believe that any regulatory change that deviates from the original intent would need to be addressed by additional legislation.

The CFTC may issue a Final Rule on the definition of a swap dealer in the next month, which is expected to include a de minimis exemption. The CFTC is
scheduled to issue a Final Rule on the definition of a swap in mid-2012.

We will carefully monitor these new rules as they are developed to
analyze the potential impact on our swap and derivatives transactions, including any potential increase in our collateral requirements.

Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

Our operation of nuclear generating facilities is
subject to comprehensive regulation by the NRC, a federal agency established to regulate nuclear activities to ensure protection of public health and safety, as well as the security and protection of the environment. Such regulation involves
testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements. Continuous demonstration to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements is also necessary. The NRC has the ultimate
authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. We received 20-year license extensions from the NRC for our Salem and Hope Creek facilities in June and July 2011, respectively. The current operating licenses of our nuclear
facilities expire in the years shown below:



UnitYearSalem Unit 12036Salem Unit 22040Hope Creek2046Peach Bottom Unit 22033Peach Bottom Unit 32034

In 2010, we also filed an application for an Early Site Permit for a new nuclear generating station to be located at the
current site of the Salem and Hope Creek generating stations. The NRC acceptance review is complete and agency evaluation is underway. There were no petitions filed for permission to intervene. The current NRC schedule would likely result
in issuance of the Early Site Permit in 2014. The Early Site Permit qualifies the site as an approved location for a new reactor for a period of 20 years but we are under no obligation to build.

As a result of events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear facility in Japan following the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, the NRC will be performing
additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the United States. These reviews and the lessons learned from the events in Japan will result in additional regulation for the nuclear industry and could impact future operations and
capital requirements for our facilities. We believe that our nuclear plants meet the stringent applicable design and safety specifications of the NRC.







Separately, a petition was filed with the NRC in April 2011 seeking suspension of the operating licenses of all General
Electric BWRs utilizing the Mark I containment design in the United States, including our Hope Creek and Peach Bottom units, pending completion of the NRC review. Fukushima Daiichi Units 1-4 are BWRs equipped with Mark I containments. The petition
names 23 of the total 104 active commercial nuclear reactors in the United States. While we do not believe the petition will be successful, we are unable to predict the outcome of any action that the NRC may take in connection with its
operational and safety reviews or any other regulatory or industry responses to the events in Japan.

State Regulation

Since our operations are primarily located within New Jersey, our principal state regulator is the BPU, which oversees electric and natural gas
distribution companies in New Jersey. Our utility operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of retail electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance and sale of certain
types of securities and compliance matters. BPU regulation can also have a direct or indirect impact on our power generation business as it relates to energy supply agreements and energy policy in New Jersey.

We are also subject to various other states’ regulations due to our operations in those states.

Rates

Retail Gas Transportation Rates—In July 2010, as part of our gas base rate proceeding, the BPU ordered a supplemental
and expedited review of certain issues related to the gas transportation rate that PSE&G charges to Power. Also in July, a complaint was filed by an independent power generator against Power at FERC related to the gas transportation rate.

On December 16, 2010, the BPU approved a settlement that resolved all remaining issues in our base rate case.

The BPU also commenced a generic proceeding to evaluate the process and standards for all utilities to provide discounts to their gas
delivery customers, culminating in the issuance of an order in 2011. We, along with the other New Jersey gas utilities, filed to implement tariffs with the BPU setting forth their individual processes by which customers can obtain discounts. Our
tariff remains pending at the BPU although we expect the BPU to issue an order in the first quarter of 2012.







Rate Adjustment Clauses—In addition to base rates, we recover certain
costs from customers pursuant to mechanisms, known as adjustment clauses. These clauses permit, at set intervals, the flow-through of costs to customers related to specific programs, outside the context of base rate case proceedings. Recovery of
these costs is subject to BPU approval. Costs associated with these clauses are deferred when incurred and amortized to expense when recovered in revenues. Delays in the pass-through of costs under these clauses can result in significant changes in
cash flow. Our Societal Benefits Charge (SBC) and Non-utility Generation Charges (NGC) clauses are detailed in the following table:



Rate Clause2011 Revenue(Over) Under RecoveredBalanceas of December 31, 2011MillionsEnergy Efficiency and Renewable Energy$200$8Universal Service Fund (USF)16421Social Programs7058Remediation Adjustment Clause (RAC)5092Total SBC484179NGC256(5)Gas Weather Normalization02RGGI Recovery Charge (RRC)37144Total$777$320



•SBC—The SBC is a mechanism designed to ensure recovery of costs associated with activities required to be accomplished to achieve
specific government-mandated public policy determinations. The programs that are covered by the SBC (gas and electric) are energy efficiency and renewable energy programs, the RAC, which covers the costs to clean up manufactured gas plants and the
USF. In addition, the electric SBC includes a Social Programs component. All components include interest on both over and under recoveries.



•NGC—The NGC recovers the above market costs associated with the long-term power purchase contracts with non-utility generators
approved by the BPU.



•Gas Weather Normalization Clause—The purpose of this clause is to remove the gas earnings volatility caused by variations in the
weather over the winter period. To the extent that the cumulative winter period is colder than normal, we refund to customers the excess margin collected as a result of the weather. To the extent that the cumulative winter period is warmer than
normal, we have the opportunity to collect from customers the resulting margin shortfall.



•RRC—On October 1, 2010, we filed a petition for an increase in the RRC, seeking a revenue increase of approximately $18.7
million in electric revenue and $1.4 million in gas revenue on an annual basis. The filing sought to reset the RRC rate components for five programs including: Carbon Abatement, the Energy Efficiency Economic Stimulus Program, the Demand Response
Program, Solar 4 All, and the Solar Loan II Program. These initiatives are intended to help New Jersey meet its New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP) goal of reducing energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and to help improve New Jersey’s economy
through the creation of new jobs through the promotion of energy efficiency. In implementing these initiatives, we are allowed to recover the costs of these programs on an annual basis through a true-up mechanism.

A Decision and Order was issued by the BPU in December 2011 finalizing the 2009 Carbon Abatement Stipulated provisional rates of
approximately $3.9 million on an annual basis. This Order also approved a stipulation regarding the October 2010 RRC filing which resulted in a net annual revenue increase of $18.7 million in the electric RRC rates while maintaining the gas RRC
rates at the current level.







Recent Rate Adjustments

USF/Lifeline—The USF is an energy assistance program mandated by the BPU to provide payment assistance to low income
customers. The Lifeline program is a separately mandated energy assistance program to provide payment assistance to elderly and disabled customers. On June 30, 2011, the State’s electric and gas utilities filed to reset the statewide rates
for the USF and Lifeline programs. The filed rates were subsequently updated and approved in a written order effective November 1, 2011. The approved USF rates are set to recover $242 million on a statewide basis. Of this amount, the electric
rates are set to recover $185 million and the gas rates $57 million. The rates for the Lifeline program are set to recover $49 million and $22 million for electric and gas, respectively. We earn no margin on collection of the USF and Lifeline
programs, resulting in no impact on Net Income.

SBC/NGC—In August 2010, we made our 2010 annual SBC/NGC
filing requesting an $85.4 million electric increase and a $17.2 million gas decrease. On February 11, 2011, we filed a stipulation of settlement with the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). The stipulation was executed by all parties and allows us
to increase electric SBC/NGC rates by $85.4 million and decrease gas SBC rates by $17.2 million, both on an annual basis. The stipulation was approved by the ALJ and adopted by the BPU by written order dated March 9, 2011, with rates effective
April 1, 2011.

RAC—In November 2010, we filed a RAC 18 petition with the BPU requesting an increase in
electric and gas RAC rates of approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively. In May 2011, a settlement was signed by the parties and filed with the ALJ for the requested amounts. Also in May 2011, the ALJ issued an Initial Decision
adopting the executed stipulation of the parties to the proceeding. The ALJ’s Initial Decision was approved by the BPU in June 2011. New rates were effective July 1, 2011.

In November 2011, we filed a RAC 19 petition with the BPU requesting a decrease in electric and gas RAC revenues on an annual basis of
$8.9 million and $10.1 million, respectively. We are seeking an Order by April 2012 and are currently in the discovery phase of the proceeding.

Connecticut Contract for Differences—On December 1, 2011, PSEG New Haven LLC filed its first annual retail generation rate contested case seeking establishment of its first year
(2012) revenue requirements of $16.7 million. As part of this process, an audit was performed by the Connecticut Public Utilities Regulatory Authority and the Office of Consumer Counsel in January 2012. Evidentiary hearings are scheduled
for March 2012 with an expected Final Decision in May 2012.

Energy Supply

BGS—New Jersey’s EDCs provide two types of BGS, the default electric supply service for customers who do not have
a third party supplier. The first type, which represents about 82% of PSE&G’s load requirements, provides default supply service for smaller industrial and commercial customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices
for a three-year term (BGS-Fixed Price). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with
energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-CIEP).

All of New Jersey’s EDCs
jointly procure the supply to meet their BGS obligations through two concurrent auctions authorized each year by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine
which energy suppliers provide BGS to New Jersey’s EDCs.







PSE&G’s total BGS-Fixed Price eligible load is expected to be approximately 8,500
MW. Approximately one-third of this load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. Current pricing is as follows:



200920102011201236 Month Terms EndingMay 2012May 2013May 2014May 2015(A)Eligible Load (MW)2,9002,8002,8002,900$ per kWh0.103720.095770.094300.08388



(A)Prices set in the February 2012 BGS Auction will be effective on June 1, 2012 when the 2009 BGS agreements expire.

The BPU once again approved the auction process for 2012 with no significant changes to the process. However, as part of the BPU Order,
the BPU Staff was directed to initiate a proceeding to review aspects of the BGS procurement process at the conclusion of the 2012 procurement, with an expected resolution by the end of May 2012.

For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
and Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

BGSS—BGSS is the mechanism approved by the BPU
designed to recover all gas costs related to the supply for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE&G’s revenues are matched with its costs using
deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and
also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time.

PSE&G has a full requirements contract through March 2012 with Power to meet
the supply requirements of default service gas customers. Power charges PSE&G for gas commodity costs which PSE&G recovers from customers. Any difference between rates charged by Power under the BGSS contract and rates charged to
PSE&G’s residential customers are deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. PSE&G earns no margin on the provision of BGSS.

On June 1, 2011, PSE&G made its annual BGSS filing with the BPU. The filing requested a decrease in annual BGSS revenue of $16.1 million, excluding sales and use tax, to be effective
October 1, 2011. This represented a reduction of approximately 1.1% for a typical residential gas heating customer. On September 22, 2011, the BPU approved the Stipulation of the parties, which implemented the filed BGSS rate, on a
provisional basis, effective October 1, 2011.

On November 21, 2011, PSE&G provided notice to the BPU of a
decrease in its BGSS-Residential Gas (RSG) Commodity Charge to be effective December 1, 2011. The self-implementing rate decrease was designed to bring a projected over collected balance of $56 million to zero by the end of September 2012. The
annual impact of the decrease for the average residential heating customer is approximately 4.6%. On January 18, 2012, PSE&G provided notice to the BPU of another self-implementing one-month bill credit of 15 cents per therm (including
sales and use tax) for its BGSS-Residential Gas customers to be effective February 1 through February 29, 2012.

PSE&G had executed a Stipulation between the parties which would make the current provisional BGSS rate final and resolve all issues
of the proceeding. The Stipulation was sent to the Office of Administrative Law and upon being signed, will be sent to the BPU.

Energy Policy

New Jersey EMP—New Jersey law requires that an EMP be developed every three years, the purpose of which is to ensure safe, secure and reasonably-priced energy supply, foster economic
growth and development and protect the environment. The most recent EMP was finalized in December 2011.







The 2011 EMP places an emphasis on expanding in-state electricity resources and reducing
energy costs. The plan also recognizes the impact of climate change and accepts the previously set goal of a 22.5% target for the renewable portfolio standard (RPS) in 2021. It also references a goal that 70% of New Jersey’s energy supplies
should be from clean energy sources by 2050. To meet this goal, the plan redefines clean energy to include nuclear, natural gas and hydro power along with defined renewable sources and proposes a number of changes aimed at reducing the cost of
achieving the 22.5% goal.

Specific program initiatives in the EMP include:



•construction of new combined cycle natural gas plants through the implementation of LCAPP, with the continued State challenge to FERC and PJM policies
on market pricing rules in the capacity market;



•support for construction of new nuclear generation;



•changes to the solar program to reduce cost, expand opportunities, expand transparency and ensure economic and environmental benefits;



•expanded natural gas use to meet energy needs;



•development of decentralized combined heat and power;



•redesign of the delivery of state energy efficiency programs, and



•continued support for implementation of off-shore wind, without setting a specific capacity goal.

Solar Initiatives—In order to spur investment in solar power in New Jersey and meet renewable energy goals, we have
undertaken two major initiatives at PSE&G.



•Solar Loans:The first program helps finance the installation of 81 MW of solar systems throughout our electric service area by providing loans
to customers. The borrowers can repay the loans over a period of either 10 years (for residential customer loans) or 15 years (for non-residential customers), by providing us with solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs) or cash. The value of the
SRECs towards the repayment of the loan is guaranteed to be not less than a floor price. SRECs received by us in repayment of the loan are sold through a periodic auction. Proceeds will be used to offset program costs.

The total investment of both phases of the Solar Loan Program is expected to be between $200 million and $250 million once the
program is fully subscribed, projects are built and loans are closed. As of December 31, 2011, we have provided a total of $127 million in loans for 518 projects representing 38 MW.



•Solar 4 All:The second solar initiative is the Solar 4 All Program under which we are investing approximately $451 million to develop 80 MW of
utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) systems over four years. The program consists of centralized solar systems 500kW or greater installed on PSE&G-owned property and third-party sites in our electric service territory (40 MW) and solar panels
installed on distribution system poles (40 MW). We sell the energy and capacity from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition we sell any SRECs received from the projects through the same auction used in the loan program.
Proceeds from these sales are used to offset program costs.

As of December 31, 2011, 26 MW of solar
panels had been installed on approximately 120,000 distribution poles with an investment of approximately $185 million. In addition during 2011, 33 MW of centralized solar systems representing 19 projects were placed in service with an investment of
approximately $160 million. An additional 6 MW is expected to be placed into service in the first quarter of 2012 and additional projects are in various stages of negotiation and development.







On January 18, 2012, the BPU issued an order indicating that it will conduct a
proceeding to address the proposed placement of solar panels on the poles. A negative determination by the BPU could impact our ability to complete the Solar 4 All pole mounted installations.

Solar Generic Proceeding—The BPU is conducting a generic proceeding to examine whether existing utility rate-based
solar programs, including ours, should be expanded, modified or discontinued once the current programs expire or the authorized level of solar installations has been achieved. Although the current programs are not expected to be affected, the
proceeding will examine the costs and benefits of all of these programs. The proceeding is expected to conclude in the first quarter of 2012 with BPU Staff recommendations to the BPU, which may then be reflected in an order. We have advocated for
expansion of our solar investment programs as part of this proceeding.

Capital Infrastructure Programs (CIP I and CIP
II)—We have received approval from the BPU for programs that provide for accelerated investment in utility infrastructure. The goal of these accelerated capital investments is to improve the State’s economy through the creation of
new jobs. The original CIP I program, approved in 2009, included 38 qualifying projects totaling $694 million of investment. In July 2011, the BPU approved CIP II which included an additional 30 qualifying projects totaling approximately $78 million
and $195 million in expenditures for gas and electric, respectively. The CIP II program investments are to be completed and placed in service by December 2012.

In conjunction with the approval of CIP II, we agreed to additional base spending of approximately $96 million, excluding new business for the period 2011 through 2013.

The CIP programs require periodic filings to implement the rates to recover investment costs at which times the BPU reviews the prudency
of the implementation of the programs. CIP I was completed in June 2011 and in September 2011, we filed a final CIP I petition for $60 million in revenue requirements to roll the remaining projects into base rates. An Order is expected in 2012. In
November 2011, we filed our first annual recovery petition for CIP II for the period ending December 31, 2011.

LCAPP—See Federal Regulation—Capacity Market Issues above.

Storm Damage Recovery—On August 26, 2011, we filed a petition with the BPU requesting permission to defer
incremental storm related costs and the opportunity to seek recovery in our next base rate proceeding. This proceeding remains pending. We have deferred approximately $29 million in incremental Operation and Maintenance (O&M) storm costs
associated with Hurricane Irene. In addition, we deferred approximately $31 million in incremental O&M related to a severe October 2011 snow storm.

BPU Audits

Management/Affiliate Audit—The BPU engaged a
contractor to perform a comprehensive audit with respect to the effectiveness of management and transactions among affiliates, which began in October 2009. In 2011, we received a full draft audit report, which included recommendations for changes in
practices at PSE&G and its affiliates. We have provided comments back to the auditors on all chapters of the report. The BPU may enforce the recommendations in whole or in part by Order.

BPU Investigations

RRC/CIP—In January 2012, the Rate Counsel filed a letter with the BPU requesting the BPU to take prompt action to investigate certain allegations of wrong doing in PSE&G’s
Solar 4 All, Energy Efficiency Economic Stimulus, and CIP I programs that were raised by three ex-employees in a lawsuit filed on December 20, 2011. At a public meeting on January 18, 2012, the BPU indicated that it would seek to obtain
certain pertinent information from PSE&G prior to determining whether an investigation was warranted.







ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Changing environmental laws and regulations significantly impact the manner in which our operations are currently conducted and impose costs on us to
reduce the health and environmental impacts of our operations. To the extent that environmental requirements are more stringent and compliance more costly in certain states where we operate compared to other states that are part of the same market,
such rules may impact our ability to compete within that market. Due to evolving environmental regulations, it is difficult to project future costs of compliance and their impact on competition. Capital costs of complying with known pollution
control requirements are included in our estimate of construction expenditures in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed by future regulations are not known,
but may be material.

Areas of environmental regulation may include, but are not limited to:



•air pollution control,



•climate change,



•water pollution control,



•hazardous substance liability, and



•fuel and waste disposal.

For additional information related to environmental matters, including anticipated expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment,
hazardous substance liabilities and fuel and waste disposal costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Air Pollution Control

Our
facilities are subject to federal regulation under the Clean Air Act (CAA) which requires controls of emissions from sources of air pollution and imposes record keeping, reporting and permit requirements. Our facilities are also subject to
requirements established under state and local air pollution laws.

Title V of the CAA requires all major sources, such as our generation
facilities, to obtain and keep current an operating permit. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed and included in these permits in the future could be material and are not included in our estimates of
capital expenditures.



•New Jersey Nitrogen Oxide
(NOx)Regulation: High Electric Demand Day—In April 2009, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) finalized revisions to NOxemission control regulations that impose new NOxemission reduction requirements and limits for New Jersey fossil fuel
fired electric generation units. The rule will have an impact on our generation fleet, as it imposes NOxemissions limits that require capital investment for controls or the retirement of up to 102 combustion turbines (approximately 2,000 MW) and four older New Jersey steam electric generation units
(approximately 400 MW) by May 2015. We are currently evaluating our compliance options.



•ConnecticutNOxRegulation—Under
current Connecticut regulations, Power’s Bridgeport and New Haven facilities have been utilizing Discrete Emission Reduction Credits (DERCs) to comply with certain NOx emission limitations that were incorporated into the facilities’
operating permits. In 2010, Power negotiated new agreements with the State of Connecticut extending the continued use of DERCs for certain emission units and equipment until May 31, 2014.



•Hazardous Air Pollutants Regulation—In accordance with a court ruling, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
proposed a Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) regulation in March 2011 which was finalized on December 21, 2011. This regulation includes requirements related to the reduction of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from
emissions pursuant to the CAA. The impact to our fossil generation fleet is currently being determined but we believe the back-end technology environmental controls recently installed at our Hudson and Mercer coal facilities should meet the
rule’s requirements. Some additional controls could be necessary at our Connecticut facility, pending engineering evaluation. The impact to our jointly-owned coal fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania is under evaluation. In December
2011, a decision was reached to upgrade the previously planned two flue gas desulfurization scrubbers and install Selective Catalytic







Reduction (SCR) systems at our jointly-owned coal fired generating facility at Conemaugh in Pennsylvania. This installation is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2014. PSEG’s
share of this investment is approximately $147 million.



•Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR)—On July 6, 2011, the EPA issued the final CSAPR. CSAPR limits power plant emissions of
Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) and annual and ozone season NOxin 28 states that contribute to the ability of downwind states to attain
and/or maintain current particulate matter and ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Technical revisions to the CSAPR were finalized on February 7, 2012. The EPA increased New Jersey’s allocation of annual NOx and ozone
season NOx allowances beyond what was proposed. The EPA also finalized the increase in New Jersey’s allocation of
SO2allowances from the October proposal. The additional
increases in NOx allocations are favorable to PSEG, since both PSEG and New Jersey as a whole are projected to be very tight on NOx allowances (both ozone season and annual).

On December 30, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. circuit issued a ruling to stay CSAPR pending judicial review.
Until a final decision is reached, the court has ordered that the existing Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) requirements continue temporarily. We have intervened in the CSAPR litigation along with other generating companies in support of the rule.

The continuation of CAIR affects our generating stations in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. The purpose of CAIR is to
improve Ozone and Fine Particulate (PM2.5) air quality within states that have not demonstrated achievement of the NAAQS. CAIR was implemented through a cap-and-trade program and, to date, the impact has not been material to us as the allowances
allocated to our stations were sufficient. If 2012 operations are similar to those in the past three years, it is expected that the impact to operations from the temporary implementation of CAIR in 2012 will not be significant.

We continue to evaluate the impact of CSAPR on us due to many of the uncertainties that still exist regarding
implementation. As we have made major capital investments over the past several years to lower the SO2and NOxemissions of our fossil plants in the states affected by CSAPR (New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania), we do not currently foresee the need to make significant additional expenditures to our generation fleet to comply with CSAPR. As such, we
currently anticipate that this rule will not have a material adverse impact to our capital investment program or units’ operations.

Climate Change



•Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI)—In response to concerns over global climate change, some states have developed initiatives
to stimulate national climate legislation through CO2emission reductions in the electric power industry. Ten northeastern states, including New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, originally established RGGI to cap and reduce CO2emissions in the region. In general, these states adopted state-specific rules to enable the RGGI regulatory mandate in
each state.

Applicable rules make allowances available through a regional auction
whereby generators may acquire allowances that are each equal to one ton of CO2emissions. Generators are required to submit an allowance for each ton emitted over a three year period (e.g. 2009, 2010, and 2011). Allowances are available through the auction or through secondary
markets and are required to be submitted to states by March 2012 for the first compliance period.

Pricing
for the allowances vary based on future allowance market conditions and electric generation market conditions. For the first three-year compliance period, we have acquired sufficient allowances to compensate for CO2emissions from affected sources.

In May 2011, the Governor of New Jersey announced his intent to withdraw New Jersey from RGGI beginning in 2012.
Therefore, our New Jersey facilities are no longer obligated to acquire CO2emission allowances, but our generation facilities in New York and Connecticut remain subject to RGGI.







New Jersey also adopted the Global Warming Response Act in 2007, which calls for stabilizing
its greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, followed by a further reduction of greenhouse emissions to 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. To reach this goal, the NJDEP, the BPU, other state agencies and stakeholders are required to evaluate
methods to meet and exceed the emission reduction targets, taking into account their economic benefits and costs.



•CO2Regulation Under theCAA—In April 2010, the EPA and the National Highway Transportation Safety Board (NHTSB) jointly issued a
final rule to regulate GHG emissions from certain motor vehicles (Motor Vehicle Rule). Under the CAA, the adoption of the Motor Vehicle Rule would have automatically subjected many emission sources, including ours, to CAA permitting for new
facilities and major facility modifications that increase the emission of GHGs, including CO2. However, guidance issued by the EPA in March 2010 interpreted the CAA to require permitting for GHGs at other facilities, such as ours, only when the Motor Vehicle Rule was scheduled to take effect in
January 2011. In May 2010, the EPA finalized a “Tailoring Rule” that would phase in, beginning in 2011, the application of this permitting requirement to facilities such as ours. The significance of the permitting requirement is that,
in cases where a new source is constructed or an existing source undergoes a major modification, the owner of the facility would need to evaluate and perhaps install best available control technology (BACT) for GHG emissions.

In November 2010, the EPA published guidance to state and local permitting
authorities to undertake BACT determinations for new and modified emission sources. The guidance does not define the specific technology or technologies that should be considered BACT. The guidance does emphasize the use of energy efficiency, and
specifically states that the technology of storing CO2under
the earth, also known as carbon capture and storage, is not yet mature enough to be considered a viable alternative at this stage. The practical effect of this guidance document is unclear in the context of applying the Tailoring Rule to specific
facilities. In December 2010, the EPA also announced a schedule for proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for GHGs from new and existing power plants and refineries. The EPA has missed the date for release of a draft rule. We expect the
EPA to put forth draft rules for new sources early in 2012. Since a proposed rule has not been published, the outcome of the rulemaking and its significance to us cannot be predicted.



•Climate Related Legislation—The federal government may consider legislative proposals to define a national energy policy and address
climate change. Proposals under consideration include, but are not limited to, provisions to establish a national clean energy portfolio standard and to establish an energy efficiency resource standard. Provisions of any new proposal may
present material risks and opportunities to our businesses. The final design of any legislation will determine the impact on us, which we are not now able to reasonably estimate.



•CO2Litigation—In addition to legislative and regulatory initiatives, the outcome of certain legal proceedings regarding alleged impacts
of global climate change not involving us could be material to the future liability of energy companies. Litigation has been commenced by individuals, local governments and interest groups alleging that various industries, including various energy
companies, emitted greenhouse gases causing global climate change that resulted in a variety of damages. If relevant federal or state common law were to develop that imposed liability upon those that emit greenhouse gases for alleged impacts of
greenhouse gas emissions, such potential liability to us could be material.







Water Pollution Control

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) prohibits the discharge of pollutants to U.S. waters from point sources, except pursuant to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued by the EPA or by a state under a federally authorized state program. The FWPCA authorizes the imposition of technology-based and water quality-based effluent limits to regulate the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and ground
waters. The EPA has delegated authority to a number of state agencies, including those in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, to administer the NPDES program through state acts. We also have ownership interests in facilities in other jurisdictions
that have their own laws and implement regulations to control discharges to their surface waters and ground waters that directly govern our facilities in those jurisdictions.

In addition to regulating the discharge of pollutants, the FWPCA regulates the intake of surface waters for cooling. The use of cooling water is a significant part of the generation of electricity at
steam-electric generating stations. Section 316(b) of the FWPCA requires that cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available (BTA) for minimizing adverse environmental impact. The impact of regulations under
Section 316(b) can be significant, particularly at steam-electric generating stations which do not have closed cycle cooling through the use of cooling towers to recycle water for cooling purposes. The installation of cooling towers at an
existing generating station can impose significant engineering challenges and significant costs, which can affect the economic viability of a particular plant. In late 2010, the EPA entered into a settlement agreement with environmental groups that
established a schedule to develop a new 316(b) rule.

In April 2011, the EPA published a new proposed rule which did not establish any
particular technology as the BTA (e.g. closed-cycle cooling). Instead, the proposed rule established marine life mortality standards for existing cooling water intake structures with a design flow of more than 2 million gallons per day. We
reviewed the proposed rule, assessed the potential impact on our generating facilities and used this information to develop our comments to the EPA which were filed in August 2011. Although the EPA has recently stated that a revision of the proposed
rule to include an alternative framework for compliance is currently being considered, if the rule were to be adopted as proposed, the impact on us would be material since the majority of our electric generating stations would be affected. We are
unable to predict the outcome of this proposed rulemaking, the final form that the proposed regulations may take and the effect, if any, that they may have on our future capital requirements, financial condition or results of operations, although
such impacts could be material. See Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional information.

Hazardous Substance
Liability

The production and delivery of electricity, the distribution of gas and, formerly, the manufacture of gas, results in various
by-products and substances classified by federal and state regulations as hazardous. These regulations may impose liability for damages to the environment from hazardous substances, including obligations to conduct environmental remediation of
discharged hazardous substances as well as monetary payments, regardless of the absence of fault and the absence of any prohibitions against the activity when it occurred, as compensation for injuries to natural resources. Our historic operations
and the operations of hundreds of other companies along the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers are alleged by federal and state agencies to have discharged substantial contamination into the Passaic River/Newark Bay Complex. For additional information,
see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.



•Site Remediation—The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the New
Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act (Spill Act) require the remediation of discharged hazardous substances and authorize the EPA, the NJDEP and private parties to commence lawsuits to compel clean-ups or reimbursement for such remediation. The
clean-ups can be more complicated and costly when the hazardous substances are in a body of water.



•Natural Resource Damages—CERCLA and the Spill Act authorize the assessment of damages against persons who have discharged a
hazardous substance, causing an injury to natural resources. Pursuant to







the Spill Act, the NJDEP requires persons conducting remediation to characterize injuries to natural resources and to address those injuries through restoration or damages. The NJDEP adopted
regulations concerning site investigation and remediation that require an ecological evaluation of potential damages to natural resources in connection with an environmental investigation of contaminated sites. The NJDEP also issued guidance to
assist parties in calculating their natural resource damage liability for settlement purposes, but has stated that those calculations are applicable only for those parties that volunteer to settle a claim for natural resource damages before a claim
is asserted by the NJDEP. We are currently unable to assess the magnitude of the potential financial impact of this regulatory change, although such impacts could be material.

Fuel and Waste Disposal



•Nuclear Fuel Disposal—The federal government has entered into contracts with the operators of nuclear power plants for
transportation and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel. To pay for this service, nuclear plant owners are required to contribute to a Nuclear Waste Fund. Under the contracts, the DOE was required to begin taking possession of the spent nuclear
fuel by no later than 1998. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 requires the DOE to perform an annual review of the Nuclear Waste Fee to determine whether that fee is set appropriately to fund the national nuclear waste disposal program. In
October 2009, the DOE stated that the current fee of 1/10 cent per kWh was adequate to recover program costs. In March 2011, we joined the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and fifteen other nuclear plant operators in a lawsuit seeking suspension
of the Nuclear Waste Fee. The suit was filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C Circuit.

The Nuclear
Waste Fee litigation is not expected to have any effect on our September 2009 settlement agreement with DOE applicable to Salem and Hope Creek under which we will be reimbursed for past and future reasonable and allowable costs resulting from the
DOE delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel for permanent disposition. A similar settlement agreement was reached related to Peach Bottom in 2004.

Spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor can be stored in reactor facility storage pools or in Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations located at reactors or away from reactor sites. We have
on-site storage facilities that are expected to satisfy the storage needs of Salem 1, Salem 2, Hope Creek, Peach Bottom 2 and Peach Bottom 3 through the end of their operating licenses.



•Low Level Radioactive Waste—As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low level radioactive waste. Such
waste includes paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification materials and other materials. These waste materials are accumulated on site and disposed of at licensed permanent disposal facilities. New Jersey, Connecticut and South
Carolina have formed the Atlantic Compact, which gives New Jersey nuclear generators continued access to the Barnwell waste disposal facility which is owned by South Carolina. We believe that the Atlantic Compact will provide for adequate low level
radioactive waste disposal for Salem and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses including full decommissioning, although no assurances can be given. Low Level Radioactive Waste is periodically being shipped to the Barnwell site from
Salem and Hope Creek. Additionally,there are on-site storage facilities for Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom, which we believe have the capacity for at least five years of temporary storage for each facility.



•Coal Combustion Residuals (CCRs)—In June 2010, the EPA formally published a proposed rule offering three main options for the
management of CCRs under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. One of these options regulates CCRs as a hazardous waste and the other two options are variations of a non-hazardous designation. All options communicate the EPA’s intent of
ceasing wet ash transfer and instituting engineering controls on ash ponds and landfills to limit impact on human health and the environment. The outcome of the EPA rulemaking cannot be predicted. The EPA has not established a date for release of a
final rule.







SEGMENT INFORMATION

Financial information with respect to our business segments is set forth in Note 22. Financial Information by Business Segment.

