ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We conduct our business through two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, Power and PSE&G, each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102.

We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the Northeastern and Mid- Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries’ operating results. Below are descriptions of our two principal direct operating subsidiaries.

PowerPSE&GA Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 that integrates its nuclear, fossil and renewable generating asset operations with its wholesale energy sales, fuel supply and energy trading functions.Earns revenues from selling under contract or on the spot market a range of diverse products such as electricity, natural gas, capacity, emissions credits and a series of energy-related products used to optimize the operation of the energy grid.A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory.Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory.Has also implemented demand response and energy efficiency programs and invested in solar generation within New Jersey.

Our other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which earns its revenues primarily from its portfolio of lease investments; PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority's transmission and distribution system under a contractual agreement; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides us and our operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost.









The following is a more detailed description of our business, including a discussion of our:

•Business Operations and Strategy

•Competitive Environment

•Employee Relations

•Regulatory Issues

•Environmental Matters



BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY

Power

Through Power, we seek to produce low-cost energy by efficiently operating our nuclear, coal, gas, oil-fired and renewable generation assets, while balancing generation output, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. We use our owned generation combined with commodity contracts and financial instruments to cover our commitments for Basic Generation Service (BGS) in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contract agreements.

Products and Services

As a merchant generator, our profit is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to power marketers and to others, such as investor-owned and municipal utilities, and to aggregators who resell energy to retail consumers, or in the open market. These products and services include:

•Energy—the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kilowatt hour (kWh) or dollars per megawatt hour (MWh).

•Capacity—a product distinct from energy, is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System Operator (ISO) for dispatch when it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per megawatt (MW) for a given sale period.

•Ancillary Services—related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market that are required by the ISO to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges imposed on market participants.

•Emissions Allowances and Congestion Credits—Emissions allowances (or credits) represent the right to emit a specific amount of certain pollutants. Allowance trading is used to control air pollution by providing economic incentives for achieving reductions in the emissions of pollutants. Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path.

Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full requirements Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract with PSE&G to meet the gas supply requirements of PSE&G's customers. This long-term arrangement was for an initial period which extended through March 31,2012and continues on a year-to-year basis unless terminated by either party with a one year notice.

Approximately46%of PSE&G’s peak daily gas requirements is provided from Power’s firm gas transportation capacity, which is available every day of the year. Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&G’s requirements from storage contracts, liquefied natural gas, seasonal purchases, contract peaking supply, propane and refinery gas. Based upon the availability of natural gas beyond PSE&G's daily needs, Power also sells gas to others.

In addition to its nuclear and fossil generation fleet, Power owns and operates88MW of photovoltaic (PV) solar generation facilities and has a 50% ownership interest in an oil-fired generation facility in Hawaii.

The remainder of this section about Power covers our nuclear and fossil fleet in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions which comprise the vast majority of Power’s operations and financial performance.











How Power Operates

We own approximately 13,466 MW of generation capacity, of which13,274MW of nuclear and fossil generation capacity is located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States in some of the country’s largest and most developed electricity markets.

The map below shows the locations of our Northeast and Mid-Atlantic nuclear and fossil generation facilities:



•Generation Capacity

Power has approved the expenditure of$419 millionfor an extended power uprate of the Peach Bottom nuclear units. The uprate is expected to result in an increase in Power’s share of nominal capacity of approximately130MW. The uprate is expected to be in service in 2015 for Unit 2 and 2016 for Unit 3. Total expenditures throughDecember 31, 2013were$154 million.

Power has also approved the expenditure of$191 millionfor the upgrading of its natural gas-fired combined cycle units located at Bergen and Linden in New Jersey and at the Bethlehem Energy Center (BEC) unit located in New York. When completed in 2018, these upgrades will add approximately152MW of capacity and improve the heat rates of these units. Total expenditures throughDecember 31, 2013were$13 million.

For additional information on each of our generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

Our nuclear and fossil installed capacity utilizes a diverse mix of fuels:44%gas,28%nuclear,18%coal,9%oil and1%pumped storage. This fuel diversity helps to mitigate risks associated with fuel price volatility and market demand cycles. Our total generating output in2013was approximately53,000gigawatt hours (GWh). The generation mix by fuel type has changed slightly in recent years due to the relatively favorable price of natural gas as compared to coal, making it more economical to run certain of our gas units than our coal units. The following table indicates the proportionate share of generating output by fuel type in 2013.









Generation by Fuel Type (A)Actual 2013Nuclear:New Jersey facilities38%Pennsylvania facilities17%Fossil:Coal:Pennsylvania facilities11%Connecticut facilities1%Coal and Natural Gas:New Jersey facilities2%Oil and Natural Gas:New Jersey facilities24%New York facilities7%Connecticut facilities—%(B)Total100%

(A)    Excludes pumped storage, solar facilities and fossil generation in Hawaii

(B)     Less than one percent



•Generation Dispatch

Our generation units are typically characterized as serving one or more of three general energy market segments: base load; load following; and peaking, based on their operating capability and performance. On a capacity basis, our portfolio of generation assets consists of33%base load,43%load following and24%peaking. This diversity helps to reduce the risk associated with market demand cycles and allows us to participate in the market at each segment of the dispatch curve.

•Base Load Unitsrun the most and typically operate whenever they are available. These units generally derive revenues from energy and capacity sales. Variable operating costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower-cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit’s “capacity factor,” or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical maximum output. In2013, our base load capacity factors were as follows:

Unit2013CapacityFactorNuclearSalem Unit 187.0%Salem Unit 299.5%Hope Creek85.6%Peach Bottom Unit 298.4%Peach Bottom Unit 385.3%CoalKeystone83.7%Conemaugh79.1%

No assurances can be given that these capacity factors will be achieved in the future.

•Load Following Unitstypically operate between20%and80%of the time. The operating costs are higher per unit of output due to the use of higher-cost fuels such as oil, natural gas and, in some cases, coal or lower overall unit efficiency. They operate less frequently than base load units and derive revenues from energy, capacity and ancillary services.









•Peaking Unitsrun the least amount of time and utilize higher-priced fuels. These units typically operate less than20%of the time. Costs per unit of output tend to be much higher than for base load units given the combination of higher heat rates and fuel costs. The majority of revenues are from capacity and ancillary service sales. The characteristics of these units enable them to capture energy revenues during periods of high energy prices.

In the energy markets in which we operate, owners of power plants specify to the ISO prices at which they are prepared to generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. The ISOs will generally dispatch in merit order, calling on the lowest variable cost units first and dispatching progressively higher-cost units until the point that the entire system demand for power (known as the system “load”) is satisfied reliably. Base load units are dispatched first, with load following units next, followed by peaking units.

During periods when one or more parts of the transmission grid are operating at full capability, thereby resulting in a constraint on the transmission system, it may not be possible to dispatch units in merit order without violating transmission reliability standards. Under such circumstances, the ISO will dispatch higher-cost generation out of merit order within the congested area and power suppliers will be paid an increased Locational Marginal Price (LMP) in congested areas, reflecting the bid prices of those higher-cost generation units.

The following chart depicts the unconstrained merit order of dispatch of our units in PJM Interconnection L.L.C. (PJM), the ISO in the region where most of our generation units are located, based on illustrative historical dispatch cost. It should be noted that market price fluctuations have resulted in changes from historical norms, with lower gas prices allowing some gas-fired generation to displace some coal-fired generation in the load-following portion of the curve.



The size of each facility's circle in the above chart illustrates the relative MW generating capacity of that facility. For additional information on each of our generation facilities, see Item 2. Properties.

The bid price of the last unit dispatched by an ISO establishes the energy market-clearing price. After considering the market-clearing price and the effect of transmission congestion and other factors, the ISO calculates the LMP for every location in the system. The ISO pays all units that are dispatched their respective LMP for each MWh of energy produced, regardless of their specific bid prices. Since bids generally approximate the marginal cost of production, units with lower marginal costs typically generate higher operating profits than units with comparatively higher marginal costs.

This method of determining supply and pricing creates a situation where natural gas prices often have a major influence on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong demand. Therefore, significant changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into significant changes in the wholesale price of electricity. This can be seen in the following graphs which present historical annual spot prices and forward calendar prices as averaged over each year at two liquid trading hubs.





















Historical data and forward prices imply that the price of natural gas will continue to have a strong influence on the price of electricity in the primary markets in which we operate.

The prices reflected in the preceding graphs above do not necessarily illustrate our contract prices, but they are representative of market prices at relatively liquid hubs, with nearer-term forward pricing generally resulting from more liquid markets than pricing for later years. In addition, the prices do not reflect locational differences resulting from congestion or other factors, such as the availability of natural gas from the Marcellus and other shale-gas regions, which can be considerable. While these prices provide some perspective on past and future prices, the forward prices are highly volatile and there can be no assurance that such prices will remain in effect or that we will be able to contract output at these forward prices.

Fuel Supply

•Nuclear Fuel Supply—We have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for:

•purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride),

•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride,









•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and

•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies.

•Coal Supply—Our Keystone, Conemaugh and Bridgeport stations operate on coal. Our Hudson and Mercer stations have the ability to operate on both coal and natural gas. We have coal contracts with numerous suppliers. Coal is delivered to our units through a combination of rail, truck, barge or ocean shipments.

In order to control emissions levels, our Bridgeport 3 unit uses a specific type of coal obtained from Indonesia. If the supply from Indonesia or equivalent coal from other sources was not available for this facility, its long-term operations would be adversely impacted since additional material capital expenditures would be required to modify this station to enable it to operate using a broader mix of coal sources.

•Gas Supply—Natural gas is the primary fuel for the bulk of our load following and peaking fleet. We purchase gas directly from natural gas producers and marketers. These supplies are transported to New Jersey bythreeinterstate pipelines with which we have contracted. In addition, we have firm gas transportation contracts to serve our BEC station in New York.

We have1.3 billioncubic feet-per-day of firm transportation capacity under contract to meet our obligations under the BGSS contract. This transportation capacity includes approximately0.6 billioncubic feet-per-day of access to the northeast Pennsylvania Marcellus shale gas region. We supplement that supply with a total storage capacity of76 billioncubic feet. On an as-available basis, this firm transportation capacity may also be used to serve the gas supply needs of our generation fleet.

•Oil—Oil is used as the primary fuel foroneload following steam unit andninecombustion turbine peaking units and can be used as an alternate fuel by several load following and peaking units that have dual-fuel capability. Oil for operations is drawn from on-site storage and is generally purchased on the spot market and delivered by truck, barge or pipeline.

We expect to be able to meet the fuel supply demands of our customers and our own operations. However, the ability to maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand, curtailments by suppliers, severe weather and other factors. For additional information, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A)—Overview of 2013 and Future Outlook and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Markets and Market Pricing

The vast majority of Power’s generation assets are located in three centralized, competitive electricity markets operated by ISO organizations all of which are subject to the regulatory oversight of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC):

•PJM Regional Transmission Organization—PJM conducts the largest centrally dispatched energy market in North America. It serves over61 millionpeople, nearly20%of the total United States population, and has a peak demand of165,492MW. The PJM Interconnection coordinates the movement of electricity through all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. The majority of our generating stations operate in PJM.

•New York—The New York ISO (NYISO) is the market coordinator for New York State and is responsible for managing the New York Power Pool and for administering its energy marketplace. This service area has a population of about20 millionand a peak demand of33,939MW. Our BEC station operates in New York.

•New England—The ISO-New England (ISO-NE) is the market coordinator for the New England Power Pool and for administering its energy marketplace which covers Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island. This service area has a population of about14 millionand a peak demand of28,130MW. Our Bridgeport and New Haven stations operate in Connecticut.

The price of electricity varies by location in each of these markets. Depending upon our production and our obligations, these price differentials can serve to increase or decrease our profitability.

Commodity prices, such as electricity, gas, coal, oil and emissions, as well as the availability of our diverse fleet of generation units to operate, also have a considerable effect on our profitability. These commodity prices have been, and continue to be, subject to significant market volatility. Over the long-term, the higher the forward prices are, the more attractive an environment exists for us to contract for the sale of our anticipated output. However, higher prices also increase the cost of









replacement power; thereby placing us at greater risk should our generating units fail to function effectively or otherwise become unavailable.

Over the past few years, a decline in wholesale natural gas prices has resulted in lower electric energy prices. One of the reasons for the decline in natural gas prices is greater supply from more recently developed sources, such as shale gas. This trend has reduced margin on forward sales as we re-contract our expected generation output.

In addition to energy sales, we earn revenue from capacity payments for our generating assets. These payments are compensation for committing our generating capacity to the ISO for dispatch at its discretion. Capacity payments reflect the value to the ISO of assurance that there will be sufficient generating capacity available at all times to meet system reliability and energy requirements. Currently, there is sufficient capacity in the markets in which we operate. However, in certain areas of these markets there are transmission system constraints which raise concerns about reliability and create a more acute need for capacity.

In PJM and ISO-NE, where we operate most of our generation, the market design for capacity payments provides for a structured, forward-looking, transparent capacity pricing mechanism. This is through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) in PJM and the Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in ISO-NE. These mechanisms provide greater transparency regarding the value of capacity and provide a pricing signal to prospective investors in new generating facilities so as to encourage expansion of capacity to meet future market demands.

The prices to be received by generating units in PJM for capacity have been set through RPM base residual auctions and depend upon the zone in which the generating unit is located. For each delivery year, the prices differ in the various areas of PJM, depending on the constraints in each area of the transmission system. Keystone and Conemaugh receive lower prices than the majority of our PJM generating units since there are fewer constraints in that region and our generating units in northern New Jersey usually receive higher pricing.

Our PJM generating units are located in several zones and Power expects to realize the following average capacity prices from the base auctions which have been completed:

Delivery YearMW-dayJune 2013 to May 2014$244June 2014 to May 2015$162June 2015 to May 2016$167June 2016 to May 2017$166

The price that must be paid by an entity serving load in the various zones is also set through these auctions. These prices can be higher or lower than the prices noted in the table above due to import and export capability to and from lower-priced areas.

Like PJM and ISO-NE, the NYISO provides capacity payments to its generating units, but unlike the other two markets, the New York market does not provide a forward price signal beyond a six month auction period.

We have obtained price certainty for our PJM and New England capacity through May2017through the RPM and FCM pricing mechanisms.

On a prospective basis, many factors may affect the capacity pricing, including but not limited to:

•load and demand,

•available amounts of demand response resources,

•capacity imports from external regions,

•available generating capacity (including retirements, additions, derates, forced outages, etc.),

•transmission capability between zones,

•pricing mechanisms, including potentially increasing the number of zones to create more pricing sensitivity to   changes in supply and demand, as well as other potential changes that PJM and the other ISOs may propose over time, and

•legislative and/or regulatory actions that permit states to subsidize local electric power generation.

For additional information on the RPM and FCM markets, as well as on state subsidization through various mechanisms, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.









Hedging Strategy

To mitigate volatility in our results, we seek to contract in advance for a significant portion of our anticipated electric output, capacity and fuel needs. We seek to sell a portion of our anticipated lower-cost generation over a multi-year forward horizon, normally over a period of two to three years. We believe this hedging strategy increases stability of earnings.

Among the ways in which we hedge our output are: (1) sales at PJM West and (2) BGS contracts. Sales at PJM West reflect block energy sales at the liquid PJM Western Hub and other transactions that seek to secure price certainty for our generation related products. In addition, the BGS-Fixed Price contract, a full requirements contract that includes energy and capacity, ancillary and other services, is awarded for three-year periods through an auction process managed by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU). The volume of BGS contracts and the electric utilities that our generation operations serve will vary from year to year. Pricing for the BGS contracts, including a capacity component, for recent and future periods by purchasing utility is as follows:

Load Zone ($/MWh)2010-20132011-20142012-20152013-20162014-2017PSE&G$95.77$94.30$83.88$92.18$97.39Jersey Central Power & Light$95.17$92.56$81.76$83.70$84.44Atlantic City Electric$98.56$100.95$85.10$87.27$87.80Rockland Electric Company$103.32$106.84$92.51$92.58$95.61

Although we enter into these hedges in an effort to provide price certainty for a large portion of our anticipated generation, there is variability in both our actual output as well as in our hedges. Our actual output will vary based upon total market demand, the relative cost position of our units compared to other units in the market and the operational flexibility of our units. Our hedge volume can also vary, depending on the type of hedge into which we have entered. The BGS auction, for example, results in a contract that provides for the supplier to serve a percentage of the default load of a New Jersey electric distribution company (EDC), that is, the load that remains after some customers have chosen to be served directly either by third party suppliers or through municipal aggregation. The amount of power supplied through the BGS auction varies based on the level of the EDC's default load, which is affected by the number of customers who choose a third party supplier, as well as by other factors such as weather and the economy.

In recent years, as market prices declined from previous levels, there was an incentive for more of the smaller commercial and industrial electric customers to switch to third party suppliers. In a falling price environment, this has a negative impact on our margins, as the anticipated BGS pricing is replaced by lower spot market pricing. As average BGS rates have declined to a level that more closely resembles current market prices, customers may see less of an incentive to switch to third party suppliers. We are unable to determine the degree to which this switching, or “migration,” will continue, but the impact on our results could be material should market prices fall significantly.

As of February 11, 2014, we had contracted for the following percentages of our anticipated base load generation output for the next three years with modest amounts beyond 2016.

Base Load Generation201420152016Generation Sales100%75%-80%30%-35%

In a changing market environment, this hedging strategy may cause our realized prices to differ materially from current market prices. In a rising price environment, this strategy normally results in lower margins than would have been the case if little or no hedging activity had been conducted. Alternatively, in a falling price environment, this hedging strategy will tend to create margins higher than those implied by the then current market.

Our fuel strategy is to maintain certain levels of uranium in inventory and to make periodic purchases to support such levels. Our nuclear fuel commitments cover approximately100%of our estimated uranium, enrichment and fabrication requirements through 2015 and a portion of 2016. We also have various long-term fuel purchase commitments for coal to support our fossil generation stations. These purchase obligations are consistent with our strategy to enter into contracts for its fuel supply in comparable volumes to our sales contracts.

We take a more opportunistic approach in hedging our anticipated natural gas-fired generation. The generation from these units is less predictable, as a significant portion of these units will only dispatch when aggregate market demand has exceeded the supply provided by lower-cost units. Additionally, the recent development of low-cost gas supplies in the Marcellus region presents opportunities during certain portions of the year to procure gas for our generating units at attractive prices.













PSE&G

Our regulated transmission and distribution public utility, PSE&G, distributes electric energy and gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately6.2 millionpeople, or about70%of New Jersey's population resides.



Products and Services

Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the transmission and distribution of electricity and the distribution of gas.

•Transmission—the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the FERC.

•Distribution—the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer’s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the BPU.

The commodity portion of our utility business’ electric and gas sales is managed by BGS and BGSS suppliers. Pricing for those services are set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility operations.

We also earn margins through competitive services, such as appliance repair.

In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to increase the level of regulated solar generation within New Jersey, including:

•programs to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area, and

•programs to develop, own and operate solar power systems.

We have also implemented a set of energy efficiency and demand response programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and cost saving measures directly to businesses and families. For additional information











concerning these programs and the components of our tariffs, see Regulatory Issues—State Regulation and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

How PSE&G Operates

We are a transmission owner in PJM and we provide distribution service to2.2 millionelectric customers and1.8 milliongas customers in a service area that covers approximately2,600square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most heavily populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including itssixlargest cities and approximatelythree hundredsuburban and rural communities.

Transmission

We use formula rates for our transmission cost of service and investments. Formula-type rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula which considers Operations and Maintenance expenditures, Rate Base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of capital. Our approved rates provide for a base ROE of11.68%on existing and new transmission investment, while certain investments are entitled to earn an additional incentive rate. For more information, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation.

Transmission StatisticsDecember 31, 2013Network Circuit MilesBilling Peak (MW)Historical Annual Load   Growth 2009-20131,49910,414(0.5)%

During 2013, we continued to execute our five major regional transmission projects for which we were assigned construction responsibility by PJM:

Major Transmission ProjectsAs of December 31, 2013ProjectTotal Estimated Project CostsTotal Project SpendExpected In-Service DateMillionsSusquehanna-Roseland$790$661June 2014/June 2015Northeast Grid Reliability$907$228June 2015North Central Reliability$390$349June 2014Burlington-Camden 230kV$399$301June 2014Mickleton-Gloucester-Camden 230kV$435$122June 2015



In December 2013, we were assigned construction by PJM of a new transmission project that will provide a double-circuit 345kV line in the Bergen-Linden Corridor to maintain reliability. This project has an expected in-service date of June 2018, and an estimated construction cost of up to $1.2 billion. The net increase in PSE&G’s capital expenditures is expected to be less than the estimated cost of the 345 kV project, as it will eliminate the need for certain other projects that had been previously assigned by PJM.



Distribution

PSE&G distributes gas and electricity to end users in our service territory. Our load requirements were split among residential, commercial and industrial customers, as described in the following table for2013. We believe that we have all the franchise rights (including consents) necessary for our electric and gas distribution operations in the territory we serve.











% of 2013 SalesCustomer TypeElectricGasCommercial57%36%Residential33%60%Industrial10%4%Total100%100%

While our customer base has remained steady, gas load has increased and electric load has declined as illustrated:

Electric and Gas Distribution StatisticsDecember 31, 2013Number ofCustomersElectric Sales and GasSold and TransportedHistorical Annual Load Growth 2009-2013Electric2.2Million41,277GWh(1.1)%Gas1.8Million3,813Million Therms2.1%

The decline in electric sales is the result of changes in customer usage patterns, including conservation, and the slowdown in economic activity that occurred during the recent recession. Gas sales increased as a result of increased usage by non-firm customers as a result of lower gas prices and more favorable winter weather.

Solar Generation

In order to support New Jersey's Energy Master Plan and the state's renewable energy goals, we have undertaken two major solar initiatives at PSE&G, the Solar Loan Program and the Solar 4 All Program. Our Solar Loan Program provides solar system financing to our residential and commercial customers. The loans are repaid with cash or solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs). We sell the SRECs used to repay the loans through a periodic auction, the proceeds of which are used to offset program costs. Our Solar 4 All Program invests in utility-owned solar PV centralized solar systems installed on PSE&G property and third party sites, and solar panels installed on distribution system poles in our electric service territory. We sell the energy and capacity from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition, we sell SRECs generated by the projects through the same periodic auction used in the loan program, the proceeds of which are used to offset program costs. As of December 31, 2013, we have invested an aggregate of approximately$700 millionin both solar programs.

Supply

Although commodity revenues make up almost43%of our revenues, we make no margin on the supply of electricity and gas since the actual costs are passed through to our customers.

All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their own electric energy and/or gas supplier. Pursuant to the BPU requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for two types of electric and gas customers within our service territory that are not served by another supplier. The first type, which represents about80%of PSE&G’s load requirements, provides default supply service for smaller industrial and commercial customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Fixed Price). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-CIEP).

We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey’s EDCs. Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set. Approximately one-third of PSE&G’s total BGS-Fixed Price eligible load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. For information on current prices, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

PSE&G procures the supply requirements of its default service BGSS gas customers through a full requirements contract with Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE&G’s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each











year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to5%and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilitiesfor information on recent self-implementing credits. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. Commercial and industrial customers that do not have third party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market-based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts.

Markets and Market Pricing

Historically, there has been significant volatility in commodity prices. Such volatility can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs from our customers may be deferred under our regulated rate structure. A declining commodity price on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect. For additional information, including the impact of natural gas commodity prices on electricity prices such as BGS, see Item 7. MD&A—Overview of 2013 and Future Outlook.



Other

Energy Holdings primarily owns and manages a portfolio of lease investments. Over the past several years, we have terminated all of our international leveraged leases in order to reduce the cash tax exposure related to these leases. We have also reduced our risk by opportunistically monetizing all of our previous international investments.

The majority of Energy Holdings' remaining$825 millionof domestic lease investments are primarily energy-related leveraged leases. As of December 31, 2013,70%of our total leveraged lease investments were rated as below investment grade by Standard & Poor's.

Energy Holdings' leveraged leasing portfolio is designed to provide a fixed rate of return. Leveraged lease investments involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed80%with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long-term financing to the transaction secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long-term financing is non-recourse to the lessor and, with respect to our lease investments, is not presented on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The lessor acquires economic and tax ownership of the asset and then leases it to the lessee for a period of time no greater than80%of its remaining useful life. As the owner, the lessor is entitled to depreciate the asset under applicable federal and state tax guidelines. The lessor receives income from lease payments made by the lessee during the term of the lease and from tax benefits associated with interest and depreciation deductions with respect to the leased property. Our ability to realize these tax benefits is dependent on operating gains generated by our other operating subsidiaries and allocated pursuant to the consolidated tax sharing agreement between us and our operating subsidiaries.

Lease rental payments are unconditional obligations of the lessee and are set at levels at least sufficient to service the non-recourse lease debt. The lessor is also entitled to any residual value associated with the leased asset at the end of the lease term. An evaluation of the after-tax cash flows to the lessor determines the return on the investment. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), the leveraged lease investment is recorded net of non-recourse debt and income is recognized as a constant return on the net unrecovered investment.

For additional information on leases, including the credit, tax and accounting risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Credit Risk, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 8. Financing ReceivablesandNote 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

On December 31, 2013, PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI) and the Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) entered into a twelve year Amended and Restated Operations Services Agreement (OSA) effective January 1, 2014 to operate LIPA’s electric transmission and distribution (T&D) system in Long Island, New York. As required by the OSA, PSEG LI also provides administrative support functions to LIPA. PSEG LI uses its brand in the Long Island T&D service area. Pursuant to the OSA, PSEG LI acts as LIPA's agent in performing many of its obligations and in return (a) receives reimbursement for pass-through operating expenditures, (b) receives a fixed management fee, and (c) is eligible to receive an incentive fee contingent on meeting established performance metrics. In addition, there is the opportunity for the parties to extend the contract for an additional eight years subject to the achievement by PSEG LI of certain performance levels during the initial term of the OSA. Also, beginning in 2015, Power will provide fuel procurement and power management services to LIPA under separate agreements.











COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

Power

Various market participants compete with us and one another in buying and selling in the wholesale energy markets, entering into bilateral contracts and selling to aggregated retail customers. Our competitors include:

•merchant generators,

•domestic and multi-national utility generators,

•energy marketers,

•banks, funds and other financial entities,

•fuel supply companies, and

•affiliates of other industrial companies.

New additions of lower-cost or more efficient generation capacity could make our plants less economical in the future. Although it is not clear if this capacity will be built or, if so, what the economic impact will be, such additions could impact market prices and our competitiveness.

Our business is also under competitive pressure due to demand side management (DSM) and other efficiency efforts aimed at changing the quantity and patterns of usage by consumers which could result in a reduction in load requirements. A reduction in load requirements can also be caused by economic cycles, weather, municipal aggregation and other customer migration and other factors. In addition, how resources such as demand response and capacity imports are permitted to bid into the capacity markets also affects the prices paid to generators such as Power in these markets. It is also possible that advances in technology, such as distributed generation and micro grids, will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most central station electric production. To the extent that additions to the electric transmission system relieve or reduce congestion in eastern PJM where most of our plants are located, our revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules governing what types of transmission will be built, who is permitted to build transmission and who will pay the costs of future transmission could also impact our revenues.

Adverse changes in energy industry law, policies and regulation, including market structures and a potential shift away from competitive markets toward subsidized market mechanisms, would have the effect of artificially depressing prices in the competitive wholesale market and thus have the potential to harm competitive markets, on both a short-term and a long-term basis.

Environmental issues, such as restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other pollutants, may also have a competitive impact on us to the extent that it becomes more expensive for some of our plants to remain compliant, thus affecting our ability to be a lower-cost provider compared to competitors without such restrictions. In addition, most of our plants, which are located in the Northeast where rules are more stringent, can be at an economic disadvantage compared to our competitors in certain Midwest states. If any new legislation were to require our competitors to meet the environmental standards currently imposed upon us, we would likely have an economic advantage since we have already installed significant pollution-control technology at most of our fossil stations.

In addition, pressures from renewable resources could increase over time. For example, many parts of the country, including the mid-western region within the footprint of the Midwest Independent System Operator (MISO), the California ISO and the PJM region, have either implemented or proposed implementing changes to their respective regional transmission planning processes that may enable the construction of large amounts of “public policy” transmission to move renewable generation to load centers. For additional information, see the discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation, below.

PSE&G

Our transmission and distribution business is minimally impacted when customers choose alternate electric or gas suppliers since we earn our return by providing transmission and distribution service, not by supplying the commodity. Increased reliance by customers on net-metered generation, including solar, and changes in customer behaviors can result in decreased reliance on our system and impact our revenues and investment opportunities. The demand for electric energy and gas by customers is affected by customer conservation, economic conditions, weather and other factors not within our control.

Changes in the current policies for building new transmission lines, such as those ordered by the FERC and being implemented by PJM and other ISOs to eliminate contractual provisions that provide us a “right of first refusal” to construct projects in our service territory, could result in third party construction of transmission lines in our area in the future and also allow us to seek











opportunities to build in other service territories. For additional information, see the discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation, below.

Construction of new local generation also has the potential to reduce the need for the construction of new transmission to transport remote generation and alleviate system constraints.



EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had9,887employees within our subsidiaries, including6,125covered under collective bargaining agreements. In December 2013, we reached agreement with one of our six labor unions to extend its collective bargaining agreement for three years through April, 2017. Our other collective bargaining agreements expire in April 2017 with three labor unions, in October 2017 with one labor union and in May 2018 with one labor union. We believe we maintain satisfactory relationships with our employees.

Employees as of December 31, 2013PowerPSE&GOtherNon-Union1,2241,548990Union1,4094,7079Total Employees2,6336,255999

Effective January 1, 2014, in connection with our new management contract with LIPA we assumed the collective bargaining agreement between National Grid, LIPA's previous management contractor, and a labor union. This union contract expires in February, 2015. We commenced operations in Long Island with approximately 1,400 union employees and 700 non-union employees.



REGULATORY ISSUES

Federal Regulation

FERC

The FERC is an independent federal agency that regulates the transmission of electric energy and gas in interstate commerce and the sale of electric energy and gas at wholesale pursuant to the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the Natural Gas Act. PSE&G and the generation and energy trading subsidiaries of Power are public utilities as defined by the FPA. The FERC has extensive oversight over such public utilities. FERC approval is usually required when a public utility seeks to: sell or acquire an asset that is regulated by the FERC (such as a transmission line or a generating station); collect costs from customers associated with a new transmission facility; charge a rate for wholesale sales under a contract or tariff; or engage in certain mergers and internal corporate reorganizations.

The FERC also regulates generating facilities known as qualifying facilities (QFs). QFs are cogeneration facilities that produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy, or small power production facilities where the primary energy source is renewable, biomass, waste or geothermal resources. QFs must meet certain criteria established by the FERC. We own various QFs through Power. QFs are subject to some, but not all, of the same FERC requirements as public utilities.

The FERC also regulates Regional Transmission Operators/ISOs, such as PJM, and their energy and capacity markets.

For us, the major effects of FERC regulation fall into five general categories:

•Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues

•Energy Clearing Prices

•Capacity Market Issues

•Transmission Regulation

•Compliance









Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues

Market Power

Under FERC regulations, public utilities must receive FERC authorization to sell power in interstate commerce. They can sell power at cost-based rates or apply to the FERC for authority to make market-based rate (MBR) sales. For a requesting company to receive MBR authority, the FERC must first make a determination that the requesting company lacks market power in the relevant markets and/or that market power in the relevant markets is sufficiently mitigated. The FERC requires that holders of MBR tariffs file an update every three years demonstrating that they continue to lack market power and/or that market power has been sufficiently mitigated and report in the interim to the FERC any material change in facts from those the FERC relied on in granting MBR authority.

PSE&G, PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC, PSEG Power Connecticut, PSEG Fossil LLC, PSEG Nuclear LLC and PSEG New Haven LLC all have been granted MBR authority from the FERC. Each of these companies, except PSEG New Haven LLC (which received MBR authority in May 2012), filed a market power update with the FERC at the end of 2013, which the FERC must accept in order for these companies to retain MBR authority. Retention of MBR authority is important to the maintenance of our current generation business’ revenues. The matter is pending.

Energy Clearing Prices

Energy clearing prices in the markets in which we operate are generally based on bids submitted by generating units. Under FERC-approved market rules, bids are subject to price caps and mitigation rules applicable to certain generation units. The FERC rules also govern the overall design of these markets. At present, all units receive a single clearing price based on the bid of the marginal unit (i.e. the last unit that must be dispatched to serve the needs of load). These FERC rules have a direct impact on the energy prices received by our units.

Capacity Market Issues

PJM, the NYISO, and the ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have been approved by the FERC. The FERC regulates these markets and held a technical conference in September 2013 to examine whether the market design for these three capacity markets is working optimally. One of the specific issues being considered by the FERC is whether capacity market rules are properly responding to, and fostering the development of, state public policies, demand response and emerging technologies. We cannot predict what action, if any, the FERC might take with regard to capacity market design.

PJM—RPM is the locational installed capacity market design for the PJM region, including a forward auction for installed capacity. Under RPM, generators located in constrained areas within PJM are paid more for their capacity as an incentive to ensure adequate supply where generation capacity is most needed. The mechanics of RPM in PJM continue to evolve and be refined in stakeholder proceedings in which we are active. There is currently significant discussion about (i) the future role of demand response in the RPM market, including examining how demand response resources should be paid and how these resources and programs - both existing and planned - should be measured, verified and bid in RPM to ensure their availability, (ii) the setting of the Cost of New Entry (CONE) value for the RPM demand curve for the next three years, which is a major input in establishing the price generators will be paid in RPM, (iii) the future process for submitting below Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR) bids by subsidized generation into the capacity market, as further discussed below and (iv) the impact of “seams” issues on the PJM capacity market, such as the extent to which the rules governing generation located within PJM are being equally applied to generation imported into PJM from the MISO, as further discussed below.

The FERC has recently issued an order capping the amount of "limited" demand response resources (i.e. resources which can only be called on by PJM a limited number of times during the summer months) that can clear in PJM's capacity auctions. PJM expects that capping "limited" demand response participation will have an upward effect on capacity prices in the next auction.

MISO—MISO does not have a mandatory capacity market in place, as load serving entities may submit Fixed Resource Adequacy Plans in lieu of participating in the capacity auction. In the May 2013 RPM auction, the difference between the MISO and PJM capacity markets was highlighted, as significant amounts of MISO generation were bid as imports into PJM and cleared in RPM. MISO is seeking to facilitate additional exports. The FERC is currently examining this "capacity portability" issue. To the extent that MISO generation is not subject to the same types of rules and requirements as generation located within PJM, Power could be adversely impacted.

ISO-NE—ISO-NE’s market for installed capacity in New England provides fixed capacity payments for generators, imports and demand response. The market design consists of a forward-looking auction for installed capacity that is intended to recognize the locational value of resources on the system and contains incentive mechanisms to encourage availability during stressed system conditions. The FERC has recently issued an order requiring the implementation of a downward sloping demand curve, similar to the design in place in PJM, for use in ISO-NE's ninth capacity market auction to be held in February 2015 and effective in the 2018-2019 power year. This action is expected to result in greater stability of capacity prices in New









England. As in PJM, capacity market rules in the ISO-NE continue to develop, with significant issues still under consideration, including the number and location of capacity zones to be utilized and how the ISO-NE addresses the impact of state-funded programs such as renewable resources.

NYISO—NYISO operates a short-term capacity market that provides a forward price signal only for six months into the future. The NYISO capacity model currently recognizes only two separate zones that potentially may separate in price: New York City and Long Island. On August 13, 2013, the FERC issued an order approving NYISO’s April 30, 2013 filing establishing the boundaries of a third capacity zone that will encompass the super zone that includes the lower Hudson Valley and New York City to take effect May 1, 2014. The FERC is also currently considering what type of generation unit should be used as the reference unit for the purposes of establishing the CONE in the “rest of State” zone (excluding the lower Hudson Valley, New York City and Long Island). This issue is significant since it will set the demand curve on which future capacity prices paid to generators will be based for the period May 1, 2014 through April 30, 2017. In January 2014, the FERC issued an order accepting the NYISO’s proposed reference unit (a unit with no environmental controls), which may have the effect of depressing capacity prices. This order is subject to rehearing.

Discussions at the FERC concerning other potential changes to NYISO capacity markets, including rules to govern payments and bidding requirements for generators proposing to exit the market but required to remain in service for reliability reasons, are also ongoing.

Long-Term Capacity Agreement Pilot Program Act (LCAPP)—In 2011, the State of New Jersey enacted the LCAPP to subsidize approximately2,000MW of new natural gas-fired generation. The LCAPP provided that subsidies would be offered through long-term standard offer capacity agreements (SOCAs) between selected generators and the New Jersey EDCs. The SOCA required each New Jersey EDC to provide the generators with guaranteed capacity payments funded by ratepayers. Each of the New Jersey EDCs, including PSE&G, entered into three SOCAs as directed by the State, but did so under protest reserving their rights.

In 2013, the U.S. District Court in New Jersey found that the LCAPP was unconstitutional and declared the LCAPP null and void. This federal court decision is currently being challenged on appeal in the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. The State of Maryland also took action to subsidize above-market new generation. This action was also determined to be unconstitutional in 2013 in the U.S. District Court in Maryland. The federal court decision is currently being challenged in the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals.

As a result of the New Jersey U.S. District Court’s final decision, PSE&G terminated the SOCA contracts in November 2013 with CPV Shore, LLC (CPV), a subsidiary of Competitive Power Ventures, Inc. and Hess Newark, LLC (Hess), a subsidiary of Hess Corporation, the counterparties to two of the SOCA contracts, by providing written notice in accordance with the terms of the SOCA contracts. The third SOCA contract had been terminated earlier in 2013 due to a default by the generator.

Transmission Regulation

The FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to establish the rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate transmission. We currently have FERC-approved formula rates in effect to recover the costs of our transmission facilities. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are then trued up the following year to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures. Our allowed ROE is11.68%for both existing and new transmission investments and we have received incentive rates, affording a higher ROE, for certain large scale transmission investments. For information about our transmission formula rate, including our 2014 Annual Formula Rate update filing with the FERC, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

Our 2013 Annual Formula Rate Update with the FERC provided for approximately$174 millionin increased annual transmission revenues effective January 1, 2013. Our 2014 Annual Formula Rate Update with the FERC provides for approximately$171 millionin increased annual transmission revenues effective January 1, 2014.

•Transmission Policy Developments—The FERC concluded in Order No. 1000 that the incumbent transmission owner should not always have a “right of first refusal” (ROFR) to construct and own transmission projects in its service territory. We have challenged the FERC's elimination of the ROFR in federal court, which challenge remains pending. PJM is currently implementing new rules under which the construction of certain types of transmission projects is no longer subject to a ROFR for incumbents. The FERC has also approved the “state agreement approach” to cost allocation under which transmission projects being built to address public policy concerns may be placed into PJM's planning process if the state sponsoring the project agrees to pay the costs of the project. To date, no such projects have been placed into the planning process but this mechanism could potentially facilitate transmission projects that are not needed for reliability or market efficiency under PJM standards for transmission, including potential offshore wind projects proposed by third parties, should a state or states agree to fund the costs of such projects.









We cannot predict the final outcome or impact on us; however, specific implementation of Order 1000 in the various regions, including within our service territory, may expose us to competition from third party construction of certain transmission projects within our service territory while at the same time providing opportunities to build transmission outside of our service territory.

•Transmission Rate Proceedings—InSeptember 2011, a complaint was filed by several state utility commissions and consumer advocates against transmission owners in New England challenging their base ROE. In August 2013, a FERC Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) issued a decision finding the utilities' base ROE to no longer be just and reasonable. In February 2013, several state utility commissions and consumer advocates, including the BPU and the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel, also filed a complaint at the FERC challenging the base ROE and formula transmission rate implementation protocols of transmission owners in Maryland, Pennsylvania, Delaware and New Jersey. This complaint remains pending. In addition, on November 12, 2013, a group of industrial customers in MISO filed a complaint against the MISO transmission owners, requesting that the FERC reduce the transmission owners’ base ROE and eliminate the ROE adders for among other things, participation in an RTO. Alternatively, the customers requested that the FERC find the base ROE to be unjust and unreasonable and expeditiously establish settlement procedures. Further, on February 6, 2014, a public power association in New York filed a complaint against one of the New York transmission owners asking the FERC to reduce the ROE used to calculate the transmission owner’s rates. The results of these proceedings could set a precedent for the FERC-regulated transmission owners with formula rates in place, such as ours.

The FERC has issued an order setting for hearing and settlement procedures certain rate challenges raised by a municipal electric cooperative against a transmission owner in PJM. Specifically, the electric cooperative challenged the prudency of categories of costs included by the transmission owner in its formula rate. The FERC found that the challenges raised issues of fact that warranted examination at hearing. While we are not the subject of the challenge, the result of this proceeding could set a precedent for other transmission owners with formula rates in place, including PSE&G.

Compliance

•FERC Audit—Each of the PSEG companies that have MBR authority from the FERC is being audited by the FERC for compliance with its rules for (i) receiving and retaining MBR authority (ii) the filing of electric quarterly reports and (iii) our units' receipt of payments from the RTO/ISO when they are required to run for reliability reasons when it is not economical for them to do so. The FERC will issue a report at the conclusion of the audit.

•Reliability Standards—Congress has required the FERC to put in place, through the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability of the United States electric transmission and generation system and to prevent major system blackouts. Many reliability standards have been developed and approved. These standards apply both to reliability of physical assets interconnected to the bulk power system and to the protection of critical cyber assets. In 2013, the FERC enacted new rules that will bring our generating units within the scope of the standards applicable to critical cyber assets and increase our compliance responsibilities.



Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the SEC and the CFTC are in the process of implementing a new regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps. The legislation was enacted to reduce systemic risk, increase transparency and promote market integrity within the financial system by providing for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers and by imposing recordkeeping, data reporting, margin and clearing requirements with respect to swaps. To implement the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has engaged in a comprehensive rulemaking process and has issued a number of proposed and final rules addressing many of the key issues. We are currently subject to record keeping and data reporting requirements applicable to commercial end users. The CFTC has also proposed rules establishing position limits for trading in certain commodities, such as natural gas, and we are currently analyzing the potential impact of these rules on our business.









Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)

Our operation of nuclear generating facilities is subject to comprehensive regulation by the NRC, a federal agency established to regulate nuclear activities to ensure protection of public health and safety, as well as the security and protection of the environment. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements. Continuous demonstration to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements is also necessary. The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. The current operating licenses of our nuclear facilities expire in the years shown in the following table:

UnitYearSalem Unit 12036Salem Unit 22040Hope Creek2046Peach Bottom Unit 22033Peach Bottom Unit 32034

As a result of events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear facility in Japan following the earthquake and tsunami in 2011, the NRC began performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the United States. These reviews and the lessons learned from the events in Japan have resulted in additional regulation for the nuclear industry and could impact future operations and capital requirements for our facilities. We believe that our nuclear plants currently meet the stringent applicable design and safety specifications of the NRC.

In 2011, the NRC task force submitted a report containing various recommendations to ensure plant protection, enhance accident mitigation, strengthen emergency preparedness and improve NRC program efficiency. The NRC staff also issued a document which provided for a prioritization of the task force recommendations. The NRC approved the staff's prioritization and implementation recommendations subject to a number of conditions. Among other things, the NRC advised the staff to give the highest priority to those activities that can achieve the greatest safety benefit and/or have the broadest applicability (Tier 1), to review filtration of boiling water reactor (BWR) primary containment vents and encouraged the staff to create requirements based on a performance-based system which allows for flexible approaches and the ability to address a diverse range of site-specific circumstances and conditions and strive to implement the requirements by 2016. The NRC issued letters and orders to licensees implementing the Tier 1 recommendations in March 2012.

Separately, a petition was filed with the NRC in April 2011 seeking suspension of the operating licenses of all General Electric BWRs utilizing the Mark I containment design in the United States, including our Hope Creek and Peach Bottom units, pending completion of the NRC review. Fukushima Daiichi Units 1-4 are BWRs equipped with Mark I containments. The petition names 23 of the total 104 active commercial nuclear reactors in the United States. While we do not believe the petition will be successful, we are unable to predict the outcome of any action that the NRC may take in connection with the petition.

On March 19, 2013, the NRC initiated a rulemaking process for improvements to venting systems at 31 U.S. BWRs with “Mark I” and “Mark II” containments (similar to those at Fukushima), which include our Hope Creek Unit and Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3. On June 6, 2013, the NRC issued orders requiring Mark I and Mark II licensees to upgrade or replace their reliable hardened vents with containment venting systems designed and installed to remain functional during severe accident conditions. For our Hope Creek and Peach Bottom units, final installation of the required modifications is expected to occur during the planned refueling outages in 2016-2018.

The NRC is currently developing the regulatory basis for the filtering strategies rulemaking. That evaluation is expected to be completed in December 2014. The NRC continues to evaluate potential revisions to its requirements in connection with its operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the United States as a result of the Fukushima Daiichi incident.

We are unable to predict the final outcome of these reviews or the cost of any actions we would need to take to comply with any new regulations, including possible modifications to our Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom facilities, but such cost could be material.

State Regulation

Since our operations are primarily located within New Jersey, our principal state regulator is the BPU, which oversees electric and natural gas distribution companies in New Jersey. We are also subject to various other states’ regulations due to our operations in those states.

Our New Jersey utility operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of retail electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance and sale of certain types of securities and compliance matters. PSE&G's participation in solar, demand response and energy efficiency programs is also regulated by the









BPU, as the terms and conditions of these programs are approved by the BPU. BPU regulation can also have a direct or indirect impact on our power generation business as it relates to energy supply agreements and energy policy in New Jersey.

We must file electric and gas rate cases with the BPU in order to change our utility base distribution rates. Our last base rate case was settled in 2010. In addition to base rates, we recover certain costs or earn on certain investments pursuant to mechanisms known as adjustment clauses. These clauses permit the flow-through of costs to, or the recovery of investments from, customers related to specific programs, outside the context of base rate case proceedings. Recovery of these costs or investments is subject to BPU approval for which we make periodic filings. Delays in the pass-through of costs or recovery of investments under these mechanisms could result in significant changes in cash flow. For additional information on our specific filings, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 6. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

Significant state regulatory matters that may have an impact on our business are as follows:

Energy Strong Program—In February 2013, we filed a petition with the BPU describing the improvements we recommend making to our BPU jurisdictional electric and gas system to improve resiliency for the future. The changes that were described would be made over a ten-year period. In this petition, we are seeking approval to invest$0.9 billionin our gas distribution system and$1.7 billionin our electric distribution system over an initial five-year period, plus associated expenses, and to receive contemporaneous recovery of and on such investments. The current estimated cost of the entire program, including the first five years of investments for which we sought approval in this petition, is$3.9 billion. We anticipate seeking BPU approval to complete our investment under the program at a later date. We have continued to respond to data requests from the BPU, the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel and intervenors. All required public hearings were completed in October 2013, and the review of PSE&G’s proposal is ongoing at the BPU. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter. For additional information, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Requirements.

Storm Proceedings

New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP)—New Jersey law requires that an EMP be developed every three years, the purpose of which is to ensure safe, secure and reasonably-priced energy supply, foster economic growth and development and protect the environment. While not having the force of law, the EMP provides an overview of energy policy in New Jersey and may provide both opportunities and challenges for PSEG. The most recent EMP was finalized in December 2011 and placed an emphasis on expanding in-state electricity resources, reducing energy costs, recognizing the impact of climate change and setting new targets for a renewable portfolio standard and goals for energy supplies from clean energy sources.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Changing environmental laws and regulations significantly impact the manner in which our operations are currently conducted and impose costs on us to reduce the health and environmental impacts of our operations. To the extent that environmental requirements are more stringent and compliance more costly in certain states where we operate compared to other states that are part of the same market, such rules may impact our ability to compete within that market. Due to evolving environmental regulations, it is difficult to project future costs of compliance and their impact on competition. Capital costs of complying with known pollution control requirements are included in our estimate of construction expenditures in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed by future regulations are not known, but may be material.

Areas of environmental regulation may include, but are not limited to:

•air pollution control,

•climate change,









•water pollution control,

•hazardous substance liability, and

•fuel and waste disposal.

For additional information related to environmental matters, including proceedings not discussed below, as well as anticipated expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, hazardous substance liabilities and fuel and waste disposal costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

Air Pollution Control

Our facilities are subject to federal regulation under the Clean Air Act (CAA) which requires controls of emissions from sources of air pollution and imposes record keeping, reporting and permit requirements. Our facilities are also subject to requirements established under state and local air pollution laws. The CAA requires all major sources, such as our generation facilities, to obtain and keep current an operating permit. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed and included in these permits in the future could be material and are not included in our estimates of capital expenditures.

•Nitrogen Oxide (NOx)Regulation: New Jersey High Electric Demand Day—In April 2009, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) finalized revisions to NOxemission control regulations that impose new NOxemission reduction requirements and limits for New Jersey fossil fuel-fired electric generation units. The rule has an impact on our generation fleet, as it imposes NOxemissions limits that require capital investment for controls or the retirement of up to86combustion turbines (approximately1,750MW) and four older New Jersey steam electric generation units (approximately400MW) by May 2015. See Item 8. Financial and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilitiesfor further discussion of this issue.

•Hazardous Air Pollutants Regulation—In February 2012,theEPA published under the National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants provisions of the CAA, Mercury Air Toxics Standards (MATS) for both newly-built and existing electric generating sources. The impact to our fossil generation fleet in New Jersey and Connecticut and our jointly-owned coal-fired generating facilities in Pennsylvania is further discussed in Item 8. Financial and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

•Demand Response (DR) Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines (RICE) Litigation—In March and April 2013, we filed petitions at the EPA and in federal court, respectively, challenging the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for RICE issued on January 30, 2013. Among other things, the final EPA rule allows owners and operators of stationary emergency RICE to operate their engines as part of an emergency DR program without the installation and operation of emission controls or compliance with emission limits otherwise applicable to non-emergency counterparts. This waiver of NESHAP standards results in disparate treatment of different generation technology types. In our appeal, we are seeking more stringent emission control standards for RICE to support more competitive markets, particularly the PJM capacity market. On June 28, 2013, the EPA announced that it would reconsider certain other items included in the final rule that are also subject to the appeal. We cannot predict the final outcome of the EPA's action regarding NESHAP.

•Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR)—In July 2011, the EPA issued the final CSAPR, which limits power plant emissions of Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) and annual and ozone season NOxin28states that contribute to the ability of downwind states to attain and/or maintain current particulate matter and ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). In August 2012, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (D.C. Court) vacated CSAPR and ordered that the existing Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) requirements remain in effect until an appropriate substitute rule has been promulgated. The purpose of CAIR is to improve ozone and fine particulate air quality within states that have not demonstrated achievement of the NAAQS. CAIR was implemented through a cap-and-trade program and, to date, the impact has not been material to us as the allowances allocated to our stations were sufficient. If 2014 operations are similar to those in the past four years, it is expected that the impact to our operations from CAIR in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut in 2014 will not be significant.

In June 2013, the Supreme Court announced that it would review the D.C. Court's decision. Oral arguments were held in December 2013. If the Supreme Court were to overturn the D.C. Court's ruling and reinstate CSAPR, we do not anticipate that there will be any material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. The EPA has announced its plan to propose a new rule in late 2014 to replace the vacated CSAPR that will solely address ozone NAAQS for NOx. We cannot determine the impact that this new rule might have on us.









Climate Change

•CO2Regulation Under theCAA—In April 2013, several industrial groups petitioned the Supreme Court to review various EPA rules issued under the CAA, including the Tailoring Rule, to regulate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including CO2. The Tailoring Rule requires a new source or an existing source which undergoes a major modification, to evaluate and perhaps install best available control technology (BACT) for GHG emissions. On October 15, 2013, the Supreme Court agreed to add the case to the docket for its current term to consider whether the EPA has authority to regulate CO2emissions of stationary sources, including power plants.

In April 2012, the EPA published the proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for GHG for new power plants only. On June 25, 2013, the President directed the EPA to propose revised NSPS for new power plants by September 20, 2013, propose GHG regulations for existing power plants by June 1, 2014, finalize such regulations by June 1, 2015 and require states to submit GHG implementation regulations by June 30, 2016.

On January 8, 2014, the EPA proposed revised NSPS for new power plants. The revised NSPS establish three emission standards for CO2emissions for the following categories: (i) fossil fuel-fired utility boilers and integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) units, (ii) large natural gas combustion turbines, and (iii) small natural gas combustion turbines. The EPA is requesting comment on use of an electric output sales threshold to determine applicability to the NSPS. This electric output sales threshold would eliminate the outright exclusion of simple cycle combustion turbines which was proposed in the initial April 2012 NSPS. We cannot predict the final outcome of these proposed standards.

If relevant federal or state common law were to impose liability upon those that emit GHGs for alleged impacts of GHGs emissions, such potential liability to our fossil generation operations could be material. However, approximately 60% of our generation output comes from nuclear facilities which are GHG-free and would not be impacted.

•Climate-Related Legislation—The federal government may consider legislative proposals to define a national energy policy and address climate change. Proposals under consideration include, but are not limited to, provisions to establish a national clean energy portfolio standard and to establish an energy efficiency resource standard. Provisions of any new proposal may present material risks and opportunities to our businesses. The final design of any legislation will determine the impact on us, which we are not now able to reasonably estimate.

•Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI)—In response to concerns over global climate change, some states have developed initiatives to stimulate national climate legislation through CO2emission reductions in the electric power industry. Certain northeastern states (RGGI States), including New York and Connecticut where we have generation facilities, havestate-specific rules in place to enable the RGGI regulatory mandate in each state to cap and reduce CO2emissions.

These rules make allowances available through a regional auction whereby generators may acquire allowances that are each equal to one ton of CO2emissions. Generators are required to submit an allowance for each ton emitted over a three-year period. Allowances are available through the auction or through secondary markets.

On February 7, 2013, the RGGI States released an updated Model Rule that, among other things, reduces the amount of available regional CO2allowances beginning in 2014. Each RGGI State must implement the changes through state-specific regulations. We do not expect these changes, or any future changes, to the RGGI rules will have a material impact on us.

New Jersey withdrew from RGGI beginning in 2012. As a result, our New Jersey facilities are no longer obligated to acquire CO2emission allowances. This action has been challenged by environmental groups in the New Jersey state court. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.

New Jersey also adopted the Global Warming Response Act in 2007, which calls for stabilizing its GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, followed by a further reduction of greenhouse emissions to80%below 2006 levels by 2050. To reach this goal, the NJDEP, the BPU, other state agencies and stakeholders are required to evaluate methods to meet and exceed the emission reduction targets, taking into account their economic benefits and costs.

Water Pollution Control

The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) prohibits the discharge of pollutants to U.S. waters from point sources, except pursuant to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the EPA or by a state under a federally authorized state program. The FWPCA authorizes the imposition of technology-based and water quality-based effluent limits to regulate the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and ground waters. The EPA has delegated authority to a number of state agencies, including those in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, to administer the NPDES program









through state action. We also have ownership interests in facilities in other jurisdictions that have their own laws and implement regulations to control discharges to their surface waters and ground waters that directly govern our facilities in those jurisdictions.

•Steam Electric Effluent Guidelines—In April 2013, the EPA issued notice of a proposed rule that would further limit the discharge of pollutants in wastewater from the operation of coal-fired generating facilities. Our co-owned Keystone and Conemaugh facilities continue to use technologies that generate these wastewater discharges. However, our other coal-fired facilities no longer discharge many of these types of wastewater pollutants. We are unable to predict the impact on Keystone and Conemaugh but do not believe there would be any material impact on our other coal-fired facilities.

In addition to regulating the discharge of pollutants, the FWPCA regulates the intake of surface waters for cooling. The use of cooling water is a significant part of the generation of electricity at steam-electric generating stations. Section 316(b) of the FWPCA requires that cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available (BTA) for minimizing adverse environmental impact. The impact of regulations under Section 316(b) can be significant, particularly at steam-electric generating stations which do not have closed cycle cooling through the use of cooling towers to recycle water for cooling purposes. The installation of cooling towers at an existing generating station can impose significant engineering challenges and significant costs, which can affect the economic viability of a particular plant.

•Cooling Water Intake Structure Regulation—In 2011, the EPA published a new proposed rule which did not establish any particular technology as the BTA (e.g. closed-cycle cooling). Instead, the proposed rule established marine life mortality standards for existing cooling water intake structures with a design flow of more than two million gallons per day. We reviewed the proposed rule, assessed the potential impact on our generating facilities and used this information to develop our comments to the EPA which were filed in August 2011. In June 2012, the EPA posted a Notice of Data Availability (NODA) requesting comment on a series of technical issues related to the impingement mortality proposed standards. The EPA also posted a second NODA outlining its plans to finalize a “Willingness to Pay” survey it initiated to develop non-use benefits data in support of the initial rule proposal. We and industry trade associations submitted comments on both NODAs in July 2012. The EPA has rescheduled the date for adoption of a final rule several times. The EPA is currently scheduled to issue a final rule on April 17, 2014.

If the rule were to be adopted as originally proposed, the impact on us would be material since the majority of our electric generating stations would be affected. We are unable to predict the outcome of this proposed rulemaking, the final form that the proposed regulations may take and the effect, if any, that they may have on our future capital requirements, financial condition or results of operations, although such impacts could be material. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilitiesfor additional information.

On October 1, 2013, the Delaware Riverkeeper Network and several other environmental groups filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of New Jersey seeking to force the NJDEP to take action on our pending application for permit renewal at Salem either by denying the application or issuing a draft for public comment. The permit is currently pending the EPA’s finalization of the Clean Water Act 316(b) regulations. We were not named in the lawsuit nor do we know how this legal action will proceed but it could have a material impact on us.

Hazardous Substance Liability

The production and delivery of electricity, the distribution of gas and, formerly, the manufacture of gas, results in various by-products and substances classified by federal and state regulations as hazardous. These regulations may impose liability for damages to the environment from hazardous substances, including obligations to conduct environmental remediation of discharged hazardous substances as well as monetary payments, regardless of the absence of fault and the absence of any prohibitions against the activity when it occurred, as compensation for injuries to natural resources. Our historic operations and the operations of hundreds of other companies along the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers are alleged by federal and state agencies to have discharged substantial contamination into the Passaic River/Newark Bay Complex. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.

•Site Remediation—The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act (Spill Act) require the remediation of discharged hazardous substances and authorize the EPA, the NJDEP and private parties to commence lawsuits to compel clean-ups or reimbursement for such remediation. The clean-ups can be more complicated and costly when the hazardous substances are in a body of water.

•Natural Resource Damages—CERCLA and the Spill Act authorize the assessment of damages against persons who have discharged a hazardous substance, causing an injury to natural resources. Pursuant to the Spill Act, the NJDEP









requires persons conducting remediation to characterize injuries to natural resources and to address those injuries through restoration or damages. The NJDEP adopted regulations concerning site investigation and remediation that require an ecological evaluation of potential damages to natural resources in connection with an environmental investigation of contaminated sites. The NJDEP also issued guidance to assist parties in calculating their natural resource damage liability for settlement purposes, but has stated that those calculations are applicable only for those parties that volunteer to settle a claim for natural resource damages before a claim is asserted by the NJDEP. We are currently unable to assess the magnitude of the potential financial impact of this regulatory change, although such impacts could be material.

Fuel and Waste Disposal

•Nuclear Fuel Disposal—The federal government has entered into contracts with the operators of nuclear power plants for transportation and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel. To pay for this service, nuclear plant owners are required to contribute to a Nuclear Waste Fund. In accordance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, in 2009 the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) conducted its annual review of the adequacy of the Nuclear Waste Fee and concluded that the current fee of 1/10 cent per kWh was adequate to recover program costs. In 2011, we joined the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) and fifteen other nuclear plant operators in a lawsuit in federal court seeking suspension of the Nuclear Waste Fee. In June 2012, the court ruled that the DOE failed to justify continued payments by electricity consumers into the Nuclear Waste Fund and ordered the DOE to conduct a complete reassessment of this fee.

Spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor can be stored in reactor facility storage pools or in Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations located at reactors or away from reactor sites. We have on-site storage facilities that are expected to satisfy the storage needs of Salem 1, Salem 2, Hope Creek, Peach Bottom 2 and Peach Bottom 3 through the end of their operating licenses. In November 2013, the court ordered the DOE Secretary to submit a proposal to Congress to adjust the fee to zero. In January 2014, the DOE Secretary comported with the court order and submitted the zero fee adjustment change letter to Congress, subject to DOE appeal rights. Absent Congressional and/or further Court action, the fee will revert to zero after ninety days of continuous legislative session. The earliest this is anticipated to occur is in the third quarter of 2014. If the fee were to be eliminated, Power would see an annualized pre-tax benefit of approximately $30 million.

•Low Level Radioactive Waste—As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low level radioactive waste. Such waste includes paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification materials and other materials. These waste materials are accumulated on site and disposed of at licensed permanent disposal facilities. New Jersey, Connecticut and South Carolina have formed the Atlantic Compact, which gives New Jersey nuclear generators continued access to the Barnwell waste disposal facility which is owned by South Carolina. We believe that the Atlantic Compact will provide for adequate low level radioactive waste disposal for Salem and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses including full decommissioning, although no assurances can be given. Low Level Radioactive Waste is periodically being shipped to the Barnwell site from Salem and Hope Creek. Additionally,there are on-site storage facilities for Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom, which we believe have the capacity for at least five years of temporary storage for each facility.

•Coal Combustion Residuals (CCRs)—In June 2010, the EPA published a proposed rule offering three main options for the management of CCRs under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. One of these options regulates CCRs as a hazardous waste. The final outcome of the EPA's proposed rulemaking cannot be predicted.

In April 2012, several environmental organizations and CCR marketers brought a citizens' suit against the EPA in federal court arguing that the EPA has a non-discretionary duty to issue the CCR rules by a certain date. In May 2012, the Utility Solid Waste Activities Group, of which PSEG is a member, filed a Motion to Intervene in order to be in alignment with the EPA in defending against the environmental organizations' action. On October 29, 2013, the Court issued a decision requiring the EPA to establish a regulatory deadline to issue the CCR Final Rule.



SEGMENT INFORMATION

Financial information with respect to our business segments is set forth in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 23. Financial Information by Business Segment.















