Item 1.  Business



General



Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851.  The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936.  The Company’s name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989.



Corning Incorporated is a world leader in the manufacture of specialty glass and ceramics.  Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, optical communications and life sciences.  Corning operates in five reportable segments:  Display Technologies, Optical Communications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences.  Corning manufactures and processes products at approximately 90 plants in 17 countries.



Display Technologies Segment





Through the end of 2013, the Display Technologies segment also included the equity affiliate Samsung Corning Precision Materials Co., Ltd. (“Samsung Corning Precision Materials”), of which Corning owned 57.5% and Samsung Display Co., Ltd. (“Samsung Display”) owned 42.5%.  To extend Corning’s leadership in specialty glass and drive earnings growth, Corning entered into a series of strategic and financial agreements with Samsung Display intended to strengthen product and technology collaborations between the two companies (“Acquisition”).  Corning completed this transaction on January 15, 2014.



Index-1-





The following is a summary of the series of transactions, and the impacts to the Display Technologies segment:



·Corning obtained full ownership of Samsung Corning Precision Materials.  This organization, named Corning Precision Materials, was integrated into Corning’s Display Technologies segment during 2014.·Corning and Samsung Display extended their long-term LCD display glass supply agreement through 2023.·The two companies’ strengthened their technology collaborations on strategic product development and commercialization initiatives.In connection with these agreements, in the fourth quarter of 2013, Corning acquired the minority interests of three shareholders in Samsung Corning Precision Materials for $506 million, which included payment for the transfer of non-operating assets and the pro-rata portion of cash on Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ balance sheet at September 30, 2013.  The resulting transfer of shares to Corning increased Corning’s ownership percentage of Samsung Corning Precision Materials from 50% to 57.5%.  Because this transaction did not result in a change in control based on the governing documents of this entity, Corning did not consolidate this entity as of December 31, 2013.  The remaining transactions were completed on January 15, 2014, which increased Corning’s ownership to 100% and resulted in consolidation of the entity beginning in the first quarter of 2014.



LCD glass manufacturing is a capital intensive business.  Important attributes for success include efficient manufacturing, access to capital, technology know-how, and patents.  As a result of the transactions with Samsung Display, Corning expects to realize increased flexibility in glass-melting capabilities, which will allow the company to re-evaluate the need for major capital expenditures for additional fusion glass manufacturing assets.



Corning has LCD glass manufacturing operations in the United States, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China.  Following the Acquisition, Corning services all specialty glass customers in all regions directly, utilizing its manufacturing facilities throughout Asia.



Patent protection and proprietary trade secrets are important to the Display Technologies segment’s operations.  Corning has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.  Corning licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates royalty income from these licenses.  Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to patents and trademarks.



The Display Technologies segment represented 40% of Corning’s sales in 2014.



Optical Communications Segment



Corning invented the world’s first low-loss optical fiber in 1970.  Since that milestone, we have continued to pioneer optical fiber, cable and connectivity solutions.  As global bandwidth demand driven by video usage grows exponentially, networks continue to migrate from copper to optical-based systems that can deliver the required cost-effective bandwidth-carrying capacity.  Our unrivaled experience puts us in a unique position to design and deliver optical solutions that reach every edge of the communications network.



Our Optical Communications segment has recently evolved from being a manufacturer of optical fiber and cable, hardware and equipment to being a comprehensive provider of industry-leading optical solutions across the broader communications industry.  This segment is classified into two main product groupings – carrier network and enterprise network.  The carrier network product group consists primarily of products and solutions for optical-based communications infrastructure for services such as video, data and voice communications.  The enterprise network product group consists primarily of optical-based communication networks sold to businesses, governments and individuals for their own use.



Our carrier network product portfolio begins with optical fiber products, including VascadeÒsubmarine optical fibers for use in submarine networks; LEAFÒoptical fiber for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; SMF-28ÒULL fiber for more scalable long-haul and regional networks; SMF-28e+Ôsingle-mode optical fiber that provides additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks; ClearCurveÒultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple-dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications; and Corning® SMF-28® Ultra Fiber, designed for high performance across the range of long-haul, metro, access, and fiber-to-the-home network applications, combining the benefits of industry-leading attenuation and improved macrobend performance in one fiber.  Our optical fiber is sold directly to end users or third-party cablers around the world.  Corning’s remaining fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical solution.  Corning’s cable products support various outdoor, indoor/outdoor and indoor applications and include a broad range of loose tube, ribbon and drop cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor use.



Index-2-





In addition to optical fiber and cable, our carrier network product portfolio also includes hardware and equipment products, including cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware, fiber optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures, network interface devices, and other accessories.  These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various carrier network applications.  Examples of these solutions include our FlexNAPTMterminal distribution system, which provides pre-connectorized distribution and drop cable assemblies for cost-effectively deploying Fiber-to-the-Home (“FTTH”) networks; and the CentrixTMplatform, which provides a high-density fiber management system with industry-leading density and innovative jumper routing that can be deployed in a wide variety of carrier switching centers.



To keep pace with surging demand for mobile bandwidth, Corning has a full complement of operator-grade distributed antenna systems (“DAS”), including the recently developed Optical Network Evolution (“ONE”) wireless platform.  ONE is the first all-optical converged cellular and Wi-Fi® solution built on an all-optical backbone with modular service support.  The ONE™ Wireless Platform provides virtually unlimited bandwidth, and meets all of the wireless service needs of large-scale enterprises at a lower cost than the typical DAS solution.



In addition to our optical-based portfolio, Corning’s carrier network portfolio also contains select copper-based products including subscriber demarcation, connection and protection devices, xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures.  In addition, Corning offers coaxial RF interconnects for the cable television industry as well as for microwave applications for GPS, radars, satellites, manned and unmanned military vehicles, and wireless and telecommunications systems.



Our enterprise network product portfolio also includes optical fiber products, including ClearCurveÒultra-bendable multimode fiber for data centers and other enterprise network applications; InfiniCorÒfibers for local area networks; and more recently ClearCurveÒVSDNÒultra-bendable optical fiber designed to support emerging high-speed interconnects between computers and other consumer electronics devices.  The remainder of Corning’s fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical solution.  Corning’s cable products include a broad range of tight-buffered, loose tube and ribbon cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor applications that meet local building code requirements.



Corning’s hardware and equipment products for enterprise network applications include cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware, fiber optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures and other accessories.  These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various network applications.  Examples of enterprise network solutions include the Pretium EDGEÒplatform, which provides high-density pre-connectorized solutions for data center applications, and continues to evolve with recent updates for upgrading to 40/100G applications and port tap modules for network monitoring; the previously mentioned ONE Wireless platform, which spans both carrier and enterprise network applications; and our recently introduced optical connectivity solutions to support customer initiatives.



In 2014, we introduced Corning® Fibrance™ Light-Diffusing Fiber, a glass optical fiber optimized for thin, colorful, aesthetic lighting.  Fibrance Light-Diffusing Fiber enables decorative lighting to be designed or embedded into tight or small places where other bulky lighting elements cannot fit, thereby enhancing a product’s overall aesthetics and user experience, and opening up new design possibilities for a variety of markets such as automotive, architecture, consumer electronics or appliances.



Corning operates manufacturing facilities worldwide.  Our optical fiber manufacturing facilities are located in North Carolina, China and India.  Cabling operations include facilities in North Carolina, Germany, Poland, China and smaller regional locations and equity affiliates.  Our manufacturing operations for hardware and equipment products are located in North Carolina, Texas, Arizona, Mexico, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, Poland, Israel, Australia and China.



Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations.  The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.  The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income is not currently material to this segment’s operating results.  Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment’s operations.  Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Optical Communications segment represented 27% of Corning’s sales for 2014.



Index-3-





Environmental Technologies Segment



Corning’s Environmental Technologies segment manufactures ceramic substrates and filter products for emissions control in mobile and stationary applications around the world.  In the early 1970s, Corning developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard for catalytic converters in vehicles worldwide.  As global emissions control regulations tighten, Corning has continued to develop more effective and durable ceramic substrate and filter products for gasoline and diesel applications.  Corning manufactures substrate and filter products in New York, Virginia, China, Germany and South Africa.  Corning sells its ceramic substrate and filter products worldwide to catalyzers and manufacturers of emission control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers.  Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of Corning substrates and filters is generally required by the specifications of the automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers.



Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations.  The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.  Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are also considered important to the segment’s operations.  Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Environmental Technologies segment represented 11% of Corning’s sales for 2014.



Specialty Materials Segment

The Specialty Materials segment manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.  Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets that include display optics and components, semiconductor optics components, aerospace and defense, astronomy, ophthalmic products, telecommunications components and cover glass that is optimized for portable display devices.

Our cover glass, known as Corning® Gorilla® Glass, is a thin sheet glass designed specifically to function as a cover glass for display devices such as tablets, notebook PCs and mobile phones.  Elegant and lightweight, Corning Gorilla Glass is durable enough to resist many real-world events that commonly cause glass failure, enabling exciting new applications in technology and design.  Early in 2012, Corning launched Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2, the next generation in our Corning Gorilla Glass suite of products.  Corning Gorilla Glass 2 enables up to a 20% reduction in glass thickness, while maintaining the industry-leading damage resistance, toughness and scratch-resistance.  In 2013, we introduced Corning® Gorilla® Glass 3 with Native Damage Resistance and Corning® Gorilla® Glass NBT™, designed to help protect touch notebook displays from scratches and other forms of damage that come from everyday handling and use.  And in the fourth quarter of 2014, Corning announced its latest breakthrough innovation in consumer electronics material design, Corning® Gorilla® Glass 4, which delivers the highest damage resistance performance versus all alternative compositions, and has the capability to significantly improve device drop performance.



Corning Gorilla Glass is manufactured in Kentucky, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan.Semiconductor optics manufactured by Corning includes high-performance optical material products, optical-based metrology instruments, and optical assemblies for applications in the global semiconductor industry.  Corning’s semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York.Other specialty glass products include glass lens and window components and assemblies and are made in New York, New Hampshire, Kentucky and France or sourced from China.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations.  The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.  Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment.  Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Specialty Materials segment represented approximately 12% of Corning’s sales for 2014.



Index-4-





Life Sciences Segment



As a leading developer, manufacturer and global supplier of scientific laboratory products for 100 years, Corning’s Life Sciences segment collaborates with researchers seeking new approaches to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines in the drug discovery process.  Using unique expertise in the fields of materials science, surface science, optics, biochemistry and biology, the segment provides innovative solutions that improve productivity and enable breakthrough discoveries.



Life Sciences laboratory products include general labware and equipment, as well as specialty surfaces, media and reagents that are used for cell culture research, bioprocessing, genomics, drug discovery, microbiology and chemistry.  Corning sells life science products under these primary brands: Corning, Falcon, PYREX, Axygen, and Gosselin.  The products are marketed worldwide, primarily through distributors to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities, and other research facilities.  Corning manufactures these products in the United States in Maine, New York, New Jersey, California, Utah, Virginia, Massachusetts and North Carolina, and outside of the U.S. in Mexico, France, Poland, and China.



In addition to being a global leader in consumable glass and plastic laboratory tools for life science research, Corning continues to develop and produce unique technologies aimed at simplifying customer lab processes, or “workflows”, through three key categories:



·Vessels – CorningÒHYPER platform of vessels for increased cell yields; Corning® Microcarriers for cell scale-up, therapy and vaccine applications;

·Surfaces – CorningÒCellBINDÒSurface; Corning®Matrigel®; Corning®BioCoatTM; Corning Synthemax® II Surface;

·Media – Corning® stemgro®



Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations.  The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.  Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment.  Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Life Sciences segment represented approximately 9% of Corning’s sales for 2014.



All Other



All other segments that do not meet the quantitative threshold for separate reporting have been grouped as “All Other.”  This group is primarily comprised of the results of Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD business and new product lines and development projects such as advanced flow reactors and adjacency businesses in pursuit of thin, strong glass.  This segment also includes certain corporate investments such as Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates, which manufacture smooth cooktop glass/ceramic products.



The All Other segment represented less than 1% of Corning’s sales for 2014.



Additional explanation regarding Corning and its five reportable segments is presented in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Corporate Investments



Corning and The Dow Chemical Company (“Dow Chemical”) each own half of Dow Corning Corporation (“Dow Corning”), an equity company headquartered in Michigan that manufactures silicone products worldwide.  Dow Corning is a leader in silicon-based technology and innovation, offering more than 7,000 products and services.  Dow Corning is the majority-owner of Hemlock Semiconductor Group (“Hemlock”), a market leader in the production of high purity polycrystalline silicon for the semiconductor and solar energy industries.  Dow Corning’s sales were $6,221 million in 2014.  Additional discussion about Dow Corning appears in the Legal Proceedings section.  Dow Corning’s financial statements are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.



Index-5-





Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own half of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (“PCC”), an equity company in Pennsylvania that manufactures glass products for architectural and industrial uses.  PCC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in April 2000.  Corning also owns half of Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. (“PCE”), a Belgian corporation that manufactures glass products for industrial uses primarily in Europe.  Additional discussion about PCC and PCE appears in the Legal Proceedings section.



Additional information about corporate investments is presented in Note 7 (Investments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Competition



Corning competes across all of its product lines with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign.  Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and some have broader product lines.  Corning strives to sustain and improve its market position through technology and product innovation.  For the future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, and its commitment to quality.  There is no assurance that Corning will be able to maintain or improve its market position or competitive advantage.



Display Technologies Segment



We believe Corning is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for active matrix LCD displays.  The environment for LCD glass substrate products is very competitive and Corning believes it has sustained its competitive advantages by investing in new products, providing a consistent and reliable supply, and using its proprietary fusion manufacturing process.  This process allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals.  Asahi Glass Co. Ltd. and Nippon Electric Glass Co. Ltd. are Corning’s principal competitors in display glass substrates.



Optical Communications Segment



Competition within the communications equipment industry is intense among several significant companies.  Corning is a leading competitor in the segment’s principal product groups, which include carrier network and enterprise network.  The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, price pressure and competition for the innovation of new products.  These competitive conditions are likely to persist.  Corning believes its large scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property yield cost advantages relative to several of its competitors.



The primary competing producers of the Optical Communications segment are TE Connectivity Ltd. and Prysmian Group.



Environmental Technologies Segment



For worldwide automotive ceramic substrate products, Corning has a major market position that has remained relatively stable over the past year.  Corning has also established a strong presence in the heavy duty and light duty diesel vehicle market and believes its competitive advantage in automotive ceramic substrate products for catalytic converters and diesel filter products for exhaust systems is based upon global presence, customer service, engineering design services and product innovation.  Corning’s Environmental Technologies products face principal competition from NGK Insulators, Ltd. and Ibiden Co. Ltd.



Specialty Materials Segment



Corning is one of very few manufacturers with deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology, and system assembly.  Additionally, we are addressing emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of chemically strengthened glass.  Corning Gorilla Glass is a thin-sheet glass that is better able to survive events that most commonly cause glass failure.  Its advanced composition allows a deeper layer of chemical strengthening than is possible with most other chemically strengthened glasses, making it both durable and damage resistant.  Our products and capabilities in this segment position the Company to meet the needs of a broad array of markets including display, semiconductor, aerospace/defense, astronomy, vision care, industrial/commercial, and telecommunications.  For this segment, Schott, Asahi Glass Co. Ltd., Nippon Electric Glass Co. Ltd. and Heraeus are the main competitors.



Life Sciences Segment



Corning seeks to maintain a competitive advantage by emphasizing product quality, product availability, supply chain efficiency, a wide product line and superior product attributes.  Our principle worldwide competitors include Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc. and  Perkin Elmer.  Corning also faces increasing competition from large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products.



Index-6-





Raw Materials



Corning’s production of specialty glasses, ceramics, and related materials requires significant quantities of energy, uninterrupted power sources, certain precious metals, and various batch materials.



Although energy shortages have not been a problem recently, the cost of energy remains volatile.  Corning has achieved flexibility through engineering changes to take advantage of low-cost energy sources in most significant processes.  Specifically, many of Corning’s principal manufacturing processes can be operated with natural gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.



Availability of resources (ores, minerals, polymers, helium and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appears to be adequate.  Corning’s suppliers, from time to time, may experience capacity limitations in their own operations, or may eliminate certain product lines.  Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch materials and precious metals.  For many products, Corning has alternate glass compositions that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of specific materials shortages.



Certain key materials and proprietary equipment used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers.  Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in product shipments, or reductions in Corning’s gross margins.



Patents and Trademarks



Inventions by members of Corning’s research and engineering staff have been, and continue to be, important to the Company’s growth.  Patents have been granted on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries.  Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers, including companies in which Corning has equity investments.  Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but Corning continues to seek and obtain patents protecting its innovations.  In 2014, Corning was granted about 400 patents in the U.S. and over 750 patents in countries outside the U.S.



Each business segment possesses a patent portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting Corning’s innovations.  Corning has historically enforced, and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights.  At the end of 2014, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned over 8,000 unexpired patents in various countries of which over 3,300 were U.S. patents.  Between 2015 and 2016, approximately 7% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations.  Worldwide, Corning has about 7,000 patent applications in process, with about 2,200 in process in the U.S.  Corning believes that its patent portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting Corning’s innovation, although Corning’s competitors in each of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well.



The Display Technologies segment has over 1,200 patents in various countries, of which about 300 are U.S. patents.  No one patent is considered material to this business segment.  Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications.  There is no group of important Display Technologies segment patents set to expire between 2015 and 2017.



The Optical Communications segment has over 3,100 patents in various countries, of which over 1,200 are U.S. patents.  No one patent is considered material to this business segment.  Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include: (i) patents relating to optical fiber products including low loss optical fiber, high data rate optical fiber, and dispersion compensating fiber, and processes and equipment for manufacturing optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber; (ii) patents relating to optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, fiber optic cable designs and methods for installing optical fiber cable; (iii) patents relating to optical fiber connectors, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture; and (iv) patents related to distributed communication systems.  There is no group of important Optical Communications segment patents set to expire between 2015 and 2017.



The Environmental Technologies segment has over 600 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents.  No one patent is considered material to this business segment.  Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products, together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products.  There is no group of important Environmental Technologies segment patents set to expire between 2015 and 2017.



Index-7-





The Specialty Materials segment has over 700 patents in various countries, of which over 350 are U.S. patents.  No one patent is considered material to this business segment.  Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to protective cover glass, ophthalmic glasses and polarizing dyes, and semiconductor/microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics, glass polarizers, specialty fiber, and refractories.  There is no group of important Specialty Materials segment patents set to expire between 2015 and 2017.



The Life Sciences segment has over 650 patents in various countries, of which about 250 are U.S. patents.  No one patent is considered material to this business segment.  Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use of scientific laboratory equipment including multiwell plates and cell culture products, as well as equipment and processes for label independent drug discovery.  There is no group of important Life Sciences segment patents set to expire between 2015 and 2017.



Products reported in All Other include development projects, new product lines, and other businesses or investments that do not meet the threshold for separate reporting.



Many of the Company’s patents are used in operations or are licensed for use by others, and Corning is licensed to use patents owned by others.  Corning has entered into cross-licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas or technologies.



Corning’s principal trademarks include the following:  Axygen, Corning, Celcor, ClearCurve, DuraTrap, Eagle XG, Epic, Evolant, Gosselin, Gorilla, HPFS, Lanscape, Pretium, Pyrex, Steuben, Falcon, SMF-28e, and Willow.



Protection of the Environment



Corning has a program to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations.  This program has resulted in capital and operating expenditures each year.  In order to maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution control in continuing operations were approximately $10 million in 2014 and are estimated to be $13 million in 2015.



Corning’s 2014 consolidated operating results were charged with approximately $49 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses associated with pollution control.  Corning believes that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.



Employees



At December 31, 2014, Corning had approximately 34,600 full-time employees, including approximately 11,500 employees in the United States.  From time to time, Corning also retains consultants, independent contractors, temporary and part-time workers.  Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 24.1% of Corning’s U.S. employees.



Index-8-





Executive Officers of the Registrant



James P. ClappinPresident, Corning Glass Technologies

Mr. Clappin joined Corning in 1980 as a process engineer.  He transitioned to GTE Corporation in 1983 when the Central Falls facility was sold and returned to Corning in 1988.  He began working in the display business in 1994.  Mr. Clappin relocated to Japan in 1996, as plant manager at Corning Display Technologies (CDT) Shizuoka facility.  In 2002, he was appointed as general manager of CDT worldwide business.  He served as president of CDT from September 2005 through July 2010.  He was appointed president, Corning Glass Technologies, in 2010.  Age 57.



Jeffrey W. EvensonSenior Vice President and Operations Chief of Staff

Dr. Evenson joined Corning in June 2011 and was elected to his current position at that time.  He serves on the Management Committee and oversees a variety of strategic programs and growth initiatives.  Prior to joining Corning, Dr. Evenson was a senior vice president with Sanford C. Bernstein, where he served as a senior analyst since 2004.  Before that, Dr. Evenson was a partner at McKinsey & Company, where he led technology and market assessment for early-stage technologies.  Age 49.



James B. FlawsVice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and served in a variety of controller and business management positions.  Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning in 1993, vice president and controller in 1997, vice president of finance and treasurer in May 1997, senior vice president and chief financial officer in December 1997, executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1999 and to his current position in 2002.  Mr. Flaws is a director of Dow Corning Corporation.  Mr. Flaws has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000.  Age 66.



Kirk P. GreggExecutive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as director of Executive Compensation.  He was named vice president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in 1994, senior vice president, Administration in December 1997 and to his current position in 2002.  He is responsible for Human Resources, Information Technology, Procurement and Transportation, Aviation, Community Affairs, Government Affairs, Business Services and Corporate Security.  Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director, Key Management Programs, and was responsible for executive compensation and benefits, executive development and recruiting.  Age 55.



Clark S. KinlinExecutive Vice President, Corning Optical Communications

Mr. Kinlin joined Corning in 1981 in the Specialty Materials division.  From 1985 to 1995 he worked in the Optical Fiber division.  In 1995, he joined Corning Consumer Products (CCP).  In 2000, Mr. Kinlin was named president, Corning International Corporation and, in 2003, he was appointed as general manager for Greater China.  From April 2007 to March 2008, he was chief operating officer, Corning Cable Systems (now Corning Optical Communications) and was named president and chief executive officer in 2008.  He was appointed executive vice president in 2012.  Age 55.



Lawrence D. McRaeExecutive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development

Mr. McRae joined Corning in 1985 and served in various financial, sales and marketing positions.  He was elected vice president Corporate Development in 2000, senior vice president Corporate Development in 2003, and senior vice president Strategy and Corporate Development in October 2005.  He was elected to his present position in October 2010.  Mr. McRae is on the board of directors of Dow Corning Corporation.  Age 56.



David L. MorseExecutive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Dr. Morse joined Corning in 1976 in glass research and worked as a composition scientist in developing and patenting several major products.  He served in a variety of product and materials research and technology director roles and was appointed division vice president and technology director for photonic technology groups beginning in March 1999.  He became director of corporate research, science and technology in December 2001.  He was elected vice president in January 2003, becoming senior vice president and director of corporate research in 2006.  Dr. Morse was elected to his current position in May 2012.  He is on the board of Dow Corning Corporation and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Chemistry Board.  Age 62.



Eric S. MusserExecutive Vice President, Corning Technologies and International

Mr. Musser joined Corning in 1986 and served in a variety of manufacturing positions at fiber plants in Wilmington, N.C. and Melbourne, Australia, before becoming manufacturing strategist for the Optical Fiber business in 1996.  Mr. Musser joined Corning Lasertron in 2000 and became president later that year.  He was named director, manufacturing operations for Photonic Technologies in 2002.  In 2003, he returned to Optical Fiber as division vice president, development and engineering and was named vice president and general manager in 2005.  In 2007, he was appointed general manager of Corning Greater China and was named president of Corning International in 2012.  Mr. Musser was appointed executive vice president in 2014.  Age 55.



Index-9-



Christine M. PambianchiSenior Vice President, Human Resources

Ms. Pambianchi joined Corning in 2000 as division human resource manager, Corning Optical Fiber, and later was named director, Human Resources, Corning Optical Communications.  She has led the Human Resources function since January 2008 when she was named vice president, Human Resources.  Ms. Pambianchi was appointed to senior vice president, Human Resources, in 2010, and is responsible for leading Corning’s global human resource function.  Age 46.



Lewis A. SteversonSenior Vice President and General Counsel

Mr. Steverson joined Corning in June 2013 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel.  Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Steverson served as senior vice president, general counsel, and secretary of Motorola Solutions, Inc.  During his 18 years with Motorola, he held a variety of legal leadership roles across the company’s numerous business units.  Prior to Motorola, Mr. Steverson was in private practice at the law firm of Arnold & Porter.  Age 51.



R. Tony TripenySenior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Tripeny joined Corning in 1985 as the corporate accounting manager of Corning Cable Systems, and became the Keller, Texas facility’s plant controller in 1989.  In 1993, he was appointed equipment division controller of Corning Cable Systems and, in 1996 corporate controller.  Mr. Tripeny was appointed chief financial officer of Corning Cable Systems in July 2000.  In 2003, he took on the additional role of Telecommunications group controller.  He was appointed division vice president, operations controller in August 2004, and vice president, corporate controller in October 2005.  Mr. Tripeny was elected to his current position in April 2009.  He is on the board of directors of Hardinge Inc.  Age 55.



Wendell P. WeeksChairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983.  He was named vice president and general manager of the Optical Fiber business in 1996, senior vice president in 1997, senior vice president of Opto-Electronics in 1998, executive vice president in 1999, and president, Corning Optical Communications in 2001.  Mr. Weeks was named president and chief operating officer of Corning in 2002, president and chief executive officer in 2005 and chairman and chief executive officer on April 26, 2007.  He added the title of president in December 2010.  Mr. Weeks is a director of Merck & Co. Inc.  Mr. Weeks has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000.  Age 55.



Document Availability



A copy of Corning’s 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Corporate Secretary, Corning Incorporated, Corning, NY 14831.  The Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and other filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished to the SEC, and can be accessed electronically free of charge, through the Investor Relations page on Corning’s web site atwww.corning.com.  The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Other



Additional information in response to Item 1 is found in Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 6 (Selected Financial Data).



