Item 1.    Business

General

Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936. The
Company’s name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989.

Corning is a global,
technology-based corporation that operates in five reportable business segments: Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences. Corning manufactures and processes products at
approximately 60 plants in 13 countries.

Display Technologies Segment

Corning’s Display Technologies segment manufactures glass substrates for active matrix liquid crystal displays (LCDs), that are used primarily in notebook computers, flat panel desktop monitors, and
LCD televisions. Corning’s facilities in Kentucky, Japan, Taiwan, and China and those of Samsung Corning Precision Glass Co., Ltd. (Samsung Corning Precision) develop, manufacture and supply high quality glass substrates using a proprietary
fusion manufacturing process and technology expertise. Corning owns 50% of Samsung Corning Precision, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. owns 43% and three other shareholders own the remaining 7%. Samsung Corning Precision sells LCD glass to panel
manufacturers in Korea, while those panel manufacturers in other leading LCD-producing areas of the world - Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and China - are supplied by Corning. Samsung Corning Precision’s financial statements are attached in
Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

Corning is a technology leader in this market introducing new large-sized glass
substrates used by our customers in the production of larger LCDs for monitors and television. We are recognized for providing product innovations that help our customers produce larger, lighter, thinner and higher-resolution displays more
affordably. In industry language, glass sizes advance in what are called generations. Glass substrates are currently available from Corning in sizes up to Generation 10 (2,850mm x 3,050mm). Generation 10 glass substrates are produced at our newest
manufacturing facility which opened in October 2009. This advanced facility, located at Sharp Corporation’s plant in Sakai City, Japan, eliminates the need for traditional packaging, shipping, and delivery methods. Large substrates (Generation
5 and higher) allow LCD manufacturers to produce larger and a greater number of panels from each substrate. The larger size leads to economies of scale for LCD manufacturers.

Corning invented its proprietary fusion manufacturing process, which is the cornerstone of the Company’s technology leadership in
the LCD industry. The automated process yields high quality glass substrates with excellent dimensional stability and uniformity - essential attributes for the production of increasingly larger, high performance active matrix LCDs. Corning’s
fusion process is scalable and has proven to be among the most effective processes in producing large size substrates. In 2006, Corning launched EAGLE XG™, the industry’s first environmentally-friendly LCD glass substrate that is free of heavy metals.

LCD glass manufacturing is a highly capital intensive business. Corning has made significant investments to expand its LCD glass facilities in response to customer demand. The environment is very
competitive. Important attributes for success include efficient manufacturing, access to capital, technology know-how, and patents.

Patent
protection and proprietary trade secrets are important to this segment’s operations. Corning has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Corning licenses certain of its patents to
Samsung Corning Precision and other third parties and generates royalty income from these licenses. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to patents and trademarks.

The Display Technologies segment represented 45% of Corning’s sales for 2009.







Telecommunications Segment

The Telecommunications segment produces optical fiber and cable, and hardware and equipment products for the worldwide
telecommunications industry. Corning invented the world’s first low-loss optical fiber 40 years ago and now offers a range of optical fiber technology products and enhancements for a variety of applications, including premises,
fiber-to-the-home access, metropolitan, long-haul and submarine networks. Corning makes and sells InfiniCor®fibers for local area networks, data centers and central offices; SMF-28e+™ single-mode optical fiber that provides additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks; SMF-28®ULL fiber; LEAF®optical fiber for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; ClearCurve®ultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications; ClearCurve®ultra-bendable multimode fiber for data centers and other enterprise networks; and Vascade®submarine optical fibers for use in submarine networks. Corning has two large optical fiber manufacturing facilities in North Carolina and another facility in China.
As a result of lowered demand for optical fiber products, in 2002 Corning mothballed its optical fiber manufacturing facility in Concord, North Carolina and transferred certain capabilities to its Wilmington, North Carolina facility. In 2007,
Corning reopened a portion of the Concord, North Carolina facility primarily as a result of volume growth in the optical fiber market.

A
significant portion of Corning’s optical fiber is sold to subsidiaries such as Corning Cable Systems LLC (Corning Cable Systems), and Corning Cable Systems Polska Sp. Z o.o. Optical fiber is cabled prior to being sold to end users in cabled
form. Corning’s remaining fiber production is sold directly to end users or third party cablers around the world. Corning’s cabling operations include facilities in North Carolina, Poland, and Germany and smaller regional locations and
equity affiliates.

Corning’s hardware and equipment products include cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware, fiber optic connectors,
optical components and couplers, closures and pedestals, splice and test equipment and other accessories for optical connectivity. For copper connectivity, Corning’s products include subscriber demarcation, connection and protection devices,
xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures. Each of the product lines may be combined in Corning’s fiber-to-the-premises solutions. Corning has manufacturing operations for hardware
and equipment products in North Carolina, Arizona, and Texas, as well as Europe, Mexico, and China. In addition, Corning offers products for the cable television industry, including coaxial connectors and associated tools.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies
and manufacturing processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income is not currently material to this segment’s operating results. Corning is licensed
to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment’s operations. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and
trademarks.

The Telecommunications segment represented 31% of Corning’s sales for 2009.

Environmental Technologies Segment

Corning’s environmental products include ceramic technologies for emissions and pollution control in mobile and stationary applications around the world, including automotive and diesel substrate and filter products. In the early
1970’s, Corning developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard for catalytic converters worldwide. In response to tightening emission control regulations around the world, Corning has continued to
develop more efficient substrate products with lower resistance to flow and greater surface area. In addition, Corning continues to develop new ceramic substrate and filter technologies for diesel emission control products to meet the tightening
emission control regulations around the world. Corning manufactures substrate and filter products in New York, Virginia, China, Germany and South Africa. Corning sells its ceramic substrate and filter products worldwide to manufacturers of emission
control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel engine manufacturers. Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of Corning substrates and filters is generally required by the specifications of the
automotive and diesel engine manufacturers.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has an extensive
portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment’s operations. Refer to the material under the
heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Environmental
Technologies segment represented 11% of Corning’s sales for 2009.







Specialty Materials Segment

The Specialty Materials segment manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs.
Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets that include display optics and components, semiconductor optics components, aerospace and defense, astronomy, ophthalmic products, telecommunications
components and a protective cover glass that is optimized for portable display devices. Semiconductor optics manufactured by Corning include high-performance optical material products, optical-based metrology instruments, and optical assemblies for
applications in the global semiconductor industry. Corning’s semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York. Other specialty glass products include glass lens and window components and assemblies and are made in New York, Virginia,
New Hampshire, Kentucky and France or sourced from China.

The Specialty Materials segment represented approximately 6% of Corning’s
sales for 2009.

Life Sciences Segment

As a leading developer, manufacturer and global supplier of scientific laboratory products for more than 90 years, Corning’s Life Sciences segment collaborates with researchers seeking new approaches
to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines in the drug discovery process. Using unique expertise in the fields of optics, materials science, surfaces, and biology, the segment provides innovative solutions that improve
productivity and enable breakthrough discoveries.

Life Sciences laboratory products include general labware and equipment
as well as tools for cell culture and bioprocess, genomics and proteomics, and high-throughput screening. Corning manufactures these products in Maine, New York, New Jersey, California, Utah, Mexico, France, Poland, and China. The products are
marketed worldwide, primarily through distributors, to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities, and other research facilities. In addition to being a global leader in consumable glass and
plastic laboratory tools for life science research, Corning continues to be a leader with the development and production of unique technologies such as the Corning®HYPERFlask®Cell Culture
Vessel for increased cell yields, and novel surfaces, such as the Corning®CellBIND®Surface and the Corning®Osteo-Assay surface.

In September 2009, Corning acquired
Axygen BioScience, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Axygen). Axygen is a leading manufacturer and distributor of high quality plastic consumables, liquid handling products and bench-top laboratory equipment. The acquisition of Axygen, which will be
integrated into Corning’s Life Sciences segment, supports Corning’s strategy to expand its portfolio of life sciences products and enhance global customer access in this business. In addition to its existing Corning, Costar and Pyrex
brands, Corning now sells life science products under the Axygen, Sorenson BioScience, Labnet, HTL, and ALP brands.

Patent protection is
important to the segment’s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition, through some well known trademarks, is important to the segment. Refer
to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Life Sciences segment represented approximately 7% of Corning’s sales for 2009.

All Other

Other products primarily include development projects and new product lines, certain corporate investments, Samsung Corning Precision’s non-LCD
business, and Corning’s Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates with Saint Gobain Vitrage S.A. of France which manufacture smooth cooktop glass/ceramic products in France, China, and South Carolina. Development projects and new product lines
involve the use of various technologies for new products such as synthetic green lasers, silicon-on-glass, advanced flow reactors, thin-film photovoltaics, and mercury abatement. In 2006, Corning announced the commercial launch of the Epic™
system, a high-throughput label-free screening platform based on optical biosensor technology. The system offers drug developers the ability to evaluate promising new drug targets through both biochemical and cell-based drug discovery applications.

In September 2009, Corning and Samsung Corning Precision formed Corsam Technologies LLC (Corsam), a new equity affiliate established to
provide glass technology research for future product applications. Corning and Samsung Corning Precision each own 50% of the common stock of Corsam and Corning has agreed to provide research and development services to Corsam.

Until December 31, 2007, Corning had a 50% interest in Samsung Corning Company, Ltd. (Samsung Corning), a producer of glass panels and funnels for
cathode ray tubes for televisions and computer monitors, which had manufacturing facilities in Korea, Germany, China and Malaysia. Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd. and affiliates owned the remaining 50% interest in Samsung Corning. On
December 31, 2007, Samsung Corning Precision acquired all of the outstanding shares of Samsung Corning. After the transaction, Corning retained its 50% interest in Samsung Corning Precision. As noted above, equity earnings from the non-LCD
business of Samsung Corning Precision are included in the All Other category.







All Other products represented less than 1% of Corning’s sales for 2009.

Additional explanation regarding Corning and its five segments is presented in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition under
Operating Review and Results of Operations and Note 20 (Operating Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Corporate
Investments

Corning and The Dow Chemical Company (Dow Chemical) each own half of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), an equity
company headquartered in Michigan that manufactures silicone products worldwide. Dow Corning is a leader in silicon-based technology and innovation, offering more than 7,000 products and services. Dow Corning is the majority-owner of Hemlock
Semiconductor, a market leader in the production of high purity polycrystalline for the semiconductor and solar energy industries. Dow Corning’s sales were $5.1 billion in 2009. Additional discussion about Dow Corning appears in the Legal
Proceedings section. Dow Corning’s financial statements are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own half of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC), an equity company in Pennsylvania that manufactures glass products for architectural and industrial uses. PCC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
reorganization in April 2000. Corning also owns half of Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation that manufactures glass products for industrial uses primarily in Europe. Additional discussion about PCC and PCE appears in the
Legal Proceedings section.

Additional information about corporate investments is presented in Note 7 (Investments) to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Competition

Corning competes across all of its product lines with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and some have broader product
lines. Corning strives to maintain its position through technology and product innovation. For the future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, and its commitment to quality. There is no
assurance that Corning will be able to maintain its market position or competitive advantage.

Display Technologies Segment

Corning, including Samsung Corning Precision, is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for active matrix LCD displays. Although the LCD
glass substrate industry was negatively impacted by economic conditions in 2008 and in the first quarter of 2009, demand increased in the second quarter and remained strong during the rest of 2009, allowing Corning to remain in a strong competitive
position. Corning believes it has sustained its competitive advantages in LCD glass substrate products by investing in new technologies, providing a consistent and reliable supply and using its proprietary fusion manufacturing process. This process
allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Asahi Glass, Nippon Electric Glass and Avan Strate, Inc. (formerly NH Techno) are Corning’s principal competitors in
display glass substrates.

Telecommunications Segment

Competition within the telecommunications equipment industry is intense among several significant companies. Corning is a leading competitor in the segment’s principal product lines, which include
optical fiber and cable and hardware and equipment. Price and new product innovations are significant competitive factors. The competitive landscape includes increasing competition, causing price pressure in all regions. These competitive conditions
are likely to persist.

Corning is the largest producer of optical fiber and cable products, but faces significant competition due to
continued excess manufacturing capacity in the market, price pressure and new product innovations. Corning believes its large scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property assets yield cost advantages
relative to several of its competitors. The primary competing producers of optical fiber and cable products are Furukawa Electric/OFS, Fujikura Ltd., Sumitomo Electric, Prysmian Cables & Systems and Draka Comteq.

For hardware and equipment products, significant competitors are 3M Company (3M), Tyco Electronics, Furukawa OFS, CommScope, and ADC Communications.







Environmental Technologies Segment

For worldwide automotive ceramic substrate products, Corning has a leading market position that has remained relatively stable over the past year. Corning believes its competitive advantage in automotive
ceramic substrate products for catalytic converters is based upon global presence, customer service, engineering design services and product innovation. Corning has established a strong presence in the heavy duty and light duty diesel vehicle
market. Corning’s Environmental Technologies products face principal competition from NGK, Denso, and Ibiden.

Specialty Materials
Segment

Corning is one of very few manufacturers with deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating,
finishing, metrology, and system assembly. Corning is addressing emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of its chemically strengthened glass. Our capabilities include sophisticated technologies in forming, coating,
and finishing that deliver high performance, durable solutions. These capabilities position the Company to meet the needs of a broad array of markets including aerospace/defense, display, semiconductor, astronomy, vision care, industrial/commercial,
and telecommunications. For this segment, Schott, Shin-Etsu Quartz Products, Asahi Fine Glass, Carl Zeiss, Nikon, NEG, Transitions Optical, Oerlikon, Hoya and Heraeus are the main competitors.

Life Sciences Segment

Corning is a
leading supplier of glass and plastic laboratory products, with a growing plastics products market presence in North America and Europe, and a solid laboratory glass products market presence. Corning seeks to maintain competitive advantages by
emphasizing product quality, product availability, supply chain efficiency, a wide product line and superior product attributes. For laboratory products, Greiner, Becton Dickinson, Kimble-Chase, and Duran are the principal worldwide competitors.
Corning also faces increasing competition from two large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products.

Raw Materials

Corning’s production of specialty glasses, ceramics, and related materials requires significant
quantities of energy, uninterrupted power sources, certain precious metals, and various batch materials.

Although energy shortages have not
been a problem recently, the cost of energy remains volatile. Corning has achieved flexibility through important engineering changes to take advantage of low-cost energy sources in most significant processes. Specifically, many of Corning’s
principal manufacturing processes can be operated with natural gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.

Availability of resources (ores, minerals, polymers, and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appears to be adequate. Corning’s suppliers, from time to time, may experience capacity limitations in their own
operations, or may eliminate certain product lines. Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch materials and precious metals. For many products, Corning has alternate glass compositions that would allow operations
to continue without interruption in the event of specific materials shortages.

Certain key materials and proprietary equipment used in the
manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in
product shipments, or reductions in Corning’s gross margins.

Patents and Trademarks

Inventions by members of Corning’s research and engineering staff have been, and continue to be, important to the Company’s growth. Patents have
been granted on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers, including companies in which Corning has equity investments. Many of the earlier patents have now
expired, but Corning continues to seek and obtain patents protecting its newer innovations. In 2009, Corning was granted over 180 patents in the U.S. and over 300 patents in countries outside the U.S.







Each business segment possesses its own patent portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in
protecting Corning’s innovations. Corning has historically enforced, and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights. At the end of 2009, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned over 4,350 unexpired patents in various
countries of which about 2,450 were U.S. patents. Between 2010 and 2012, approximately 11% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations. Worldwide, Corning has over 5,700
patent applications in process, with about 1,760 in process in the U.S. Corning believes that its patent portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting Corning’s innovation, although Corning’s competitors in each
of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well.

The Display Technologies segment has over 310 patents in various countries,
of which over 125 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important issued U.S. patents in this segment include patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use and manufacture of
glass substrates for display applications. There is no group of important Display Technology segment patents set to expire between 2010 and 2012.

The Telecommunications segment has over 1,850 patents in various countries, of which over 900 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important issued U.S. patents in this segment
include: (i) patents relating to optical fiber products including dispersion compensating fiber, low loss optical fiber and high data rate optical fiber and processes and equipment for manufacturing optical fiber, including methods for making
optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber; (ii) patents relating to optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, fiber optic cable designs and methods for installing optical fiber cable; and
(iii) patents relating to optical fiber connectors, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture. A few patents relating to optical fiber manufacturing will expire between 2010 and 2012.

The Environmental Technologies segment has over 380 patents in various countries of which over 200 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to
this business segment. Some of the important issued U.S. patents in this segment include patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products, together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes,
and honeycomb extrusion dies and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products. There is no group of important Environmental Technologies patents set to expire between 2010 and 2012.

The Specialty Materials segment has over 600 patents in various countries of which over 370 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this
business segment. Some of the important issued U.S. patents in this segment include patents relating to ophthalmics, LCD imagemask and semiconductor/ microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics,
protective cover glass, glass polarizers, specialty fiber, and refractories. There is no group of important Specialty Materials patents set to expire between 2010 and 2012.

The Life Sciences segment has over 175 patents in various countries of which over 95 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important issued U.S.
patents in this segment include patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use of scientific laboratory equipment including nucleic acid arrays, multiwell plates, and cell culture products. There is no group of important Life
Sciences patents set to expire between 2010 and 2012.

Products reported in All Other include development projects, new product lines, and
other businesses or investments that do not meet the threshold for separate reporting. Some of the important issued U.S. patents in this segment include patents relating to equipment for label independent drug discovery, advanced flow reactors, and
methods of manufacture, and semiconductor lasers and related packaging.

Many of the Company’s patents are used in operations or are
licensed for use by others, and Corning is licensed to use patents owned by others. Corning has entered into cross licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas or
technologies.

Corning’s principal trademarks include the following: Corning, Celcor, DuraTrap, Eagle2000, EagleXG, Epic, Evolant, HPFS,
Lanscape, Pyrex, ClearCurve, SMF-28e, Gorilla, and Jade.

Protection of the Environment

Corning has a program to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program has
resulted in capital and operating expenditures during the past several years. In order to maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution control in continuing operations were approximately $26 million in 2009 and are
estimated to be $5 million in 2010.

Corning’s 2009 consolidated operating results were charged with approximately $42 million for
depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses associated with pollution control. Corning believes that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.







Employees

At December 31, 2009, Corning had approximately 23,500 full-time employees, including approximately 10,200 employees in the United States. From time to time, Corning also retains consultants,
independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 26% of Corning’s United States employees.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Wendell P. WeeksChairman and
Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983 and was named a vice president and deputy general manager of the
Telecommunications Products division in 1995, vice president and general manager in 1996, senior vice president in 1997, senior vice president of Opto-Electronics in 1998, executive vice president in 1999, president, Corning Optical Communications
in 2001, president and chief operating officer of Corning in 2002, and president and chief executive officer in 2005. Mr. Weeks became chairman and chief executive officer on April 26, 2007. Mr. Weeks is a director of Merck &
Co. Inc. Mr. Weeks has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age 50.

James B. FlawsVice Chairman
and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and served in a variety of controller and business management positions.
Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning in 1993, vice president and controller in 1997 and vice president of finance and treasurer in May 1997, senior vice president and chief financial officer in December 1997, executive vice
president and chief financial officer in 1999 and to his current position in 2002. Mr. Flaws is a director of Dow Corning Corporation. Mr. Flaws has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age 61.

Peter F. VolanakisPresident and Chief Operating Officer

Mr. Volanakis joined Corning in 1982 and subsequently held various marketing, development and commercial positions in several divisions. He was named managing director Corning GmbH in 1992, executive
vice president of CCS Holding, Inc., formerly known as Siecor Corporation, in 1995, senior vice president of Advanced Display Products in 1997, executive vice president of Display Technologies and Life Sciences in 1999, president of Corning
Technologies in 2001, and became chief operating officer in 2005. Mr. Volanakis became president and chief operating officer on April 26, 2007. Mr. Volanakis is a director of Dow Corning Corporation and The Vanguard Group.
Mr. Volanakis has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age 54.

Kirk P. GreggExecutive Vice
President and Chief Administrative Officer

Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as director of Executive Compensation. He was named vice
president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in 1994, senior vice president, Administration in December 1997 and to his current position in 2002. He is responsible for Human Resources, Information Technology, Procurement and
Transportation, Aviation, Community Affairs, Government Affairs, Business Services and Corporate Security. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director, Key Management Programs, and was
responsible for executive compensation and benefits, executive development and recruiting. Age 50.

Joseph A. MillerExecutive
Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Dr. Miller joined Corning in 2001 as senior vice president and chief technology officer.
He was elected to his current position in 2002. Prior to joining Corning, Dr. Miller was with E.I. DuPont de Nemours, Inc., where he served as chief technology officer and senior vice president for research and development since 1994. He began
his career with DuPont in 1966. Dr. Miller is a director of Greatbatch, Inc. and Dow Corning Corporation. Age 68.

Pamela C.
SchneiderSenior Vice President and Operations Chief of Staff

Ms. Schneider joined Corning in 1986 as senior financial
analyst in the Controllers Division. In 1988 she became manager of internal audit. In 1990 she was named controller and in 1991 chief financial officer of Corning Asahi Video Products Company. In January 1993, she was appointed vice president and
chief financial officer for Corning Consumer Products Company, and in 1995 vice president Finance and Administration. In 1997, she was named vice president and in 1999 senior vice president, Human Resources and diversity officer for Corning
Incorporated. Ms. Schneider was elected to her present position in April 2002. Age 55.

Lawrence D. McRaeSenior Vice
President, Strategy and Corporate Development

Mr. McRae joined Corning in 1985 and served in various financial, sales and marketing
positions. He was elected vice president Corporate Development in 2000, senior vice president Corporate Development in 2003 and most recently, senior vice president Strategy and Corporate Development in October 2005. Mr. McRae is on the board of
directors of Dow Corning Corporation, and Samsung Corning Precision Glass Co., Ltd. Age 51.







R. Tony TripenySenior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting
Officer

Mr. Tripeny joined Corning in 1985 as the corporate accounting manager of Corning Cable Systems, and became the Keller
facility’s plant controller in 1989. In 1993, he was appointed equipment division controller of Corning Cable Systems and, in 1996 corporate controller. Mr. Tripeny was appointed to chief financial officer of Corning Cable Systems in July
2000. In 2003, he took on the additional role of group controller, Telecommunications, Corning Incorporated. He was appointed to division vice president, Operations Controller in August 2004, and vice president, Corporate Controller in October 2005.
Mr. Tripeny was elected to his current position in April 2009. Age 50.

Vincent P. HattonSenior Vice President and General
Counsel

Mr. Hatton joined Corning in 1981 as an assistant corporate counsel and became a division counsel in 1984. Mr. Hatton
was named assistant general counsel, Specialty Materials in May 1993, and director of the Legal Department in 1995. Mr. Hatton was elected vice president in 1998 and senior vice president in 2003. Mr. Hatton was elected to his current
position on March 1, 2007. Age 59.

Document Availability

A copy of Corning’s 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Ms. Denise A. Hauselt, Vice President, Secretary
and Assistant General Counsel, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY 14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act
of 1934 and other filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished to the SEC, and can be accessed electronically free of charge, through the Investor Relations category of the Corning
home page on the Internet at www.corning.com. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

