Item 1.Business



General



Corning traces its origins to a glass business established in 1851. The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936. The Company’s name was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989.

Corning Incorporated is a world leader in the manufacture of specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge, Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control, telecommunications and life sciences. Corning operates in five reportable segments: Display Technologies, Telecommunications, Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences. Corning manufactures and processes products at approximately 70 plants in 13 countries.



Display Technologies Segment

Corning’s Display Technologies segment manufactures glass substrates for active matrix liquid crystal displays (LCDs) that are used primarily in notebook computers, flat panel desktop monitors, and LCD televisions. Corning’s facilities in Kentucky, Japan, Taiwan, and China, and those of our equity affiliates in Korea, develop, manufacture and supply high quality glass substrates using a proprietary fusion manufacturing process and technology expertise. Our Display Technologies equity affiliates consist of Samsung Corning Precision Materials Co., Ltd. (Samsung Corning Precision Materials), of which Corning owns 50%, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. owns 43% and three other shareholders own the remaining 7%, and Samsung Corning Advanced Glass, LLC, owned equally by Corning and Samsung Mobile Display Co., Ltd. Samsung Corning Precision Materials is a leading supplier of LCD glass substrates to display manufacturers in Korea. Samsung Corning Advanced Glass, LLC manufactures specialty glass substrates for the rapidly expanding organic light emitting diode (OLED) device market. The business intends to combine Corning’s Lotus™ Glass substrate technology and Samsung Display’s OLED display expertise, to provide outstanding product solutions for current and future OLED technologies. Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ financial statements are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

Corning is a technology leader in this market, introducing large-sized glass substrates used by our customers in the production of larger LCDs for monitors and televisions. We are recognized for providing product innovations that help our customers produce larger, lighter, thinner and higher-resolution displays more affordably. In industry language, glass sizes advance in what are called generations. Glass substrates are currently available from Corning in sizes up to Generation 10 (2,850mm x 3,050mm). Generation 10 glass substrates are produced at an advanced manufacturing facility located at Sakai Display Products’ industrial complex in Sakai City, Japan, which eliminates the need for traditional packaging, shipping, and delivery methods. Large substrates (Generation 5 and higher) allow LCD manufacturers to produce larger and a greater number of panels from each substrate. The larger size leads to economies of scale for LCD manufacturers.



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K1



Back to Contents

LCD glass manufacturing is a highly capital intensive business. Corning has made significant investments to expand its LCD glass facilities in response to customer demand. The environment is very competitive. Important attributes for success include efficient manufacturing, access to capital, technology know-how, and patents.

Patent protection and proprietary trade secrets are important to this segment’s operations. Corning has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Corning licenses certain of its patents to Samsung Corning Precision Materials and other third parties and generates royalty income from these licenses. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to patents and trademarks.

The Display Technologies segment represented 36% of Corning’s sales for 2012.



Telecommunications Segment

The Telecommunications segment produces optical fiber and cable, and hardware and equipment products for the worldwide telecommunications industry. Corning invented the world’s first low-loss optical fiber approximately 40 years ago and now offers a range of optical fiber technology products and enhancements for a variety of applications, including premises, fiber-to-the-home access, metropolitan, long-haul and submarine networks. Corning makes and sells InfiniCor® fibers for local area networks, data centers and central offices; SMF-28e+™single-mode optical fiber that provides additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks; SMF-28® ULL fiber; LEAF® optical fiber for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; ClearCurve® ultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications; ClearCurve® ultra-bendable multimode fiber for data centers and other enterprise networks; ClearCurve® VSDN® ultra-bendable optical fiber designed to support emerging high-speed interconnects between computers and other consumer electronics devices; and Vascade® submarine optical fibers for use in submarine networks. Corning has optical fiber manufacturing facilities in North Carolina, China and India.

A significant portion of Corning’s optical fiber is sold to subsidiaries and affiliates including Corning Cable Systems LLC, Beijing CCS Optical Fiber Cable Co., Ltd., Chengdu CCS Optical Fiber Cable Co., Ltd. and Corning Cable Systems Polska Sp. Z o.o. Optical fiber is cabled by these subsidiaries prior to being sold to end users. Corning’s remaining fiber production is sold directly to end users or third party cablers around the world. Corning’s cabling operations include facilities in North Carolina, Poland, China, Germany and smaller regional locations and equity affiliates.

Corning’s hardware and equipment products include cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware, fiber optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures and pedestals, splice and test equipment and other accessories for optical connectivity. For copper connectivity, Corning’s products include subscriber demarcation, connection and protection devices, xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures. Each of these product lines may be combined in Corning’s fiber-to-the-premises solutions. Corning also provides distributed antenna system solutions for flexible wireless coverage in the rapidly growing wireless market. Corning has manufacturing operations for hardware and equipment products in North Carolina, Arizona, Virginia and Texas, as well as Europe, Mexico, Israel and China. In addition, Corning offers products for the cable television industry, including coaxial connectors and associated tools.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income is not currently material to this segment’s operating results. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are considered important to the segment’s operations. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Telecommunications segment represented 27% of Corning’s sales for 2012.



Environmental Technologies Segment

Corning’s Environmental Technologies segment manufactures ceramic substrates and filter products for emissions control in mobile and stationary applications around the world. In the early 1970’s, Corning developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard for catalytic converters in vehicles worldwide. As global emissions control regulations tighten, Corning has continued to develop more effective and durable ceramic substrate and filter products for gasoline and diesel applications. Corning manufactures substrate and filter products in New York, Virginia, China, Germany and South Africa. Corning sells its ceramic substrate and filter products worldwide to manufacturers of emission control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers. Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of Corning substrates and filters is generally required by the specifications of the automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are also considered important to the segment’s operations. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Environmental Technologies segment represented 12% of Corning’s sales for 2012.



Specialty Materials Segment

The Specialty Materials segment manufactures products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique customer needs. Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets that include display optics and components, semiconductor optics components, aerospace and defense, astronomy, ophthalmic products, telecommunications components and cover glass that is optimized for portable display devices and televisions.

Our cover glass, known as Corning® Gorilla® Glass, is a thin sheet glass designed specifically to function as a cover glass for display devices such as tablets, notebook PCs, televisions and mobile phones. Elegant and lightweight, Corning Gorilla Glass is durable enough to resist many real-world events that commonly cause glass failure, enabling exciting new applications in technology and design. Early in 2012, Corning launched Corning® Gorilla® Glass 2, the next generation in our Corning Gorilla Glass suite of products. Corning Gorilla Glass 2 enables up to a 20% reduction in glass thickness, while maintaining the industry-leading damage resistance, toughness and scratch-resistance. And in January 2013, we introduced Corning® Gorilla® Glass 3 with Native Damage Resistance. This latest version of our damage-resistant cover glass for consumer electronic devices is based on a completely new glass composition, with durability enhancements developed at the atomic structural level of the glass. Corning Gorilla Glass is manufactured in Kentucky, Japan and Taiwan.



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K2



Back to Contents

Semiconductor optics manufactured by Corning includes high-performance optical material products, optical-based metrology instruments, and optical assemblies for applications in the global semiconductor industry. Corning’s semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York.

Other specialty glass products include glass lens and window components and assemblies and are made in New York, New Hampshire, Kentucky and France or sourced from China.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Specialty Materials segment represented approximately 17% of Corning’s sales for 2012.



Life Sciences Segment

As a leading developer, manufacturer and global supplier of scientific laboratory products for more than 90 years, Corning’s Life Sciences segment collaborates with researchers seeking new approaches to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines in the drug discovery process. Using unique expertise in the fields of materials science, surface science, optics, biochemistry and biology, the segment provides innovative solutions that improve productivity and enable breakthrough discoveries.

Life Sciences laboratory products include general labware and equipment as well as media and reagents for cell culture research and scale-up, genomics, drug discovery, microbiology and chemistry. Corning manufactures these products in the United States in Maine, New York, New Jersey, California, Utah, Virginia, Massachusetts and North Carolina, and outside of the U.S. in Mexico, France, Poland, the United Kingdom and China. The products are marketed worldwide, primarily through distributors to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities, and other research facilities.

In addition to being a global leader in consumable glass and plastic laboratory tools for life science research, Corning continues to be an innovative force developing and producing unique technologies such as Corning® Epic® Technology for high throughput screening; Corning® HYPER platform of vessels for increased cell yields; novel surfaces, such as Corning® CellBIND® Surface; Corning® Osteo Assay surface and Corning® Synthemax® II Surface; and Corning® Microcarriers for cell scale-up, therapy and vaccine applications.

In the fourth quarter of 2012, Corning acquired the majority of the Discovery Labware business from Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD). The acquisition of the BD Discovery Labware business expands our market presence in the global laboratory consumables market, especially in the Asian markets of India, Korea, and Japan. Corning’s broad portfolio of laboratory products and services will be enhanced by the addition of the Discovery Labware businesses’ four main product platforms: plastic consumable labware; biologically coated plastic consumable labware; cell culture reagents; and ADME/Tox (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicity) products.

Corning sells life science products under these primary brands: Corning, Costar, PYREX, Axygen, and Gosselin. Through the acquisition of the Discovery Labware business, additional brands have been added to our portfolio such as: Corning® Matrigel, Corning® Gentest, Corning®BioCoat and Falcon®.

Patent protection is important to the segment’s operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes. Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.

The Life Sciences segment represented approximately 8% of Corning’s sales for 2012.



All Other

All Other primarily includes development projects and new product lines, certain corporate investments, Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD business, Corning’s Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates with Saint Gobain Vitrage S.A. of France, which manufacture smooth cooktop glass/ceramic products, and Corsam, an equity affiliate established between Corning and Samsung Corning Precision Materials to provide glass technology research. Development projects and new product lines involve the use of various technologies for new products such as advanced flow reactors, thin-film photovoltaics and adjacency businesses in pursuit of thin, strong glass applications.

The Other segment represented less than 1% of Corning’s sales for 2012.

Additional explanation regarding Corning and its five reportable segments is presented in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Corporate Investments



Corning and The Dow Chemical Company (Dow Chemical) each own half of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), an equity company headquartered in Michigan that manufactures silicone products worldwide. Dow Corning is a leader in silicon-based technology and innovation, offering more than 7,000 products and services. Dow Corning is the majority-owner of Hemlock Semiconductor Group, a market leader in the production of high purity polycrystalline silicon for the semiconductor and solar energy industries. Dow Corning’s sales were $6.1 billion in 2012. Additional discussion about Dow Corning appears in the Legal Proceedings section. Dow Corning’s financial statements are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own half of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC), an equity company in Pennsylvania that manufactures glass products for architectural and industrial uses. PCC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in April 2000. Corning also owns half of Pittsburgh Corning Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation that manufactures glass products for industrial uses primarily in Europe. Additional discussion about PCC and PCE appears in the Legal Proceedings section.

Additional information about corporate investments is presented in Note 7 (Investments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K3



Back to Contents



Competition



Corning competes across all of its product lines with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and some have broader product lines. Corning strives to sustain and improve its market position through technology and product innovation. For the future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, and its commitment to quality. There is no assurance that Corning will be able to maintain or improve its market position or competitive advantage.



Display Technologies Segment

Corning, including Samsung Corning Precision Materials, is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for active matrix LCD displays. The environment for LCD glass substrate products is very competitive and Corning believes it has sustained its competitive advantages by investing in new products, such as Corning Lotus glass, providing a consistent and reliable supply and using its proprietary fusion manufacturing process. This process allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Asahi Glass, Nippon Electric Glass and Avan Strate, Inc. are Corning’s principal competitors in display glass substrates.



Telecommunications Segment

Competition within the telecommunications equipment industry is intense among several significant companies. Corning is a leading competitor in the segment’s principal product lines, which include optical fiber and cable, and hardware and equipment. The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, price pressure and competition for the innovation of new products. These competitive conditions are likely to persist.

Corning believes its large scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property assets yield cost advantages relative to several of its competitors. The primary competing producers of optical fiber and cable products are OFS (a Furukawa Company), Fujikura Ltd., Sumitomo Electric and Prysmian Group.

For hardware and equipment products, significant competitors are 3M Company, TE Connectivity, OFS (a Furukawa Company) and CommScope.



Environmental Technologies Segment

For worldwide automotive ceramic substrate products, Corning has a major market position that has remained relatively stable over the past year. Corning has also established a strong presence in the heavy duty and light duty diesel vehicle market and believes its competitive advantage in automotive ceramic substrate products for catalytic converters and diesel filter products for exhaust systems is based upon global presence, customer service, engineering design services and product innovation. Corning’s Environmental Technologies products face principal competition from NGK, Denso, and Ibiden.



Specialty Materials Segment

Corning is one of very few manufacturers with deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology, and system assembly. Additionally, we are addressing emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of chemically strengthened glass. Corning Gorilla Glass is a thin-sheet glass that is better able to survive events that most commonly cause glass failure. Its advanced composition allows a deeper layer of chemical strengthening than is possible with most other chemically strengthened glasses, making it both durable and damage resistant. Our products and capabilities in this segment position the Company to meet the needs of a broad array of markets including display, semiconductor, aerospace/defense, astronomy, vision care, industrial/commercial, and telecommunications. For this segment, Schott, Shin-Etsu Quartz Products, Asahi Glass, Carl Zeiss, Nikon, Nippon Electric Glass, Transitions Optical, Oerlikon, Hoya and Heraeus are the main competitors.



Life Sciences Segment

Corning is a leading supplier of glass and plastic laboratory products, with a growing plastic products market presence in North America, Europe, and Asia, and a solid laboratory glass products market presence in the Americas. Corning seeks to maintain a competitive advantage by emphasizing product quality, product availability, supply chain efficiency, a wide product line and superior product attributes. For laboratory products, Greiner, Nunc, Kimble-Chase, and Duran are the principal worldwide competitors. Corning also faces increasing competition from two large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products.



Raw Materials



Corning’s production of specialty glasses, ceramics, and related materials requires significant quantities of energy, uninterrupted power sources, certain precious metals, and various batch materials.

Although energy shortages have not been a problem recently, the cost of energy remains volatile. Corning has achieved flexibility through engineering changes to take advantage of low-cost energy sources in most significant processes. Specifically, many of Corning’s principal manufacturing processes can be operated with natural gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.

Availability of resources (ores, minerals, polymers, and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appears to be adequate. Corning’s suppliers, from time to time, may experience capacity limitations in their own operations, or may eliminate certain product lines. Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch materials and precious metals. For many products, Corning has alternate glass compositions that would allow operations to continue without interruption in the event of specific materials shortages.

Certain key materials and proprietary equipment used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. Any future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in product shipments, or reductions in Corning’s gross margins.



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K4



Back to Contents



Patents and Trademarks



Inventions by members of Corning’s research and engineering staff have been, and continue to be, important to the Company’s growth. Patents have been granted on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers, including companies in which Corning has equity investments. Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but Corning continues to seek and obtain patents protecting its innovations. In 2012, Corning was granted over 320 patents in the U.S. and over 630 patents in countries outside the U.S.

Each business segment possesses a patent portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting Corning’s innovations. Corning has historically enforced, and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights. At the end of 2012, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned over 4,800 unexpired patents in various countries of which about 2,800 were U.S. patents. Between 2013 and 2015, approximately 9% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations. Worldwide, Corning has over 7,900 patent applications in process, with about 1,900 in process in the U.S. Corning believes that its patent portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting Corning’s innovation, although Corning’s competitors in each of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well.

The Display Technologies segment has over 530 patents in various countries, of which over 230 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications. There is no group of important Display Technology segment patents set to expire between 2013 and 2015.

The Telecommunications segment has over 1,950 patents in various countries, of which over 1,050 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include: (i) patents relating to optical fiber products including dispersion compensating fiber, low loss optical fiber and high data rate optical fiber and processes and equipment for manufacturing optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber; (ii) patents relating to optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, fiber optic cable designs and methods for installing optical fiber cable; and (iii) patents relating to optical fiber connectors, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture. There is no group of important Telecommunications segment patents set to expire between 2013 and 2015.

The Environmental Technologies segment has over 400 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products, together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products. There is no group of important Environmental Technologies patents set to expire between 2013 and 2015.

The Specialty Materials segment has about 450 patents in various countries, of which over 300 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to protective cover glass, ophthalmics glasses and polarizing dies, and semiconductor/microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics, glass polarizers, specialty fiber, and refractories. There is no group of important Specialty Materials patents set to expire between 2013 and 2015.

The Life Sciences segment has over 300 patents in various countries, of which over 150 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use of scientific laboratory equipment including nucleic acid arrays, multiwell plates, and cell culture products as well as equipment and processes for label independent drug discovery. There is no group of important Life Sciences patents set to expire between 2013 and 2015.

Products reported in All Other include development projects, new product lines, and other businesses or investments that do not meet the threshold for separate reporting.

Many of the Company’s patents are used in operations or are licensed for use by others, and Corning is licensed to use patents owned by others. Corning has entered into cross licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas or technologies.

Corning’s principal trademarks include the following: Axygen, Corning, Celcor, ClearCurve, DuraTrap, Eagle XG, Epic, Evolant, Gorilla, HPFS, Lanscape, Pretium, Pyrex, Steuben, Falcon, and SMF-28e.



Protection of the Environment



Corning has a program to ensure that its facilities are in compliance with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program has resulted in capital and operating expenditures during the past several years. In order to maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution control in continuing operations were approximately $16 million in 2012 and are estimated to be $5 million in 2013.

Corning’s 2012 consolidated operating results were charged with approximately $40 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses associated with pollution control. Corning believes that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.



Employees



At December 31, 2012, Corning had approximately 28,700 full-time employees, including approximately 11,700 employees in the United States. From time to time, Corning also retains consultants, independent contractors, temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 23.4% of Corning’s United States employees.



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K5



Back to Contents



Executive Officers of the Registrant



Wendell P. WeeksChairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983 and was named a vice president and deputy general manager of the Telecommunications Products division in 1995, vice president and general manager in 1996, senior vice president in 1997, senior vice president of Opto-Electronics in 1998, executive vice president in 1999, president, Corning Optical Communications in 2001, president and chief operating officer of Corning in 2002, and president and chief executive officer in 2005. Mr. Weeks became chairman and chief executive officer on April 26, 2007, and president on December 31, 2010. Mr. Weeks is a director of Merck & Co. Inc. Mr. Weeks has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age 53.

James B. FlawsVice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and served in a variety of controller and business management positions. Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning in 1993, vice president and controller in 1997, vice president of finance and treasurer in May 1997, senior vice president and chief financial officer in December 1997, executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1999 and to his current position in 2002. Mr. Flaws is a director of Dow Corning Corporation. Mr. Flaws has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age 64.

Kirk P. GreggExecutive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as director of Executive Compensation. He was named vice president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in 1994, senior vice president, Administration in December 1997 and to his current position in 2002. He is responsible for Human Resources, Information Technology, Procurement and Transportation, Aviation, Community Affairs, Government Affairs, Business Services and Corporate Security. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director, Key Management Programs, and was responsible for executive compensation and benefits, executive development and recruiting. Age 53.

Lawrence D. McRaeExecutive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Development

Mr. McRae joined Corning in 1985 and served in various financial, sales and marketing positions. He was elected vice president Corporate Development in 2000, senior vice president Corporate Development in 2003, and senior vice president Strategy and Corporate Development in October 2005. He was elected to his present position in October 2010. Mr. McRae is on the board of directors of Dow Corning Corporation, and Samsung Corning Precision Materials Co., Ltd. Age 54.

David L. MorseExecutive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Dr. Morse joined Corning in 1976 in glass research, and worked as a composition scientist in developing and patenting several major products. He served in a variety of product and materials research and technology director roles, and was appointed division vice president and technology director for photonic technology groups beginning in March 1999, and became director of corporate research, science and technology in December 2001. He was elected vice president in January 2003, becoming senior vice president and director of corporate research in 2006. Dr. Morse was elected to his current position in May 2012. He is on the board of Dow Corning Corporation and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Chemistry Board. Age 60.

Jeffrey EvensonSenior Vice President and Operations Chief of Staff

Dr. Evenson joined Corning in June 2011 and was elected to his current position at that time. He serves on the Management Committee and oversees a variety of strategic programs and growth initiatives. Prior to joining Corning, Dr. Evenson was a senior vice president with Sanford C. Bernstein, where he served as a senior analyst since 2004. Before that, Dr. Evenson was a partner at McKinsey & Company, where he led technology and market assessment for early-stage technologies. Age 47.

R. Tony TripenySenior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Tripeny joined Corning in 1985 as the corporate accounting manager of Corning Cable Systems, and became the Keller facility’s plant controller in 1989. In 1993, he was appointed equipment division controller of Corning Cable Systems and, in 1996 corporate controller. Mr. Tripeny was appointed chief financial officer of Corning Cable Systems in July 2000. In 2003, he took on the additional role of Telecommunications group controller. He was appointed division vice president, operations controller in August 2004, and vice president, corporate controller in October 2005. Mr. Tripeny was elected to his current position in April 2009. He is on the board of directors of Hardinge Inc. Age 53.

Vincent P. HattonSenior Vice President and General Counsel

Mr. Hatton joined Corning in 1981 as an assistant corporate counsel and became a division counsel in 1984. Mr. Hatton was named assistant general counsel, Specialty Materials in May 1993, and director of the Legal Department in 1995. Mr. Hatton was elected vice president in 1998 and senior vice president in 2003. Mr. Hatton was elected to his current position on March 1, 2007. Age 62.



Document Availability



A copy of Corning’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Ms. Denise A. Hauselt, Vice President, Secretary and Assistant General Counsel, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY 14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and other filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished to the SEC, and can be accessed electronically free of charge, through the Investor Relations line on Corning’s web site atwww.corning.com. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Other



Additional information in response to Item 1 is found in Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 6 (Selected Financial Data).



CORNING INCORPORATED–2012 Form 10-K6



Back to Contents



