ITEM 1Business



General



Corning traces its origins to a glass business
established in 1851. The present corporation was incorporated in the State of New York in December 1936. The Company’s name
was changed from Corning Glass Works to Corning Incorporated on April 28, 1989.



Corning Incorporated is a world leader in
the manufacture of specialty glass and ceramics. Drawing on more than 160 years of materials science and process engineering knowledge,
Corning creates and makes keystone components that enable high-technology systems for consumer electronics, mobile emissions control,
telecommunications and life sciences. Corning operates in five reportable segments: Display Technologies, Optical Communications,
Environmental Technologies, Specialty Materials and Life Sciences. Corning manufactures and processes products at approximately
70 plants in 15 countries.



Display Technologies Segment



®

®

®

®



Our Display Technologies segment has two
equity affiliates: 1) Samsung Corning Precision Materials Co., Ltd. (Samsung Corning Precision Materials), of which Corning owns
57% and Samsung Display Co., Ltd. (Samsung Display) owns 43%; and 2) Samsung Corning Advanced Glass, LLC, owned equally by Corning
and Samsung Mobile Display Co., Ltd. Samsung Corning Precision Materials is a leading supplier of LCD glass substrates to display
manufacturers in Korea. Samsung Corning Advanced Glass, LLC manufactures specialty glass substrates for the rapidly expanding organic
light emitting diode (OLED) device market. The business combines Corning’s Lotus™ Glass substrate technology and Samsung
Display’s OLED display expertise, to provide outstanding product solutions for current and future OLED technologies. Samsung
Corning Precision Materials’ financial statements are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K1



Back to Contents

To extend Corning’s leadership in specialty
glass and drive earnings growth, Corning announced in October 2013 that it is entering into a series of strategic and financial
agreements with Samsung Display intended to strengthen product and technology collaborations between the two companies. Corning
and Samsung Display completed this transaction on January 15, 2014.



The following is a summary of the series
of transactions, and the impacts to the Display Technologies segment:



•Corning obtained full ownership of Samsung Corning Precision
Materials. This organization and its assets will be integrated into Corning’s Display Technologies segment.



•Corning and Samsung Display extended their long-term LCD
display glass supply agreement through 2023.



•The two companies’ strengthened their
technology collaborations on strategic product development and commercialization initiatives.



In connection with these agreements, in
the fourth quarter of 2013, Corning acquired the minority interests of three shareholders in Samsung Corning Precision
Materials for $506 million, which included payment for the transfer of non-operating assets and the pro-rata portion of cash
on Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ balance sheet at September 30, 2013. The resulting transfer of shares to
Corning increased Corning’s ownership percentage of Samsung Corning Precision Materials from 50% to 57%. Because this
transaction did not result in a change in control based on the governing articles of this entity, Corning did not consolidate
this entity as of December 31, 2013. The remaining transactions were completed on January 15, 2014, which increased
Corning’s ownership to 100% and will result in consolidation of the entity beginning in the first quarter of 2014.
Refer to Note 21 (Subsequent Events) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.



LCD glass manufacturing is a highly capital
intensive business. Important attributes for success include efficient manufacturing, access to capital, technology know-how, and
patents. As a result of these transactions, Corning expects to realize increased flexibility in glass-melting capabilities, which
will allow the company to re-evaluate the need for major capital expenditures for additional fusion glass manufacturing assets.



Corning has LCD glass manufacturing operations
in the United States, Japan, Taiwan and China. Samsung Corning Precision Materials has LCD glass manufacturing facilities in Korea.
Following completion of the transaction, Corning will be able to service all specialty glass customers in all regions directly,
utilizing its manufacturing facilities throughout Asia.



Patent protection and proprietary trade secrets
are important to this segment’s operations. Corning has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies
and manufacturing processes. Corning licenses certain of its patents to Samsung Corning Precision Materials and other third parties
and generates royalty income from these licenses. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks”
for information relating to patents and trademarks.



The Display Technologies segment represented
32% of Corning’s sales in 2013.



Optical Communications Segment



Corning invented the world’s first
low-loss optical fiber in 1970. Since that milestone, we have continued to pioneer optical fiber, cable and connectivity solutions.
As global bandwidth demand driven by video usage grows exponentially, networks continue to migrate from copper to optical-based
systems that can deliver the required cost-effective bandwidth-carrying capacity. Our unrivaled experience puts us in a unique
position to design and deliver optical solutions that reach every edge of the communications network.



Because our Optical
Communications segment has recently evolved from being a manufacturer of optical fiber and cable, and hardware and equipment
to being a comprehensive provider of industry-leading optical solutions across the broader communications industry, we are
updating the name of the segment to Corning Optical Communications. This segment will be classified into two main product
groupings – carrier network and enterprise network. The carrier network product group consists primarily of products
and solutions for optical-based communications infrastructure for services such as video, data and voice communications.
The enterprise network product group consists primarily of optical-based communication networks of products and solutions
sold to businesses, governments and individuals for their own use.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K2



Back to Contents

Our carrier network product portfolio begins
with optical fiber products, including Vascade®submarine optical fibers for use in submarine networks; LEAF®optical fiber
for long-haul, regional and metropolitan networks; SMF-28®ULL fiber for more scalable long-haul and regional networks; SMF-28e+™
single-mode optical fiber that provides additional transmission wavelengths in metropolitan and access networks; and ClearCurve®ultra-bendable single-mode fiber for use in multiple-dwelling units and fiber-to-the-home applications. In 2013, Corning announced
its latest single-mode optical fiber innovation, SMF-28®Ultra fiber. Designed for high performance across the range of long-haul,
metro, access, and fiber-to-the-home network applications, it is the first to combine the benefits of industry-leading attenuation and improved macrobend
performance in one fiber. Our optical fiber is sold directly to end users or third-party cablers around the world. Corning’s
remaining fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an integrated optical
solution. Corning’s cable products support various outdoor, indoor/outdoor and indoor applications and include a broad range
of loose tube, ribbon and drop cable designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor use.



In addition to optical fiber and cable,
our carrier network product portfolio also includes hardware and equipment products, including cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware,
fiber optic connectors, optical components and couplers, closures, network interface devices, and other accessories. These products
may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical connectivity solutions designed for various carrier network
applications. Examples of these solutions include our FlexNAPTMterminal distribution system, which provides pre-connectorized
distribution and drop cable assemblies for cost-effectively deploying Fiber-to-the-Home (FTTH) networks; and the recently launched
CentrixTMplatform, which provides a high-density fiber management system with industry-leading density and innovative
jumper routing that can be deployed in a wide variety of carrier switching centers.



To keep pace with surging demand for mobile
bandwidth, the Corning Optical Network Evolution (ONE) wireless platform was launched in 2013. In addition to our full complement
of operator-grade distributed antenna systems (DAS), ONE™ is the first all-optical converged cellular and Wi-Fi®solution
built on an all-optical backbone with modular service support. The ONE wireless platform provides virtually unlimited bandwidth,
and meets all of the wireless service needs of large-scale enterprises at a lower cost than the typical DAS solution.



In addition to our optical-based portfolio,
Corning’s carrier network portfolio also contains select copper-based products including subscriber demarcation, connection
and protection devices, xDSL (different variations of digital subscriber lines) passive solutions and outside plant enclosures.
In addition, Corning offers coaxial RF interconnects for the cable television industry as well as for microwave applications for
GPS, radars, satellites, manned and unmanned military vehicles, and wireless and telecommunications systems.



Our enterprise network product portfolio
also includes optical fiber products, including ClearCurve®ultra-bendable multimode fiber for data centers and other enterprise
network applications; InfiniCor®fibers for local area networks; and more recently ClearCurve®VSDN®ultra-bendable
optical fiber designed to support emerging high-speed interconnects between computers and other consumer electronics devices. The
remainder of Corning’s fiber production is cabled internally and sold to end users as either bulk cable or as part of an
integrated optical solution. Corning’s cable products include a broad range of tight-buffered, loose tube and ribbon cable
designs with flame-retardant versions available for indoor and indoor/outdoor applications that meet local building code requirements.



Corning’s hardware and equipment products
for enterprise network applications include cable assemblies, fiber optic hardware, fiber optic connectors, optical components
and couplers, closures and other accessories. These products may be sold as individual components or as part of integrated optical
connectivity solutions designed for various network applications. Examples of enterprise network solutions include the Pretium
EDGE®platform, which provides high-density pre-connectorized solutions for data center applications, and continues to evolve
with recent updates for upgrading to 40/100G applications and port tap modules for network monitoring; the previously mentioned
ONE Wireless platform, which spans both carrier and enterprise network applications; and our recently introduced optical connectivity
solutions to support customer initiatives.



The Optical Communications segment also launched
Thunderbolt™ Optical Cables in 2013, the first all-optical fiber cables designed for consumer applications. These cables
allow users to effortlessly manage the demands of today’s high-bandwidth applications at up to 20 Gb/sec over longer distances.
The electrically isolated, noise-reducing cables are up to 50 percent thinner and 80 percent lighter than comparable copper cables
with substantially increased strength and flexibility.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K3



Back to Contents

Corning operates manufacturing facilities
worldwide. Our optical fiber manufacturing facilities are located in North Carolina, China and India. Cabling operations include
facilities in North Carolina, Germany, Poland, China and smaller regional locations and equity affiliates. Our manufacturing operations
for hardware and equipment products are located in North Carolina, Texas, Arizona, Mexico, Brazil, Denmark, Germany, Poland, Israel,
Australia and China.



Patent protection is important to the segment’s
operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.
The segment licenses certain of its patents to third parties and generates revenue from these licenses, although the royalty income
is not currently material to this segment’s operating results. Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others,
which are considered important to the segment’s operations. Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks”
for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Optical Communications segment represented
30% of Corning’s sales for 2013.



Environmental Technologies
Segment



Corning’s Environmental Technologies
segment manufactures ceramic substrates and filter products for emissions control in mobile and stationary applications around
the world. In the early 1970s, Corning developed an economical, high-performance cellular ceramic substrate that is now the standard
for catalytic converters in vehicles worldwide. As global emissions control regulations tighten, Corning has continued to develop
more effective and durable ceramic substrate and filter products for gasoline and diesel applications. Corning manufactures substrate
and filter products in New York, Virginia, China, Germany and South Africa. Corning sells its ceramic substrate and filter
products worldwide to catalyzers and manufacturers of emission control systems who then sell to automotive and diesel vehicle or
engine manufacturers. Although most sales are made to the emission control systems manufacturers, the use of Corning substrates
and filters is generally required by the specifications of the automotive and diesel vehicle or engine manufacturers.



Patent protection is important to the segment’s
operations. The segment has an extensive portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.
Corning is licensed to use certain patents owned by others, which are also considered important to the segment’s operations.
Refer to the material under the heading “Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents
and trademarks.



The Environmental Technologies segment represented
12% of Corning’s sales for 2013.



Specialty Materials Segment



The Specialty Materials segment manufactures
products that provide more than 150 material formulations for glass, glass ceramics and fluoride crystals to meet demand for unique
customer needs. Consequently, this segment operates in a wide variety of commercial and industrial markets that include display
optics and components, semiconductor optics components, aerospace and defense, astronomy, ophthalmic products, telecommunications
components and cover glass that is optimized for portable display devices and televisions.



Our cover glass, known as Corning®Gorilla®Glass, is a thin sheet glass designed specifically to function as a cover glass for display devices such as tablets, notebook PCs,
televisions and mobile phones. Elegant and lightweight, Corning Gorilla Glass is durable enough to resist many real-world events that commonly cause glass failure, enabling exciting new applications in technology and design. Early in 2012,
Corning launched Corning®Gorilla®Glass 2, the next generation in our Corning Gorilla Glass suite of products. Corning
Gorilla Glass 2 enables up to a 20% reduction in glass thickness, while maintaining the industry-leading damage resistance, toughness
and scratch-resistance. And in 2013, we introduced Corning®Gorilla®Glass 3 with Native Damage Resistance, our latest
version of our damage-resistant cover glass for consumer electronic devices, and Corning®Gorilla®Glass NBT™, designed
to help protect touch notebook displays from scratches and other forms of damage that come from everyday handling and use. Corning
Gorilla Glass is manufactured in Kentucky, Japan and Taiwan.



Semiconductor optics manufactured by Corning
includes high-performance optical material products, optical-based metrology instruments, and optical assemblies for applications
in the global semiconductor industry. Corning’s semiconductor optics products are manufactured in New York.



Other specialty glass products include glass
lens and window components and assemblies and are made in New York, New Hampshire, Kentucky and France or sourced from China.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K4



Back to Contents

Patent protection is important to the segment’s
operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.
Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading
“Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Specialty Materials segment represented
approximately 15% of Corning’s sales for 2013.



Life Sciences Segment



As a leading developer, manufacturer and
global supplier of scientific laboratory products for more than 95 years, Corning’s Life Sciences segment collaborates with
researchers seeking new approaches to increase efficiencies, reduce costs and compress timelines in the drug discovery process.
Using unique expertise in the fields of materials science, surface science, optics, biochemistry and biology, the segment provides
innovative solutions that improve productivity and enable breakthrough discoveries.



Life Sciences laboratory products include
general labware and equipment, as well as specialty surfaces, media and reagents, that are used for cell culture research, bioprocessing,
genomics, drug discovery, microbiology and chemistry. Corning sells life science products under these primary brands: Corning,
Falcon, PYREX, Axygen, and Gosselin. The products are marketed worldwide, primarily through distributors to pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies, academic institutions, hospitals, government entities, and other research facilities. Corning manufactures
these products in the United States in Maine, New York, New Jersey, California, Utah, Virginia, Massachusetts and North Carolina,
and outside of the U.S. in Mexico, France, Poland, and China.



In addition to being a global leader in consumable
glass and plastic laboratory tools for life science research, Corning continues to develop and produce unique technologies aimed
at simplifying customer lab processes, or “workflows”, through three key categories:



•Vessels – Corning®HYPER platform of vessels
for increased cell yields; Corning®Microcarriers for cell scale-up, therapy and vaccine applications;



•Surfaces
                                                                                                                   – Corning®CellBIND®Surface;
                                                                                                                   Corning®Matrigel®;
                                                                                                                   Corning®BioCoatTM;
                                                                                                                   Corning Synthemax®II Surface;



•Media – Corning®stemgro®



In addition, Corning continues to
advance its Corning®Epic®Technology for high-throughput screening with the
Corning®Epic®BT, bench top instrument.



Patent protection is important to the segment’s
operations. The segment has a growing portfolio of patents relating to its products, technologies and manufacturing processes.
Brand recognition and loyalty, through well-known trademarks, are important to the segment. Refer to the material under the heading
“Patents and Trademarks” for information relating to the Company’s patents and trademarks.



The Life Sciences segment represented approximately
11% of Corning’s sales for 2013.



All Other



All Other primarily includes development
projects and new product lines, certain corporate investments, Samsung Corning Precision Materials’ non-LCD business, Corning’s
Eurokera and Keraglass equity affiliates with Saint Gobain Vitrage S.A. of France, which manufacture smooth cooktop glass/ceramic
products, and Corsam, an equity affiliate established between Corning and Samsung Corning Precision Materials to provide glass
technology research. Development projects and new product lines involve the use of various technologies for new products such as
advanced flow reactors, thin-film photovoltaics and adjacency businesses in pursuit of thin, strong glass applications.



The Other segment represented less than 1%
of Corning’s sales for 2013.



Additional explanation regarding Corning
and its five reportable segments is presented in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K5



Back to Contents

Corporate Investments



Corning and The Dow Chemical Company (Dow
Chemical) each own half of Dow Corning Corporation (Dow Corning), an equity company headquartered in Michigan that manufactures
silicone products worldwide. Dow Corning is a leader in silicon-based technology and innovation, offering more than 7,000 products
and services. Dow Corning is the majority-owner of Hemlock Semiconductor Group (Hemlock), a market leader in the production of
high purity polycrystalline silicon for the semiconductor and solar energy industries. Dow Corning’s sales were $5.7 billion
in 2013. Additional discussion about Dow Corning appears in the Legal Proceedings section. Dow Corning’s financial statements
are attached in Item 15, Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.



Corning and PPG Industries, Inc. each own
half of Pittsburgh Corning Corporation (PCC), an equity company in Pennsylvania that manufactures glass products for architectural
and industrial uses. PCC filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization in April 2000. Corning also owns half of Pittsburgh Corning
Europe N.V. (PCE), a Belgian corporation that manufactures glass products for industrial uses primarily in Europe. Additional discussion
about PCC and PCE appears in the Legal Proceedings section.



Additional information about corporate investments
is presented in Note 7 (Investments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Competition



Corning competes across all of its product
lines with many large and varied manufacturers, both domestic and foreign. Some of these competitors are larger than Corning, and
some have broader product lines. Corning strives to sustain and improve its market position through technology and product innovation.
For the future, Corning believes its competitive advantage lies in its commitment to research and development, and its commitment
to quality. There is no assurance that Corning will be able to maintain or improve its market position or competitive advantage.



Display Technologies Segment



We believe Corning, including Samsung Corning
Precision Materials, is the largest worldwide producer of glass substrates for active matrix LCD displays. The environment for
LCD glass substrate products is very competitive and Corning believes it has sustained its competitive advantages by investing
in new products, providing a consistent and reliable supply, and using its proprietary fusion manufacturing process. This process
allows us to deliver glass that is larger, thinner and lighter, with exceptional surface quality and without heavy metals. Asahi
Glass, Nippon Electric Glass and Avan Strate, Inc. are Corning’s principal competitors in display glass substrates.



Optical Communications Segment



Competition within the communications equipment
industry is intense among several significant companies. Corning is a leading competitor in the segment’s principal product
groups, which include carrier network and enterprise network. The competitive landscape includes industry consolidation, price
pressure and competition for the innovation of new products. These competitive conditions are likely to persist. Corning believes
its large scale manufacturing experience, fiber process, technology leadership and intellectual property yield cost advantages
relative to several of its competitors.



The primary competing producers of carrier
network products are TE Connectivity, Prysmian Group, OFS (a Furukawa Company), Fujikura Ltd., Sumitomo Electric, YOFC, Futong
Group and 3M Company.



For enterprise network products, significant
competitors are CommScope, TE Connectivity, Panduit Corporation and a number of other smaller competitors.



Environmental Technologies Segment



For worldwide automotive ceramic substrate
products, Corning has a major market position that has remained relatively stable over the past year. Corning has also established
a strong presence in the heavy duty and light duty diesel vehicle market and believes its competitive advantage in automotive ceramic
substrate products for catalytic converters and diesel filter products for exhaust systems is based upon global presence, customer
service, engineering design services and product innovation. Corning’s Environmental Technologies products face principal
competition from NGK, Denso, and Ibiden.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K6



Back to Contents

Specialty Materials Segment



Corning is one of very few manufacturers
with deep capabilities in materials science, optical design, shaping, coating, finishing, metrology, and system assembly. Additionally,
we are addressing emerging needs of the consumer electronics industry with the development of chemically strengthened glass. Corning
Gorilla Glass is a thin-sheet glass that is better able to survive events that most commonly cause glass failure. Its advanced
composition allows a deeper layer of chemical strengthening than is possible with most other chemically strengthened glasses, making
it both durable and damage resistant. Our products and capabilities in this segment position the Company to meet the needs of a
broad array of markets including display, semiconductor, aerospace/defense, astronomy, vision care, industrial/commercial, and
telecommunications. For this segment, Schott, Shin-Etsu Quartz Products, Asahi Glass, Carl Zeiss, Nikon, Nippon Electric Glass,
Transitions Optical, Oerlikon, Hoya and Heraeus are the main competitors.



Life Sciences Segment



Corning seeks to maintain a competitive advantage
by emphasizing product quality, product availability, supply chain efficiency, a wide product line and superior product attributes.
Our principle worldwide competitors include Greiner, Nunc, Kimble-Chase, Gibco and Duran. Corning also faces increasing competition
from two large distributors that have pursued backward integration or introduced private label products.



Raw Materials



Corning’s production of specialty glasses,
ceramics, and related materials requires significant quantities of energy, uninterrupted power sources, certain precious metals,
and various batch materials.



Although energy shortages have not been a
problem recently, the cost of energy remains volatile. Corning has achieved flexibility through engineering changes to take advantage
of low-cost energy sources in most significant processes. Specifically, many of Corning’s principal manufacturing processes
can be operated with natural gas, propane, oil or electricity, or a combination of these energy sources.



Availability of resources (ores,
minerals, polymers, helium and processed chemicals) required in manufacturing operations, appears to be adequate.
Corning’s suppliers, from time to time, may experience capacity limitations in their own operations, or may eliminate
certain product lines. Corning believes it has adequate programs to ensure a reliable supply of batch materials and precious
metals. For many products, Corning has alternate glass compositions that would allow operations to continue without
interruption in the event of specific materials shortages.



Certain key materials and proprietary equipment
used in the manufacturing of products are currently sole-sourced or available only from a limited number of suppliers. Any future
difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of components could result in lost sales due to delays or reductions in
product shipments, or reductions in Corning’s gross margins.



Patents and Trademarks



Inventions by members of Corning’s
research and engineering staff have been, and continue to be, important to the Company’s growth. Patents have been granted
on many of these inventions in the United States and other countries. Some of these patents have been licensed to other manufacturers,
including companies in which Corning has equity investments. Many of our earlier patents have now expired, but Corning continues
to seek and obtain patents protecting its innovations. In 2013, Corning was granted over 350 patents in the U.S. and over 700 patents
in countries outside the U.S.



Each business segment possesses a patent
portfolio that provides certain competitive advantages in protecting Corning’s innovations. Corning has historically enforced,
and will continue to enforce, its intellectual property rights. At the end of 2013, Corning and its wholly-owned subsidiaries owned
over 6,900 unexpired patents in various countries of which about 3,100 were U.S. patents. Between 2014 and 2015, approximately
4% of these patents will expire, while at the same time Corning intends to seek patents protecting its newer innovations. Worldwide,
Corning has over 8,000 patent applications in process, with about 2,000 in process in the U.S. Corning believes that its patent
portfolio will continue to provide a competitive advantage in protecting Corning’s innovation, although Corning’s competitors
in each of its businesses are actively seeking patent protection as well.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K7



Back to Contents

The Display Technologies segment has over
900 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment.
Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to glass compositions and methods for the use
and manufacture of glass substrates for display applications. There is no group of important Display Technologies segment patents
set to expire between 2014 and 2016.



The Optical Communications segment has over
2,400 patents in various countries, of which over 1,100 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business
segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include: (i) patents relating to optical fiber products including
low loss optical fiber, high data rate optical fiber, and dispersion compensating fiber, and processes and equipment for manufacturing
optical fiber, including methods for making optical fiber preforms and methods for drawing, cooling and winding optical fiber;
(ii) patents relating to optical fiber ribbons and methods for making such ribbon, fiber optic cable designs and methods for installing
optical fiber cable; (iii) patents relating to optical fiber connectors, termination and storage and associated methods of manufacture;
and (iv) patents related to distributed communication systems. There is no group of important Optical Communications segment patents
set to expire between 2014 and 2016.



The Environmental Technologies segment has
over 500 patents in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business
segment. Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to cellular ceramic honeycomb products,
together with ceramic batch and binder system compositions, honeycomb extrusion and firing processes, and honeycomb extrusion dies
and equipment for the high-volume, low-cost manufacture of such products. There is no group of important Environmental Technologies
segment patents set to expire between 2014 and 2016.



The Specialty Materials segment has about
600 patents in various countries, of which over 350 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment.
Some of the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to protective cover glass, ophthalmic glasses
and polarizing dies, and semiconductor/microlithography optics and blanks, metrology instrumentation and laser/precision optics,
glass polarizers, specialty fiber, and refractories. There is no group of important Specialty Materials segment patents set to
expire between 2014 and 2016.



The Life Sciences segment has over 800 patents
in various countries, of which over 250 are U.S. patents. No one patent is considered material to this business segment. Some of
the important U.S.-issued patents in this segment include patents relating to methods and apparatus for the manufacture and use
of scientific laboratory equipment including multiwell plates and cell culture products, as well as equipment and processes for
label independent drug discovery. There is no group of important Life Sciences segment patents set to expire between 2014 and 2016.



Products reported in All Other include development
projects, new product lines, and other businesses or investments that do not meet the threshold for separate reporting.



Many of the Company’s patents are used
in operations or are licensed for use by others, and Corning is licensed to use patents owned by others. Corning has entered into
cross licensing arrangements with some major competitors, but the scope of such licenses has been limited to specific product areas
or technologies.



Corning’s principal trademarks include
the following: Axygen, Corning, Celcor, ClearCurve, DuraTrap, Eagle XG, Epic, Evolant, Gosselin, Gorilla, HPFS, Lanscape, Pretium,
Pyrex, Steuben, Falcon, SMF-28e, and Willow.



Protection of the Environment



Corning has a program to ensure that its
facilities are in compliance with state, federal and foreign pollution-control regulations. This program has resulted in capital
and operating expenditures each year. In order to maintain compliance with such regulations, capital expenditures for pollution
control in continuing operations were approximately $5 million in 2013 and are estimated to be $6 million in 2014.



Corning’s 2013 consolidated operating
results were charged with approximately $39 million for depreciation, maintenance, waste disposal and other operating expenses
associated with pollution control. Corning believes that its compliance program will not place it at a competitive disadvantage.



Employees



At December 31, 2013, Corning had approximately
30,400 full-time employees, including approximately 11,400 employees in the United States. From time to time, Corning also retains
consultants, independent contractors, temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately
23.8% of Corning’s United States employees.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K8



Back to Contents

Executive Officers of the Registrant



Wendell P. WeeksChairman,
Chief Executive Officer and President

Mr. Weeks joined Corning in 1983. He
was named vice president and general manager of the Optical Fiber business in 1996, senior vice president in 1997, senior
vice president of Opto-Electronics in 1998, executive vice president in 1999, and president, Corning Optical Communications
in 2001. Mr. Weeks was named president and chief operating officer of Corning in 2002, president and chief executive officer
in 2005 and chairman and chief executive officer on April 26, 2007. He added the title of president in December 2010. Mr.
Weeks is a director of Merck & Co. Inc. Mr. Weeks has been a member of Corning’s Board of Directors since 2000. Age
54.



James B. FlawsVice Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer

Mr. Flaws joined Corning in 1973 and
served in a variety of controller and business management positions. Mr. Flaws was elected assistant treasurer of Corning in
1993, vice president and controller in 1997, vice president of finance and treasurer in May 1997, senior vice president and
chief financial officer in December 1997, executive vice president and chief financial officer in 1999 and to his current
position in 2002. Mr. Flaws is a director of Dow Corning Corporation. Mr. Flaws has been a member of Corning’s Board of
Directors since 2000. Age 65.



Kirk P. GreggExecutive Vice
President and Chief Administrative Officer

Mr. Gregg joined Corning in 1993 as
director of Executive Compensation. He was named vice president of Executive Resources and Employee Benefits in 1994, senior
vice president, Administration in December 1997 and to his current position in 2002. He is responsible for Human Resources,
Information Technology, Procurement and Transportation, Aviation, Community Affairs, Government Affairs, Business Services
and Corporate Security. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Gregg was with General Dynamics Corporation as corporate director, Key
Management Programs, and was responsible for executive compensation and benefits, executive development and recruiting. Age
54.



Lawrence D. McRaeExecutive Vice
President, Strategy and Corporate Development

Mr. McRae joined Corning in 1985 and served
in various financial, sales and marketing positions. He was elected vice president Corporate Development in 2000, senior vice president
Corporate Development in 2003, and senior vice president Strategy and Corporate Development in October 2005. He was elected to
his present position in October 2010. Mr. McRae is on the board of directors of Dow Corning Corporation, and Samsung Corning Precision
Materials Co., Ltd. Age 55.



David L. MorseExecutive Vice
President and Chief Technology Officer

Dr. Morse joined Corning in 1976 in
glass research, and worked as a composition scientist in developing and patenting several major products. He served in a
variety of product and materials research and technology director roles, and was appointed division vice president and
technology director for photonic technology groups beginning in March 1999, and became director of corporate research,
science and technology in December 2001. He was elected vice president in January 2003, becoming senior vice president and
director of corporate research in 2006. Dr. Morse was elected to his current position in May 2012. He is on the board of Dow
Corning Corporation and a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the National Chemistry Board. Age 61.



Jeffrey W. EvensonSenior Vice
President and Operations Chief of Staff

Dr. Evenson joined Corning in June 2011
and was elected to his current position at that time. He serves on the Management Committee and oversees a variety of
strategic programs and growth initiatives. Prior to joining Corning, Dr. Evenson was a senior vice president with Sanford C.
Bernstein, where he served as a senior analyst since 2004. Before that, Dr. Evenson was a partner at McKinsey & Company,
where he led technology and market assessment for early-stage technologies. Age 48.



R. Tony TripenySenior Vice President,
Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Mr. Tripeny joined Corning in 1985 as
the corporate accounting manager of Corning Cable Systems, and became the Keller facility’s plant controller in 1989.
In 1993, he was appointed equipment division controller of Corning Cable Systems and, in 1996 corporate controller.
Mr. Tripeny was appointed chief financial officer of Corning Cable Systems in July 2000. In 2003, he took on the additional
role of Telecommunications group controller. He was appointed division vice president, operations controller in August 2004,
and vice president, corporate controller in October 2005. Mr. Tripeny was elected to his current position in April 2009. He
is on the board of directors of Hardinge Inc. Age 54.



Lewis A. SteversonSenior Vice
President and General Counsel

Mr. Steverson joined Corning in June
2013 as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining Corning, Mr. Steverson served as senior vice president,
general counsel, and secretary of Motorola Solutions, Inc. During his 18 years with Motorola, he held a variety of legal
leadership roles across the company’s numerous business units. Prior to Motorola, Mr. Steverson was in private practice
at the law firm of Arnold & Porter. Age 50.



CORNING INCORPORATED - 2013 Form 10-K9



Back to Contents

Document Availability



A copy of Corning’s 2013 Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available upon written request to Ms. Linda E.
Jolly, Corporate Secretary, Corning Incorporated, HQ-E2-10, Corning, NY 14831. The Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of
1934 and other filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed or
furnished to the SEC, and can be accessed electronically free of charge, through the Investor Relations line on
Corning’s web site atwww.corning.com. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included
in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Other



Additional information in response to Item
1 is found in Note 20 (Reportable Segments) to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 6 (Selected Financial Data).



