Item 1—Business

Costco Wholesale Corporation and its subsidiaries (“Costco” or the “Company”) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. In October 1993, we merged with The Price Company, which had
pioneered the membership warehouse concept, to form Price/Costco, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In January 1997, after the spin-off of most of our non-warehouse assets to Price Enterprises, Inc., we changed our name to Costco Companies, Inc. On
August 30, 1999, we reincorporated from Delaware to Washington and changed our name to Costco Wholesale Corporation. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “COST.”

General

We operate membership warehouses
based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and selected private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This
turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly
lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters.

We buy the majority of our
merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross-docking consolidation point (“depot”) or directly to our warehouses. Our depots receive container-based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to
our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty-four hours. This maximizes freight volume and handling efficiencies, eliminating many of the costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. Such traditional steps
include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and distributing warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor.

Because of our high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover, we generally sell inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise
vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts when available. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers
rather than by our working capital.

Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be
larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the availability of low
prices, our warehouses need not have elaborate facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to less than two-tenths of one percent of net
sales in the last several fiscal years—well below those of typical discount retail operations.







Item 1—Business (Continued)



We generally limit marketing and promotional activities to new warehouse openings, occasional
direct mail to prospective new members, and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, weekly email blasts from costco.com, and handouts) to existing members promoting
selected merchandise. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to typical retailers. In connection with new warehouse openings, our marketing teams personally contact businesses in the area that are potential business members.
These contacts are supported by direct mailings during the period immediately prior to opening. Potential Gold Star (individual) members are contacted by direct mail or by membership offerings distributed through employee associations and other
entities. After a membership base is established in an area, most new memberships result from word-of-mouth advertising, follow-up messages distributed through employee groups, and ongoing direct solicitations to prospective members.

Our warehouses generally operate on a seven-day, 69-hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier closing hours
on the weekend. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type
operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, thereby reducing labor required for handling and stocking.

Our strategy is to provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than they can obtain
elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast-selling models, sizes and colors. Therefore, we carry an average of approximately 3,900 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, as
opposed to 45,000 to 140,000 SKUs or more at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable products are offered for sale only in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only.

In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we have a 90-day return
policy in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty.

The following table indicates the approximate percentage of net sales accounted for by major category of items:



201020092008Sundries(including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional
supplies)23%23%22%Hardlines(including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, garden and patio, sporting
goods, toys, seasonal items and automotive supplies)18%19%19%Food(including dry and institutionally packaged foods)21%21%20%Softlines(including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings, cameras and small appliances)10%10%10%Fresh Food(including meat, bakery, deli and produce)12%12%12%Ancillary and Other(including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one-hour photo, hearing aid and travel)16%15%17%







Item 1—Business (Continued)





Ancillary businesses within
or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year end:



201020092008Food Court534521506One-Hour Photo Centers530518504Optical Dispensing Centers523509496Pharmacies480464451Gas Stations343323307Hearing-Aid Centers357303274Print Shops and Copy Centers10107Car Washes722Number of warehouses540527512

Costco Mexico, our 50%-owned joint
venture, operated 32 warehouses at August 29, 2010. We have contractual responsibility for executive, management and functional duties and operations of Costco Mexico. The Costco Mexico warehouses are not included in the table above as Costco
Mexico is accounted for using the equity method of accounting for investments.

Our electronic commerce businesses, costco.com in the
U.S. and costco.ca in Canada, provide our members additional products generally not found in our warehouses, in addition to services such as digital photo processing, pharmacy, travel, and membership services.

Our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards, American Express and a private label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored
checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making further purchases until restitution is made.

We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in
obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able to obtain alternative sources without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase
selected private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to name brand items.

Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three
quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The material seasonal impact in our operations is an increased level of net sales and earnings during
the winter holiday season. References to 2010, 2009, and 2008 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended August 29, 2010, August 30, 2009, and August 31, 2008, respectively.

Membership Policy

Our membership format is designed to reinforce customer loyalty and provide
a continuing source of membership fee revenue. Members can utilize their memberships at any Costco warehouse location in







Item 1—Business (Continued)



any country. We have two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). Our member renewal rate, currently at 88% in the U.S. and Canada, is consistent with recent years.
Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence, may become Business members. Business members generally pay an annual membership fee of $50 for the primary and household
membership card, with add-on membership cards available for an annual fee of $40 (including a free household card). Many of our business members also shop at Costco for their personal needs. Individual memberships (Gold Star memberships) are
available to individuals who do not qualify for a Business membership, for an annual fee of $50, which includes a household card.

Our
membership base was made up of the following (in thousands):



201020092008Gold Star22,50021,50020,200Business5,8005,7005,600Business, Add-on Primary3,3003,4003,400Total primary cardholders31,60030,60029,200Additional cardholders26,40025,40024,300Total cardholders58,00056,00053,500

These numbers exclude approximately 2,900 cardholders of Costco
Mexico at the end of 2010, and 2,800 cardholders at the end of 2009 and 2008.

Executive membership is available to all members, with
the exception of Business Add-on members, in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the United Kingdom for an annual fee of approximately $100. The program, in the U.S. and Canada, offers additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer
services, such as merchant credit-card processing, auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, and check printing services. The services are generally provided by third-parties and vary by country and state. In addition, Executive
members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $500 per year, on qualified purchases made at Costco. At the end of 2010, 2009, and 2008, Executive members represented 36%, 33%,
and 30%, respectively, of our primary membership base that was eligible for the program. Executive members generally spend more than other members, and the percentage of our net sales attributable to these members continues to increase.

Labor

Our employee count approximated:



201020092008Full-time employees82,00079,00075,000Part-time employees65,00063,00062,000Total employees147,000142,000137,000

These numbers exclude approximately 9,000 individuals who were
employed by Costco Mexico at the end of 2010, 2009, and 2008. Approximately 13,200 hourly employees in certain of our locations (all former Price Company locations) in five states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All
remaining employees are non-union. We consider our employee relations to be very good.







Item 1—Business (Continued)





Competition

Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. We
compete with 800 warehouse club locations across the U.S. and Canada (Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club and BJ’s Wholesale Club), and every major metropolitan area has multiple club operations. In addition, we compete with a wide range of
national and regional retailers and wholesalers, including supermarkets, supercenters, general merchandise chains, specialty chains, and gasoline stations, as well as electronic commerce businesses. Competitors such as Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s
and Amazon are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with low-cost operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowe’s, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Trader
Joe’s, Whole Foods, Best Buy and Barnes & Noble. Our international operations face similar competitors.

Regulation

Certain state laws require that we apply minimum markups to our selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products, alcoholic beverages,
and gasoline. While compliance with such laws may cause us to charge higher prices, other retailers are also typically governed by the same restrictions, and we believe that compliance with such laws currently in effect do not have a material
adverse effect on our operations.

Certain states, counties, and municipalities have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would
prevent or restrict the operations or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us, within their jurisdictions. If enacted, such laws and regulations could have a material adverse affect on our operations.

Intellectual Property

We believe that our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents, trade dress and similar
intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands, including the Costco Wholesale®series of trademarks and our private label brand, Kirkland Signature®. Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower than those for national brand products. Kirkland Signature
products allow us to ensure our quality standards are met, while minimizing costs and differentiating our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and to generally earn higher margins. We expect that our private label items will increase their
share of our sales in the future. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection
may not be available in every country in which we operate.

Available Information

Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.







Item 1—Business (Continued)





Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following is a list of the names, ages, and positions of the executive officers of the Company. All executive officers have 25
or more years of service with the Company.





NamePosition With CompanyExecutiveOfficerSinceAge

James D. SinegalChief Executive Officer. Mr. Sinegal is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception. In February 2010, Mr. Sinegal relinquished his role as President of the
Company, which he had held since the Company’s inception.198374



Jeffrey H. BrotmanChairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co-founder of the Company and has been a director since its inception.198368



W. Craig JelinekPresident and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since February 2010, when he also joined the Board of Directors. Prior to
that date, he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004.199558



Richard A. GalantiExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director of the Company since January 1995.199354



Paul G. MoultonExecutive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. He was Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development until March 2010.200159



Joseph P. PorteraExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions.199458



Douglas W. SchuttExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. He was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern and Midwest Division from 2004 to March
2010.200451



John D.
McKayExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern and Midwest Division. He was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region from 2000 to March 2010.201053



Thomas K. WalkerExecutive Vice President, Construction, Distribution and Traffic.200470



Dennis R. ZookExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest and Mexico Divisions.199361

The Company has adopted a code of ethics for
senior financial officers pursuant to section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027.







