Item 1—Business

Costco Wholesale Corporation and its
subsidiaries (Costco or the Company) began operations in 1983 in Seattle, Washington. We are principally engaged in the operation of membership warehouses in the United States (U.S.) and Puerto Rico, Canada, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Japan,
Australia, and through majority-owned subsidiaries in Taiwan and Korea. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “COST.”

Historically, our operations in Mexico were through a 50% owned joint venture (Mexico). On July 10, 2012 we acquired the remaining 50% interest in Mexico from our joint venture partner. At the beginning of
fiscal 2011, we began consolidating our Mexico joint venture due to the adoption of a new accounting standard. Mexico’s results previously were accounted for under the equity method and our 50% share was included in “interest income and
other, net” in the consolidated statements of income. In fiscal 2011 and 2012, Mexico’s operations are fully consolidated and the joint venture partner’s 50% share, through the acquisition date, is included in “net income
attributable to noncontrolling interest” in the consolidated statement of income. After the acquisition date, 100% of Mexico’s operations are included in “net income attributable to Costco.” See discussion in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

We report on a 52/53-week fiscal year, consisting of thirteen
four-week periods and ending on the Sunday nearest the end of August. The first three quarters consist of three periods each, and the fourth quarter consists of four periods (five weeks in the thirteenth period in a 53-week year). The material
seasonal impact in our operations is an increased level of net sales and earnings during the winter holiday season. References to 2012 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended September 2, 2012. References to 2011 and 2010 relate to the 52-week
fiscal years ended August 28, 2011 and August 29, 2010, respectively.

General

We operate membership warehouses based on the concept that offering our members low prices on a limited selection of nationally branded and select
private-label products in a wide range of merchandise categories will produce high sales volumes and rapid inventory turnover. This turnover, when combined with the operating efficiencies achieved by volume purchasing, efficient distribution and
reduced handling of merchandise in no-frills, self-service warehouse facilities, enables us to operate profitably at significantly lower gross margins than traditional wholesalers, mass merchandisers, supermarkets, and supercenters.

We buy the majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers and route it to a cross-docking consolidation point (depot) or directly to our
warehouses. Our depots receive container-based shipments from manufacturers and reallocate these goods for shipment to our individual warehouses, generally in less than twenty-four hours. This process maximizes freight volume and handling
efficiencies, eliminating many of the costs associated with traditional multiple-step distribution channels. Such traditional steps include purchasing from distributors as opposed to manufacturers, use of central receiving, storing and distributing
warehouses, and storage of merchandise in locations off the sales floor.

Because of our high sales volume and rapid inventory turnover,
we generally sell inventory before we are required to pay many of our merchandise vendors, even though we take advantage of early payment discounts when available. To the extent that sales increase and inventory turnover becomes more rapid, a
greater percentage of inventory is financed through payment terms provided by suppliers rather than by our working capital.







Item 1—Business (Continued)



Our typical warehouse format averages approximately 143,000 square feet; newer units tend to be
slightly larger. Floor plans are designed for economy and efficiency in the use of selling space, the handling of merchandise, and the control of inventory. Because shoppers are attracted principally by the quality of merchandise and the
availability of low prices, our warehouses are not elaborate facilities. By strictly controlling the entrances and exits of our warehouses and using a membership format, we have limited inventory losses (shrinkage) to amounts well below those of
typical discount retail operations.

Marketing and promotional activities generally relate to new warehouse openings, occasional direct
mail to prospective new members, and regular direct marketing programs (such as The Costco Connection, a magazine we publish for our members, coupon mailers, weekly emails from costco.com and costco.ca, and handouts) to existing members promoting
selected merchandise. These practices result in lower marketing expenses as compared to typical retailers.

Our warehouses generally
operate on a seven-day, 69-hour week, open weekdays between 10:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m., with earlier weekend closing hours. Gasoline operations generally have extended hours. Because the hours of operation are shorter than those of
traditional retailers, discount retailers and supermarkets, and due to other efficiencies inherent in a warehouse-type operation, labor costs are lower relative to the volume of sales. Merchandise is generally stored on racks above the sales floor
and displayed on pallets containing large quantities, thereby reducing labor required for handling and stocking.

Our strategy is to
provide our members with a broad range of high quality merchandise at prices consistently lower than they can obtain elsewhere. We seek to limit specific items in each product line to fast-selling models, sizes, and colors. Therefore, we carry an
average of approximately 3,300 to 3,800 active stock keeping units (SKUs) per warehouse in our core warehouse business, as opposed to a significantly higher number of SKUs at discount retailers, supermarkets, and supercenters. Many consumable
products are offered for sale in case, carton, or multiple-pack quantities only.

In keeping with our policy of member satisfaction, we
generally accept returns of merchandise. On certain electronic items, we typically have a 90-day return policy and provide, free of charge, technical support services, as well as an extended warranty. Additional third-party warranty coverage is sold
on certain electronic item purchases.

The following table indicates the approximate percentage of annual net sales accounted for by
major category of items:



2012201120101Sundries(including candy, snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages and cleaning and institutional
supplies)22%22%23%Hardlines(including major appliances, electronics, health and beauty aids, hardware, office supplies, cameras, garden and patio,
sporting goods, toys, seasonal items and automotive supplies)16%17%18%Food(including dry and institutionally packaged foods)21%21%21%Softlines(including apparel, domestics, jewelry, housewares, media, home furnishings and small appliances)10%10%10%Fresh Food(including meat, bakery, deli and produce)13%12%12%Ancillary and Other(including gas stations, pharmacy, food court, optical, one-hour photo, hearing aid and travel)18%18%16%



1Excludes Mexico







Item 1—Business (Continued)



Ancillary businesses within or next to our warehouses provide expanded products and services and
encourage members to shop more frequently. The following table indicates the number of ancillary businesses in operation at fiscal year-end:



2012201120102Food Court602586534One-Hour Photo Centers591581530Optical Dispensing Centers589574523Pharmacies544529480Hearing-Aid Centers469427357Gas Stations394368343Print Shops and Copy Centers101010Car Washes777Number of warehouses608592540



2Excludes the 32 warehouses operated in Mexico

Our online businesses at costco.com in the U.S. and costco.ca in Canada, provide our members additional products generally not found in our warehouses, in addition to services such as digital photo processing,
pharmacy, travel, and membership services.

Our warehouses accept cash, checks, certain debit cards, American Express and a private
label Costco credit card. Losses associated with dishonored checks have been minimal, as members who have issued dishonored checks are identified and prevented from making further purchases until restitution is made.

We have direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand-name merchandise. We do not obtain a significant portion of merchandise
from any one supplier. We have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient quantities of merchandise, and believe that if one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we would be able to obtain alternative sources
without substantial disruption of our business. We also purchase private label merchandise, as long as quality and customer demand are comparable and the value to our members is greater as compared to brand-name items.

Certain financial information for our segments and geographic areas is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 of this Report.

Membership Policy

Our membership format is designed to reinforce member loyalty and provide a continuing source of membership fee revenue. Members can utilize their membership at any Costco warehouse location in any country. We have
two primary types of members: Business and Gold Star (individual). Our member renewal rate was approximately 89.7% in the U.S. and Canada, and approximately 86.4% on a worldwide basis in 2012, consistent with recent years. The renewal rate is a
trailing calculation that captures renewals during the period seven to eighteen months prior to the reporting date. Businesses, including individuals with a business license, retail sales license or other evidence of business existence, may become
Business members. Business members generally pay an annual membership fee of approximately $55 for the primary card-holder, with add-on membership cards available for an annual fee of approximately $55 each. Many of our business members also shop at
Costco for their personal needs. Gold Star memberships are also available for an annual fee of approximately $55 to individuals who may not qualify for a Business membership. All paid memberships include a free household card.







Item 1—Business (Continued)



Our membership was made up of the following (in thousands):



2012201120101Gold Star26,70025,00022,500Business6,4006,3005,800Business, Add-on Primary3,8004,0003,300Total primary cardholders36,90035,30031,600Additional cardholders30,10028,70026,400Total cardholders67,00064,00058,000



1Excludes approximately 2,900 cardholders in Mexico.

Executive membership is available to all members, with the exception of Business Add-on members, in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, and the United Kingdom for an annual fee of approximately $110. This program, excluding
Mexico, offers additional savings and benefits on various business and consumer services, such as check printing services, auto and home insurance, the Costco auto purchase program, online investing, and merchant credit-card processing. The services
are generally provided by third-parties and vary by country and state. In addition, Executive members qualify for a 2% annual reward (which can be redeemed at Costco warehouses), up to a maximum of approximately $750 per year, on qualified
purchases. At the end of 2012, 2011, and 2010, Executive members represented 38%, 38%, and 36%, respectively, of our primary membership. Executive members generally spend more than other members, and the percentage of our net sales attributable to
these members continues to increase.

Effective November 1, 2011, for new members, and January 1, 2012, for renewing members,
we increased our annual membership fee by $5 for U.S. Goldstar (individual), Business, Business Add-on and Canada Business members to $55. Our U.S. and Canada Executive Membership annual fee increased from $100 to $110 annually and the Executive
Membership 2% reward annual limit increased from $500 to $750. We account for membership fee revenue on a deferred basis, whereby revenue is recognized ratably over the one-year membership period.

Labor

Our employee count approximated:



2012201120102Full-time employees96,00092,00082,000Part-time employees78,00072,00065,000Total employees174,000164,000147,000



2Excludes approximately 9,000 individuals employed in Mexico.

Approximately 13,700 hourly employees in certain of our locations in five states are represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. All remaining employees are non-union. We consider our employee
relations to be very good.

Competition

Our industry is highly competitive, based on factors such as price, merchandise quality and selection, warehouse location and member service. We compete with over 800 warehouse club locations across







Item 1—Business (Continued)



the U.S. and Canada (primarily Wal-Mart’s Sam’s Club and BJ’s Wholesale Club), and every major metropolitan area has multiple club operations. In addition, we compete with a wide
range of global, national and regional wholesalers and retailers, including supermarkets, supercenter stores, department and specialty stores, gasoline stations, and internet-based retailers. Competitors such as Wal-Mart, Target, Kohl’s and
Amazon.com are among our significant general merchandise retail competitors. We also compete with low-cost operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise, such as Lowe’s, Home Depot, Office Depot, PetSmart, Staples, Kroger,
Trader Joe’s, Whole Foods, CVS, Walgreens and Best Buy. Our international operations face similar types of competitors.

Regulation

Certain state laws require that we apply minimum markups to our selling prices for specific goods, such as tobacco products,
alcoholic beverages, and gasoline. While compliance with such laws may cause us to charge higher prices, other retailers are also typically governed by the same restrictions, and we believe that compliance with such laws currently in effect do not
have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Intellectual Property

We believe that, to varying degrees, our trademarks, trade names, copyrights, proprietary processes, trade secrets, patents,
trade dress, domain names and similar intellectual property add significant value to our business and are important factors in our success. We have invested significantly in the development and protection of our well-recognized brands, including the
Costco Wholesale®series of trademarks and our private label brand, Kirkland Signature®. We believe that Kirkland Signature products are premium products offered to our members at prices that are generally lower
than those for national brand products and that they help lower costs, differentiate our merchandise offerings from other retailers, and generally earn higher margins. We expect to increase the sales penetration of our private label items in the
future.

We rely on trademark and copyright laws, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and license agreements with our
suppliers, employees and others to protect our proprietary rights. The availability and duration of trademark registrations vary from country to country; however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in
use and their registrations are properly maintained.

Available Information

Our internet website is www.costco.com. We make available through the Investor Relations section of that site, free of charge, our Annual Reports on
Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with, or furnishing such documents to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the
SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

We have adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers pursuant to Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Copies of the code are available free of charge by writing to Secretary, Costco Wholesale







Item 1—Business (Continued)



Corporation, 999 Lake Drive, Issaquah, WA 98027. If the Company makes any amendments to this code (other than technical, administrative, or non-substantive amendments) or grants any waivers,
including implicit waivers, from this code to the CEO, chief financial officer or controller, we will disclose (on our website or in a Form 8-K report filed with the SEC) the nature of the amendment or waiver, its effective date, and to whom it
applies.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of Costco, their position, and ages are listed below. All executive officers have 25 or more years of service with the Company. Effective January 1, 2012, Jim Sinegal retired as our
Chief Executive Officer but is continuing with the Company in an advisory role until February 2013. In addition, he will continue to serve on the Board of Directors.





NamePositionExecutiveOfficerSinceAge

W. Craig JelinekPresident and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Jelinek has been President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012 and has been a director since February 2010. He was President and Chief
Operating Officer from February 2010 to December 2011. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising since 2004.199560



Jeffrey H. BrotmanChairman of the Board. Mr. Brotman is a co-founder of Costco and has been a director since its inception.198370



Richard A. GalantiExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Galanti has been a director since January 1995.199356



Franz LazarusExecutive Vice President, Administration. Mr. Lazarus was Senior Vice President, Administration-Global Operations since 2006.201265



John McKayExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division. Mr. McKay was Senior Vice President, General Manager, Northwest Region from 2000 to March 2010.201055



Paul G. MoultonExecutive Vice President of Information Systems. Mr. Moulton was Executive Vice President, Real Estate Development until March 2010.200161



James P. MurphyExecutive Vice President, International. Mr. Murphy was Senior Vice President, International, from September 2004 to October 2010.201159



Joseph P. PorteraExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Eastern and Canadian Divisions. Chief Diversity Officer since 2010.199460



Douglas W. SchuttExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Merchandising. Mr. Schutt was Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Northern Division and Midwest Region from 2004 to March
2010.200453



Thomas K. WalkerExecutive Vice President, Construction and Distribution.200472



Dennis R. ZookExecutive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Southwest Division and Mexico.199363







