Item 1.  Business.

General

Kraft Heinz is one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, with sales in approximately190countries and territories. We manufacture and market food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products, throughout the world, under a host of iconic brands includingHeinz,Kraft,Oscar Mayer,Philadelphia,Velveeta, Lunchables,Planters, Maxwell House,Capri Sun, Ore-Ida, Kool-Aid, Jell-O.A globally recognized producer of delicious foods, we provide products for all occasions whether at home, in restaurants or on the go. As ofDecember 30, 2017, we had assets of$120.2 billion. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the ticker symbol “KHC”.

On July 2, 2015 (the “2015 Merger Date”), through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (“Kraft”) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (“Heinz”) (the “2015 Merger”). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company. While we were organized as a Delaware corporation in 2013 (as Heinz), both Kraft and Heinz each had been pioneers in the food industry for over 100 years.

Before the consummation of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was controlled by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ("Berkshire Hathaway") and 3G Global Food Holdings, L.P. (“3G Capital”) (together, the "Sponsors"), following their acquisition of H. J. Heinz Company (the “2013 Merger”).

See Note 1,Background and Basis of Presentation, and Note 2,Merger and Acquisition, to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the 2015 Merger.

Reportable Segments

We manage and report our operating results throughfoursegments. We havethreereportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, Canada, and Europe. Our remaining businesses are combined and disclosed as “Rest of World”. Rest of World is comprised oftwooperating segments: Latin America; and Asia Pacific, Middle East, and Africa (“AMEA”).

In the third quarter of 2017, we announced our plans to reorganize certain of our international businesses to better align our global geographies. These plans include moving our Middle East and Africa businesses from the AMEA segment into the Europe segment, forming the Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”) segment. The remaining AMEA businesses will become the Asia Pacific (“APAC”) segment, which will remain in Rest of World. We expect these changes to become effective in the first quarter of 2018. As a result, we expect to restate our Europe and Rest of World segments to reflect these changes for historical periods presented in the first quarter of 2018.

See Note 19,Segment Reporting, to the consolidated financial statements for our geographic financial information by segment.

Net Sales by Product Category

In the first quarter of 2017, we reorganized the products within our product categories to reflect how we manage our business. We have reflected this change for all historical periods presented.The product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales in any of the periods presented were:

December 30,2017(52 weeks)December 31,2016(52 weeks)January 3,2016(53 weeks)Condiments and sauces25%24%32%Cheese and dairy21%21%15%Ambient meals9%9%10%Frozen and chilled meals10%10%12%Meats and seafood10%10%8%

We completed the 2015 Merger on July 2, 2015. As a result, 2016 was the first full year of combined Kraft and Heinz results, while 2015 included a full year of Heinz results and post-2015 Merger results of Kraft. The year-over-year fluctuations in the percentages between 2015 and 2016 are primarily driven by including Kraft’s results.










Sales and Customers

Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative and independent grocery accounts, convenience stores, drug stores, value stores, bakeries, pharmacies, mass merchants, club stores, foodservice distributors and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, hospitals, health care facilities, and certain government agencies. Our products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. Our largest customer, Walmart Inc., represented approximately21%of our net sales in 2017, approximately22%of our net sales in 2016, and approximately20%of our net sales in 2015.

Additionally, we have significant customers in different regions around the world; however, none of these customers individually are material to our consolidated business. In 2017, the five largest customers in our United States segment accounted for approximately 48% of United States segment net sales, the five largest customers in our Canada segment accounted for approximately 72% of Canada segment net sales, and the five largest customers in ourEuropesegment accounted for approximately 31% of ourEuropesegment net sales.

Raw Materials and Packaging

Our procurement teams monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. We use a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures.

Competition

Our products are sold in highly competitive marketplaces, which have experienced increased concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers, and discounters. Competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and generic products, in addition to retailer brands, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality and innovation, brand recognition and loyalty, service, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs, distribution, shelf space, merchandising support, and price. Improving our market position or introducing new products requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures.










Trademarks and Intellectual Property

Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Significant trademarks by segment based on net sales in 2017 were:

Majority Owned and Licensed TrademarksUnited StatesKraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Philadelphia, Lunchables, Velveeta, Planters, Maxwell House, Capri Sun*, Ore-Ida, Kool-Aid, Jell-OCanadaKraft, Heinz, Philadelphia, Cracker Barrel, P’Tit Cheese, Maxwell House, Tassimo*, ClassicoEuropeHeinz, Plasmon, Pudliszki, Honig, HP, BenedictaRest of WorldHeinz, ABC, Master, Quero, Golden Circle, Kraft, Wattie's, Glucon D, Complan

*Used under license

We sell some products under brands we license from third parties, includingCapri Sunpackaged drink pouches for sale in the United States,TGI Fridaysfrozen snacks and appetizers in the United States and Canada, McCafeground, whole bean, and on-demand single cup coffees in the United States and Canada,andTaco Bell Home OriginalsMexican-style food products in U.S. grocery stores. In our agreements with Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz International”), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions for certain periods of time following the spin-off of Kraft from Mondelēz International in 2012.

We own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country.

Research and Development

Our research and development focuses on achieving the following four objectives:

•growth through product improvements and renovation, innovation, and line extensions,

•uncompromising product safety and quality,

•superior customer satisfaction, and

•cost reduction.

Research and development expense was approximately$93 millionin 2017,$120 millionin 2016, and$105 millionin 2015.

Seasonality

Although crops constituting some of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, most of our products are produced throughout the year.

Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. These factors influence our quarterly sales, operating income, and cash flows.

Employees

We had approximately 39,000 employees as ofDecember 30, 2017.










Regulation

Environmental Regulation

Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various laws concerning the handling, storage, and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations.

In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party. We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other similar state actions and legislation) related to our current operations and certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. We do not currently expect these to have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition.

As ofDecember 30, 2017, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition. However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves.



Executive Officers

The following are our executive officers as of February 10, 2018:

NameAgeTitleBernardo Hees48Chief Executive OfficerDavid Knopf29Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerPaulo Basilio43President of U.S. Commercial BusinessPedro Drevon35Zone President of Latin AmericaRashida La Lande44Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryRafael Oliveira43Zone President of EMEAEduardo Pelleissone44Executive Vice President of Global OperationsCarlos Piani44Zone President of CanadaRodrigo Wickbold41Zone President of APAC

Bernardo Heesbecame Chief Executive Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger. He had previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Hees served as Chief Executive Officer of Burger King Worldwide Holdings, Inc., a global fast food restaurant chain, from September 2010 to June 2013 and Burger King Worldwide, Inc. from June 2012 to June 2013 and as Chief Executive Officer of América Latina Logística (“ALL”), a logistics company, from January 2005 to September 2010. Mr. Hees has also been a partner at 3G Capital since July 2010.










David Knopfbecame Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in October 2017. He had previously served as Vice President, Category Head of Planters Business since August 2016. Prior to that role, Mr. Knopf served as Vice President of Finance, Head of Global Budget & Business Planning, Zero-Based Budgeting, and Financial & Strategic Planning from July 2015 to August 2016. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz in July 2015, Mr. Knopf served in various roles at 3G Capital, including as an associate partner. Before joining 3G Capital in October 2013, Mr. Knopf served in various roles at Onex Partners, a private equity firm, and Goldman Sachs, a global investment banking, securities, and investment management firm. Mr. Knopf has also been a partner of 3G Capital since July 2015.

Paulo Basilioassumed his current role as President of the U.S. Commercial Business in October 2017. Mr. Basilio previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger until October 2017. He had previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Executive Officer of ALL from September 2010 to June 2012, after having served in various roles at ALL, including Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Analyst. Mr. Basilio has also been a partner of 3G Capital since July 2012.

Pedro Drevonassumed his current role as Zone President of Latin America in October 2017. Previously he served as Managing Director for Kraft Heinz Brazil since August 2015. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz in 2015, Mr. Drevon served in various capacities at 3G Capital. Before joining 3G Capital in 2008, Mr. Drevon served in various roles at Banco BBM, a financial advisory and wealth management firm. Mr. Drevon has also been a partner of 3G Capital since January 2011.

Rashida La Landejoined Kraft Heinz as Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in January 2018. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Ms. La Lande was a partner at the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, where she advised corporations and their boards, primarily in the areas of mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, private equity deals, and joint ventures. During her nearly 20-year career at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, she represented companies and private equity sponsors in the consumer products, retail, financial services, and technology industries.

Rafael Oliveiraassumed his current role as Zone President of EMEA in October 2016 after serving as the Managing Director of Kraft Heinz UK & Ireland. Mr. Oliveira joined Kraft Heinz in July 2014 and served as President of Kraft Heinz Australia, New Zealand, and Papua New Guinea until September 2016. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Oliveira spent 17 years in the financial industry, the final 10 of which he held a variety of leadership positions with Goldman Sachs, a global investment banking, securities, and investment management firm.

Eduardo Pelleissoneassumed his current role as Executive Vice President of Global Operations upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz since July 2013. Prior to joining Heinz, Mr. Pelleissone was Chief Executive Officer of ALL from May 2012 to June 2013. Prior to assuming that role, Mr. Pelleissone held the roles of Chief Operating Officer from July 2011 to 2012 and Commercial Vice President of the Agriculture Segment at ALL from 2004 to 2011.

Carlos Pianiwas appointed Zone President of Canada in September 2015. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Piani served as Chief Executive Officer of PDG Realty S.A. Empreendimentos e Participacoes, a real estate company, from August 2012 to August 2015. Previously, he served as Co-Head of Private Equity of Vinci Partners, an independent asset management firm, from April 2010 to August 2012, as Chief Executive Officer of Companhia Energetica do Maranhao (“CEMAR”), an electricity distribution company, from March 2006 to April 2010, and as Chief Executive Officer of Equatorial Energia S/A, CEMAR’s controlling shareholder, from March 2007 to April 2010.

Rodrigo Wickboldassumed his current role as Zone President of APAC in January 2018 after serving as Chief Marketing Officer of APAC since January 2016. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz in January 2016, Mr. Wickbold served in various marketing and business leadership roles at Unilever, a consumer products company, since 2000, including as Global Senior Brand Manager - Skin Care.



Available Information

Our website address iswww.kraftheinzcompany.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are available free of charge on our website as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Heinz, that are electronically filed with the SEC.












