Item 1.  Business.

General

Kraft Heinz is one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, with sales inmore than 190 countries and territories. We manufacture and market food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products, throughout the world, under a host of iconic brands includingHeinz,Kraft,Oscar Mayer,Planters,Philadelphia,Velveeta, Lunchables,Maxwell House,Capri Sun, andOre-Ida.A globally recognized producer of delicious foods, we provide products for all occasions whether at home, in restaurants or on the go. As of January 3, 2016, we had assets of$123 billion. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the ticker symbol “KHC”.

On July 2, 2015 (the “2015 Merger Date”), through a series of transactions, we consummated the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (“Kraft”) with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (“Heinz”) (the “2015 Merger”). At the closing of the 2015 Merger, Heinz was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company and H. J. Heinz Company changed its name to Kraft Heinz Foods Company. While Kraft Heinz was organized as a Delaware corporation in 2013 (as Heinz), both Kraft and Heinz have been pioneers in the food industry for over 100 years.

On June 7, 2013, H. J. Heinz Company was acquired by Heinz (formerly known as Hawk Acquisition Holding Corporation), a Delaware corporation controlled by the Sponsors, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated February 13, 2013 (the “2013 Merger Agreement”), as amended by the Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated March 4, 2013 (the “Amendment”), by and among H. J. Heinz Company, Heinz, and Hawk Acquisition Sub, Inc. (“Hawk”).

See Note 1,Background and Basis of Presentation,and Note 2,Merger and Acquisition, to the consolidated financial statements for further information on the 2015 Merger and the 2013 Merger.

Periods Presented

The 2013 Merger established a new accounting basis for Heinz. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements present both Predecessor and Successor periods, which relate to the accounting periods preceding and succeeding the completion of the 2013 Merger. The Predecessor and Successor periods are separated by a vertical line on the face of the consolidated financial statements to highlight the fact that the financial information for such periods has been prepared under two different historical-cost bases of accounting.

Additionally, on October 21, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a change in our fiscal year-end from the Sunday closest to April 30 to the Sunday closest to December 31.In 2013, as a result of the change in fiscal year-end, the 2013 Merger, and the creation of Hawk, there are three 2013 reporting periods as described below.

The “Successor (Heinz, renamed to The Kraft Heinz Company at the closing of the 2015 Merger) Period” includes:

•The consolidated financial statements for the year ended January 3, 2016 (a 53 week period, including a full year of Heinz results and post-2015 Merger results of Kraft);

•The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 28, 2014 (a 52 week period, including a full year of Heinz results); and

•The period from February 8, 2013 through December 29, 2013 (the “2013 Successor Period”), reflecting:










▪The creation of Hawk on February 8, 2013 andthe activity from February 8, 2013 to June 7, 2013, which related primarily to the issuance of debt and recognition of associated issuance costs and interest expense; and

▪All activity subsequent to the 2013 Merger. Therefore, the 2013 Successor Period includes 29 weeks of operating activity (June 8, 2013 to December 29, 2013). We indicate on our financial statements the weeks of operating activities in this period.

The “Predecessor (H. J. Heinz Company) Period” includes, but is not limited to:

•The consolidated financial statements of H. J. Heinz Company prior to the 2013 Merger on June 7, 2013, which includes the period from April 29, 2013 through June 7, 2013 (the “2013 Predecessor Period”); this represents six weeks of activity from April 29, 2013 through the 2013 Merger; and

•The consolidated financial statements of H. J. Heinz Company for the fiscal year from April 30, 2012 to April 28, 2013 (“Fiscal 2013”).

Reportable Segments

Following the 2015 Merger, we revised our segment structure and began to manage and report our operating results throughfour segments. We havethreereportable segments defined by geographic region: United States, Canada, and Europe. Our remaining businesses are combined and disclosed as “Rest of World.” Rest of World is comprised ofthreeoperating segments: Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Russia, India, the Middle East and Africa (“RIMEA”). We began to report on our reorganized segment structure during the third quarter of 2015 and have reflected this structure for all historical periods presented.

See Note 20,Segment Reporting, to the consolidated financial statements for financial information by segment.

Net Sales by Product Category

Product categories that contributed 10% or more to consolidated net sales for theyears ended January 3, 2016 and December 28, 2014, the 2013 Successor Period, the 2013 Predecessor Period, and Fiscal 2013were:

SuccessorPredecessor(H. J. Heinz Company)January 3,2016(53 weeks)December 28,2014(52 weeks)February 8 - December 29,2013(29 weeks)April 29 - June 7,2013(6 weeks)April 28,2013(52 weeks)Condiments and sauces32%50%49%48%47%Cheese and dairy15%—%—%—%—%Ambient meals10%14%14%13%14%Frozen and chilled meals12%18%19%18%20%Infant/nutrition5%10%10%11%10%

Sales and Customers

Our products are sold through our own sales organizations and through independent brokers, agents and distributors to chain, wholesale, cooperative and independent grocery accounts, convenience stores, drug stores, value stores, bakeries, pharmacies, mass merchants, club stores, foodservice distributors and institutions, including hotels, restaurants, hospitals, health care facilities, and certain government agencies. For the year ended January 3, 2016 Wal-Mart Stores Inc., our largest customer, represented approximately 20% of our net sales. For the year ended December 28, 2014, the 2013 Successor Period, the 2013 Predecessor Period, and Fiscal 2013 Wal-Mart Stores Inc., represented approximately 10% of our net sales. Additionally, we have significant customers in different regions around the world; however, none of these customers individually are material to our consolidated business. For the year ended January 3, 2016, the five largest customers in our United States segment accounted for approximately 45% of United States segment sales, the five largest customers in our Canada segment accounted for approximately 75% of Canada segment sales, and the five largest customers in our Europe segment accounted for approximately 35% of our Europe segment sales.

Raw Materials and Packaging

We manufacture (and contract for the manufacture of) our products from a wide variety of raw food materials. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, wheat and other goods to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins and cardboard to package our products and natural gas to operate our facilities. For commodities that we use across many of our product categories, such as corrugated paper and energy, we coordinate sourcing










requirements and centralize procurement to leverage our scale. In addition, some of our product lines and brands separately source raw materials that are specific to their operations. We source these commodities from a variety of providers including large, international producers, and smaller, local independent sellers. Where appropriate, we seek to establish preferred purchaser status and/or have developed strategic partnerships with many of our suppliers with the objective of achieving favorable pricing and dependable supply for many of our commodities. The prices of raw materials and agricultural materials that we use in our products are affected by external factors, such as global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, consumer, industrial or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, alternative energy, and agricultural programs.

The most significant cost components of our cheese products are dairy commodities, including milk and cheese. We purchase our dairy raw material requirements from independent third parties, such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. Market supply and demand, as well as government programs, significantly influence the prices for milk and other dairy products. Significant cost components in our meat business include pork, beef, and poultry, which we primarily purchase from applicable local markets. Livestock feed costs and the global supply and demand for U.S. meats influence the prices of these meat products. The most significant cost component of our coffee products is coffee beans, which we purchase on world markets. Quality and availability of supply, currency fluctuations, and consumer demand for coffee products impact coffee bean prices. The most significant cost components in our nut products include peanuts, cashews and almonds, which we purchase on both domestic and world markets, where global market supply and demand is the primary driver of price.

Our risk management group works with our procurement teams to monitor worldwide supply and cost trends so we can obtain ingredients and packaging needed for production at competitive prices. Although the prices of our principal raw materials can be expected to fluctuate, we believe there will be an adequate supply of the raw materials we use and that they are generally available from numerous sources. Our risk management group uses a range of hedging techniques in an effort to limit the impact of price fluctuations on many of our principal raw materials. However, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw material costs. We actively monitor any changes to commodity costs so that we can seek to mitigate the effect through pricing and other operational measures.

Competition

We face competition in all aspects of our business. Competitors include large national and international food and beverage companies and numerous local and regional companies. We compete with both branded and generic products, in addition to retailer brands, wholesalers, and cooperatives. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality and innovation, brand recognition and loyalty, service, the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs, distribution, shelf space, merchandising support, and price. Improving our market position or introducing a new product requires substantial advertising and promotional expenditures.

Trademarks and Intellectual Property

Our trademarks are material to our business and are among our most valuable assets.  Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use or their registration status is maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Some of our significant trademarks by segment include:

Majority Owned and Licensed TrademarksUnited StatesKraft, Oscar Mayer, Heinz, Planters, Velveeta, Philadelphia, Lunchables, Maxwell House, Capri Sun, Ore-Ida, Kool-Aid, Jell-OCanadaKraft, Heinz, Cracker Barrel, Philadelphia, Tassimo, Maxwell HouseEuropeHeinz, Plasmon, Lea & PerrinsRest of WorldHeinz, ABC, Master, Quero, Golden Circle, Wattie's, Complan

Additionally, we own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses under patents owned by third parties, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions ranging from basic packaging techniques to processes relating to specific products and to the products themselves. While our patent portfolio is material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country.










We sell some products under brands we license from third parties, includingCapri Sunpackaged drink pouches for sale in the United States,T.G.I. Friday’sfrozen snacks and appetizers in the United States and Canada, McCafeground, whole bean and on-demand single cup coffees in the United States and Canada, Taco Bell Home OriginalsMexican-style food products in U.S. grocery stores andWeight Watchers Smart Onesfrozen entrees, snacks and desserts in the United States and Canada. In our agreements with Mondelēz International, Inc. (“Mondelēz International,” formerly known as Kraft Foods Inc.), we each granted the other party various licenses to use certain of our and their respective intellectual property rights in named jurisdictions for an agreed period of time following the spin-off of Kraft from Mondelēz International in 2012.

Research and Development

Our research and development focuses on achieving the following four objectives:

•growth through product improvements and renovations, new products, and line extensions,

•uncompromising product safety and quality,

•superior customer satisfaction, and

•cost reduction.

Research and development expense was$105 millionin the year ended January 3, 2016,$58 millionin the year ended December 28, 2014,$53 millionin the 2013 Successor Period,$10 millionin the 2013 Predecessor Period, and$93 millionin Fiscal 2013.

Seasonality

Although crops constituting some of our raw food ingredients are harvested on a seasonal basis, most of our products are produced throughout the year.

Seasonal factors inherent in our business change the demand for products, including holidays, changes in seasons, or other annual events. These factors influence our quarterly sales, operating income and cash flows. Therefore, it is most meaningful to compare quarterly results to the same quarters of prior years.

Employees

We had approximately 42,000 employees as of January 3, 2016.

Regulation

Our business operations, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, quality and safety of our products, occupational safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are manufactured, distributed or sold.

We are required to comply with a variety of U.S. and Canadian laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Safe Food for Canadians Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating the sale of certain of our products in schools. We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside of North America, including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption and data privacy. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.

Environmental Regulation

Our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. Various laws concerning the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and the operation of facilities in environmentally sensitive locations may impact aspects of our operations.

In the United States, where a significant portion of our business operates, these laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”). CERCLA imposes joint and several liability on each potentially responsible party.










We are involved in a number of active proceedings in the United States under CERCLA (and other similar state actions and legislation) related to our current operations and certain closed, inactive, or divested operations for which we retain liability. We do not currently expect these to have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition.

As of January 3, 2016, we had accrued an amount we deemed appropriate for environmental remediation. Based on information currently available, we believe that the ultimate resolution of existing environmental remediation actions and our compliance in general with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material effect on our earnings or financial condition.

However, it is difficult to predict with certainty the potential impact of future compliance efforts and environmental remedial actions and thus, future costs associated with such matters may exceed current reserves.

Foreign Operations

For the year ended January 3, 2016, we generated a significant amount of our net sales from operations outside of the United States, and sell our products inmore than 190 countries and territories. For additional information about our foreign operations, see Note 20,Segment Reporting, to the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Item 2,Properties, for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. Also, for a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the United States, including currency risk, seeRisk Factorsin Item 1A.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following are our executive officers as of February 22, 2016:

NameAgeTitleBernardo Hees46Chief Executive OfficerPaulo Basilio41Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMatt Hill45Zone President of EuropeEmin Mammadov39Zone President of Russia, India and Middle East, Turkey & AfricaEduardo Pelleissone42Executive Vice President of Global OperationsCarlos Piani42Zone President of CanadaMarcos Romaneiro32Zone President of Asia PacificFrancisco Sa50Zone President of Latin AmericaJames Savina42Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate SecretaryGeorge Zoghbi49Chief Operating Officer of U.S. Commercial business

Bernardo Heesbecame Chief Executive Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger. He had previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Hees served as Chief Executive Officer of Burger King Worldwide Holdings, Inc., a global fast food restaurant chain, from September 2010 to June 2013 and Burger King Worldwide, Inc. from June 2012 to June 2013 and as Chief Executive Officer of América Latina Logística (“ALL”), a logistics company, from January 2005 to September 2010. Mr. Hees has also been a partner at 3G Capital since July 2010.

Paulo Basiliobecame Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer upon the closing of the 2015 Merger. He had previously served as Chief Financial Officer of Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Basilio served as Chief Executive Officer of ALL from September 2010 to June 2012, after having served in various roles at ALL, including Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Analyst. Mr. Basilio has been a partner of 3G Capital since July 2012.

Matt Hillassumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz since June 2013. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Hill was President of Heinz UK & Ireland since April 2012. Mr. Hill joined Heinz in 2010 as Chief Marketing Officer for the UK & Ireland and was subsequently appointed Chief Commercial Officer managing Sales and Marketing. Prior to joining Heinz, Mr. Hill spent 17 years at Unilever, a consumer goods company, in a variety of UK, European and Global marketing and leadership roles.

Emin Mammadovassumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz since June 2013. Previously, Mr. Mammadov was President, Africa & Middle East from March 2013 to June 2013 and Managing Director of Heinz China Sauces from 2010 to March 2013. He also served as Marketing Director and then Commercial Director of Heinz Russia from 2006 to 2010.

Eduardo Pelleissoneassumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz since July 2013. Prior to joining Heinz, Mr. Pelleissone was Chief Executive Officer of ALL from May 2012 to June 2013. Prior










to assuming that role, Mr. Pelleissone had held the roles of Chief Operating Officer from July 2011 to 2012 and Commercial Vice President of the Agriculture Segment at ALL from 2004 to 2011.

Carlos Pianiwas appointed Zone President of Canada on September 1, 2015. Prior to joining Kraft Heinz, Mr. Piani served as Chief Executive Officer of PDG Realty S.A. Empreendimentos e Participacoes, a real estate company, from August 2012 to August 2015. Previously, he served as Co-Head of Private Equity of Vinci Partners, an independent asset management firm, from April 2010 to August 2012 and as Chief Executive Officer of Companhia Energetica do Maranhao, an electricity distribution company, from March 2006 to April 2010.

Marcos Romaneiroassumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz since June 2014. Prior to his appointment as Zone President of Heinz Asia Pacific, Mr. Romaneiro was Senior Vice President, Global Finance at Heinz from June 2013 to May 2014. From January 2012 to May 2013, Mr. Romaneiro was Vice President at 3G Capital and was responsible for sourcing, negotiating and executing private equity transactions. Prior to joining 3G Capital, Mr. Romaneiro worked at Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm, from January 2010 to December 2011. Mr. Romaneiro has also been a partner at 3G Capital since January 2015.

Francisco Saassumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 Merger and had previously held the same role at Heinz after joining in July 2014. Mr. Sa served as Zone President for Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA’s Latin America South business from January 2012 to January 2014 and as Zone President for Central and Eastern Europe from January 2008 to December 2011.

James Savinawas appointed Senior Vice President, Global General Counsel and Corporate Secretary upon the closing of the 2015 Merger. Mr. Savina served as Kraft’s Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer from March 2015 to July 2015, and Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer from February 2013 to March 2015. Prior to joining Kraft in 2013, he served as Executive Director, Global Legal Investigations and Operations of Avon Products, Inc., a global manufacturer of beauty and related products, since April 2010.

George Zoghbiwas appointed Chief Operating Officer of U.S. Commercial business upon the closing of the 2015 Merger. Mr. Zoghbi previously served as Kraft’s Chief Operating Officer since February 2015 and, before that, as Vice Chairman, Operations, R&D, Sales and Strategy since June 2014. He served as Executive Vice President and President, Cheese & Dairy and Exports from February 2013 until June 2014. Mr. Zoghbi served as Executive Vice President and President, Cheese and Dairy from October 1, 2012 to February 2013. Prior to that, he served as President, Cheese and Dairy of Mondelēz International, a global food and beverage company, since October 2009.



Available Information

Our website address iswww.kraftheinzcompany.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are available free of charge on our website as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. You can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. In addition, the SEC maintains a website atwww.sec.govthat contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Kraft Heinz, that are electronically filed with the SEC.



