Item 1.Business



General



Mohawk Industries, Inc. (“Mohawk” or the
    “Company”), a term which includes the Company and its
    subsidiaries, including its primary operating subsidiaries,
    Mohawk Carpet, LLC, Dal-Tile Corporation and Unilin BVBA,
    is a leading producer of floor covering products for residential
    and commercial applications in the United States
    (“U.S.”) and residential applications in Europe. The
    Company is the second largest carpet and rug manufacturer and
    one of the largest manufacturers, marketers and distributors of
    ceramic tile, natural stone and hardwood flooring in the U.S.,
    as well as a leading producer of laminate flooring in the
    U.S. and Europe. The Company had annual net sales in 2010
    of $5.3 billion. Approximately 84% of this amount was
    generated by sales in North America and approximately 16% was
    generated by sales outside North America. The Company has three
    reporting segments: the Mohawk segment, the Dal-Tile segment and
    the Unilin segment. Selected financial information for the
    Mohawk, Dal-Tile and Unilin segments, geographic net sales and
    the location of long-lived assets is set forth in note 15
    to the consolidated financial statements.



®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®

®



The Dal-Tile segment designs, manufactures, sources, distributes
    and markets a broad line of ceramic tile, porcelain tile,
    natural stone and other products used in the residential and
    commercial markets for both new construction and remodeling.
    Most of the Dal-Tile segment’s ceramic tile products are
    marketed under the“Dal-Tile®”

    and “American
    Olean®”

    brand names and sold through Company-owned sales service
    centers, independent distributors, home center retailers, tile
    and flooring retailers and contractors. The Dal-Tile segment
    operations are vertically integrated from the production of raw
    material for body and glaze preparation to the manufacturing and
    distribution of ceramic and porcelain tile.



The Unilin segment designs, manufactures, sources, licenses,
    distributes and markets laminate and hardwood flooring used
    primarily in the residential market for both new construction
    and remodeling in Europe and the U.S. Unilin is one of the
    leaders in laminate flooring technology, having commercialized
    direct pressure laminate, or DPL, a technology used in a
    majority of laminates today, and has developed the patented
    UNICLIC®glueless installation system and a variety of other new
    technologies, such as beveled edges, multiple length planks and
    new surface and finish features. Unilin sells its flooring
    products under the
    Quick-Step®,

    Columbia
    Flooring®,

    Century
    Flooring®,

    and Universal
    Flooring®brands through retailers, independent distributors and home
    centers. Unilin is one of the largest vertically-integrated
    laminate flooring manufacturers in the U.S. producing both
    laminate flooring and related high density fiberboard. Unilin
    also produces roofing systems, insulation panels and other wood
    products.



Industry



The U.S. floor covering industry has declined from
    $18.8 billion in sales in 1999 to $17.1 billion in
    2009. In 2009, the primary categories of the U.S. floor
    covering industry, based on sales dollars, were carpet and rug





(55%), resilient and rubber (12%), ceramic tile (11%), hardwood
    (11%), stone (6%) and laminate (5%). Each of these categories
    are influenced by the average selling price per square foot, the
    residential builder and homeowner remodeling markets, housing
    starts and housing resales, average house size and home
    ownership. In addition, the level of sales in the floor covering
    industry, both in the U.S. and Europe, is influenced by
    consumer confidence, spending for durable goods, interest rates
    and availability of credit, turnover in housing, the condition
    of the residential and commercial construction industries and
    the overall strength of the economy. The U.S. floor
    covering industry experienced declining demand beginning in the
    fourth quarter of 2006 that worsened during the latter parts of
    2008, and continued to decline in 2009. In the first half of
    2010 demand showed signs of recovering, but first half gains
    were lost in the second half of the year. Overall industry
    conditions in the U.S. are expected to improve during 2011,
    although the timing and size of a sustained recovery within the
    market remains uncertain.



Domestic carpet and rug sales volume of U.S. manufacturers
    was approximately 1.2 billion square yards, or
    $9.3 billion, in 2009. The carpet and rugs category has two
    primary markets, residential and commercial. In 2009, the
    residential market made up approximately 69% of industry amounts
    shipped and the commercial market comprised approximately 31%.
    Of the total residential market, 73% of the dollar values of
    shipments are made in response to residential replacement demand.



The U.S. ceramic tile industry shipped 1.8 billion
    square feet, or $1.9 billion, in 2009. The ceramic tile
    industry’s two primary markets, residential applications
    and commercial applications, represent 58% and 42% of the 2009
    industry total, respectively. Of the total residential market,
    55% of the dollar values of shipments are made in response to
    residential replacement demand.



In 2009, the U.S. laminate industry shipped
    0.9 billion square feet, or $0.9 billion. The laminate
    industry’s two primary markets, residential applications
    and commercial applications, represent 88% and 12% of the 2009
    industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. laminate
    flooring are primarily distributed through the residential
    replacement market. In 2009, the European laminate industry
    produced approximately 5.0 billion square feet which
    accounted for approximately 15% of the European floor covering
    market.



In 2009, the U.S. stone flooring industry shipped
    0.3 billion square feet, representing a market of
    approximately $1.1 billion. The stone flooring
    industry’s two primary markets, residential applications
    and commercial applications, represent 53% and 47% of the 2009
    industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. stone flooring
    are primarily distributed to the residential market for both new
    construction and residential replacement.



In 2009, the U.S. hardwood industry shipped
    0.8 billion square feet, representing a market of
    approximately $1.8 billion. The hardwood industry’s
    two primary markets, residential applications and commercial
    applications, represent 80% and 20% of the 2009 industry total,
    respectively. Sales of U.S. hardwood are primarily
    distributed to the residential market for both new construction
    and residential replacement.



In 2009, the U.S. resilient and rubber industry shipped
    3.3 billion square feet, representing a market of
    approximately $2.1 billion. The resilient and rubber
    industry’s two primary markets, residential applications
    and commercial applications, represent 46% and 54% of the 2009
    industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. resilient are
    distributed to the residential market for both new construction
    and residential replacement.



Sales and
    Distribution



Mohawk
    Segment



Through its Mohawk segment, the Company designs, manufactures,
    distributes and markets thousands of styles of carpet and rugs
    in a broad range of colors, textures and patterns. In addition,
    the Mohawk segment markets and distributes ceramic tile,
    laminate, hardwood, resilient floor covering, carpet pad and
    flooring accessories. The Mohawk segment positions product lines
    in all price ranges and emphasizes quality, style, performance
    and service. The Mohawk segment markets and distributes its soft
    and hard surface product lines to over 24,000 customers, which
    include independent floor covering retailers, home centers, mass
    merchandisers, department stores, commercial dealers and
    commercial end users. Some products are also marketed





through private labeling programs. Sales to residential
    customers represent a significant portion of the total industry
    and the majority of the Company’s carpet and rug sales.



The Company has positioned its premier residential carpet and
    rug brand names across all price ranges. Mohawk, Horizon,
    “WundaWeve®,”

    and Karastan are positioned to sell primarily in themedium-to-highretail price channels in the residential broadloom and rug
    markets. These lines have substantial brand name recognition
    among carpet dealers and retailers, with the Karastan and Mohawk
    brands having among the highest consumer recognition in the
    industry. Karastan is a leader in the high-end market. The
    Aladdin and Mohawk Home brand names compete primarily in the
    value retail price channel. The Portico and
    “Properties®”

    brand names compete primarily in the builder and multi-family
    markets, respectively. The Company markets its hard surface
    product lines, which include Mohawk Ceramic, Mohawk Hardwood,
    Mohawk Laminate and Congoleum across all price ranges.



The Company offers marketing and advertising support through
    dealer programs like Mohawk Floorscapes, Mohawk ColorCenter, and
    Karastan. These programs offer varying degrees of support to
    dealers in the form of sales and management training, in-store
    merchandising systems, exclusive promotions and assistance in
    certain administrative functions, such as consumer credit,
    advertising and website technology.



The commercial customer base is divided into several channels:
    corporate office space, education institutions, healthcare
    facilities, retail space, public space and institutional and
    government facilities. Different purchase decision makers and
    decision-making processes exist for each channel. The Company
    produces and markets its commercial broadloom and modular carpet
    tile under The Mohawk Group brand which includes these brand
    collections: Bigelow, Lees, and “Karastan
    Contract®.”

    It markets its hospitality carpet under the Durkan brand which
    includes the Merit collection of hospitality carpet.



The Company’s sales forces are generally organized by
    product type and sales channels in order to best serve each type
    of customer. Product delivery to dealers is done predominantly
    on Mohawk trucks operating from strategically positioned
    warehouses/cross-docks that receive inbound product directly
    from the source of manufacture.



Dal-Tile
    Segment



The Dal-Tile segment designs, manufactures, distributes and
    markets a broad line of ceramic tile, porcelain tile and natural
    stone products. Products are distributed through separate
    distribution channels consisting of retailers, contractors,
    commercial users, independent distributors and home centers. The
    business is organized to address the specific customer needs of
    each distribution channel, and dedicated sales forces support
    the various channels.



The Company serves as a “one-stop” source that
    provides customers with one of the ceramic tile industry’s
    broadest product lines — a complete selection of
    glazed floor tile, glazed wall tile, glazed and unglazed ceramic
    mosaic tile, porcelain tile, quarry tile and stone products, as
    well as installation products. In addition to products
    manufactured by the Company’s ceramic tile business, the
    Company also sources products from other manufacturers to
    enhance its product offering.



The Company has two of the leading brand names in the
    U.S. ceramic tile industry— Dal-Tile and American
    Olean. The Dal-Tile and American Olean brand names date back
    over 50 years and are well recognized in the industry. Both
    of these brands are supported by a fully integrated marketing
    program, displays, merchandising boards, literature/catalogs and
    internet websites.



A network of Company-owned sales service centers distributes
    primarily the Dal-Tile brand product with a fully integrated
    marketing program, emphasizing a focus on quality and fashion
    serving customers in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The sales
    service centers provide distribution points for customerpick-up,local delivery and showrooms to assist customers. In addition,
    the Dal-Tile brand is distributed through independent
    distributors in Mexico. The American Olean brand is primarily
    distributed through independent distributors and Company-owned
    sales service centers that service a variety of residential and
    commercial customers. The Company is focused on sales growth
    opportunities through innovative products and programs in both
    the residential and commercial channels.





The Company uses regional distribution centers to help deliver
    high-quality customer service by focusing on shorter lead times,
    increased order fill rates and improved on-time deliveries to
    customers.



Unilin
    Segment



The Unilin segment designs, manufactures, sources, licenses,
    distributes and markets laminate and hardwood flooring. It also
    designs and manufactures roofing systems, insulation panels and
    other wood products in Europe. Products are distributed through
    separate distribution channels consisting of retailers,
    independent distributors and home centers. Unilin
    U.S. operations also manufacture Mohawk branded laminate
    and hardwood flooring, which sells through the Mohawk channel.
    The majority of Unilin’s laminate sales, both in the
    U.S. and Europe, are for residential replacement. The
    business is organized to address the specific customer needs of
    each distribution channel.



The Unilin segment markets and sells laminate and hardwood
    flooring products under the Quick-Step, Columbia Flooring,
    Century Flooring, and Universal Flooring brands. In addition,
    Unilin also sells laminate and hardwood flooring products under
    private label. The Company believes Quick-Step is one of the
    leading brand names in the U.S. and European flooring
    industry.



In the U.S., Europe and Asia the Company uses regional
    distribution centers and direct shipping from manufacturing
    facilities to help deliver high-quality customer service and
    also enhance the Company’s ability to plan and schedule
    production and manage inventory requirements.



Advertising
    and Promotion



The Company promotes its brands through advertising in
    television, print, social and internet media as well as in the
    form of cooperative advertising,point-of-saledisplays, advertising and sponsorship of a cycling team, and
    marketing literature provided to assist in marketing various
    flooring styles. The Company also continues to rely on the
    substantial brand name recognition of its product lines. The
    cost of producing display samples, a significant promotional
    expense, is partially offset by sales of samples to customers.



Manufacturing
    and Operations



Mohawk
    Segment



The Company’s carpet and rug manufacturing operations are
    vertically integrated and include the extrusion of resin and
    post-consumer plastics into polypropylene, polyester, nylon and
    triexta fiber, yarn processing, backing manufacturing, tufting,
    weaving, dyeing, coating and finishing. Over the past three
    years, the Mohawk Segment has invested in capital expenditures,
    principally instate-of-the-artequipment, to increase manufacturing efficiency, improve overall
    cost competitiveness and develop new capabilities.



Dal-Tile
    Segment



The Company’s tile manufacturing operations are vertically
    integrated from the production of raw material for body and
    glaze preparation to the manufacturing and distribution of
    ceramic and porcelain tile. The Company believes that its
    manufacturing organization offers competitive advantages due to
    its ability to manufacture a differentiated product line
    consisting of one of the industry’s broadest product
    offerings of colors, textures and finishes, as well as the
    industry’s largest offering of trim and angle pieces and
    its ability to utilize the industry’s newest technology. In
    addition, Dal-Tile also imports or sources a portion of its
    product to supplement its product offerings. Over the past three
    years, the Dal-Tile segment has invested in capital
    expenditures, principally instate-of-the-artequipment, to increase manufacturing capacity, improve
    efficiency and develop new capabilities.



Unilin
    Segment



The Company’s laminate flooring manufacturing operations
    are vertically integrated, both in the U.S. and in Europe,
    and include high-density fiberboard (“HDF”)
    production, paper impregnation, short-cycle pressing, cutting
    and milling. The European operations also include resin
    production. Unilin hasstate-of-the-art





equipment that results in competitive manufacturing in terms of
    cost and flexibility. Most of the equipment for the production
    of laminate flooring in Belgium and North Carolina is relatively
    new. In addition, Unilin has significant manufacturing
    capability for both engineered and prefinished solid wood
    flooring for the U.S. and European markets. Over the past
    three years, the Unilin segment has invested in capital
    expenditures, principally in new plants andstate-of-the-artequipment, to increase manufacturing capacity, improve
    efficiency and develop new capabilities.



The manufacturing facilities for other activities in the Unilin
    business (roofing systems, insulation panels and other wood
    products) are all configured for cost-efficient manufacturing
    and production flexibility and are competitive in the European
    market.



Raw
    Materials and Suppliers



Mohawk
    Segment



The principal raw materials used in the production of carpet and
    rugs are nylon, polypropylene, triexta, polyester, wool,
    synthetic backing materials, latex and various dyes and
    chemicals, many of which are petroleum based. Major raw
    materials used in the Company’s manufacturing process are
    available from independent sources, and the Company obtains most
    of its externally purchased fibers and resins principally from
    four major suppliers. Although temporary disruptions of supply
    of carpet raw materials were experienced in 2005 as a result of
    hurricane Katrina, the carpet and rug business has not
    experienced significant shortages of raw materials in recent
    years.



Dal-Tile
    Segment



The principal raw materials used in the production of ceramic
    tile are clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes. The Company
    has entered into a long-term supply agreement for most of its
    talc requirements. In addition, the Company has long-term clay
    mining rights in Kentucky and Mississippi that satisfy nearly
    all of its clay requirements for producing unglazed quarry tile.
    The Company purchases a number of different grades of clay for
    the manufacture of its non-quarry tile. The Company believes
    that there is an adequate supply of all grades of clay and that
    all are readily available from a number of independent sources.
    The Company has two suppliers for its nepheline syenite
    requirements. If these suppliers were unable to satisfy the
    requirements, the Company believes that alternative supply
    arrangements would be available. Glazes are used on a
    significant percentage of manufactured tiles. Glazes consist of
    frit (ground glass), zircon, stains and other materials, with
    frit being the largest ingredient. The Company manufactures
    approximately 74% of its frit requirements.



Unilin
    Segment



The principal raw materials used in producing boards, laminate
    and hardwood flooring are wood, paper, resins, coatings and
    stains. Wood supply is a very fragmented market in Europe. The
    Company has long-standing relationships with numerous suppliers.
    These suppliers provide a wide variety of wood species, varying
    from fresh round wood to several kinds of by-products of
    sawmills and used wood recycled specifically for chipboard
    production, giving the Company a cost-effective and secure
    supply of raw material. In the U.S., the Company has a long-term
    contract with a contiguously located lumber company that
    supplies most of its total needs for HDF board production. The
    supply of various species of hardwoods and hardwood veneers used
    in the production of solid wood and engineered flooring is both
    localized and global.



Major manufacturers supply the papers required in the laminate
    flooring business in both Europe and the U.S. The Company
    processes most of the paper impregnation internally in its
    laminate flooring facilities in Europe and the U.S. In
    Europe, the resins for paper impregnation are manufactured by
    the Company, which permits greater control over the laminate
    flooring manufacturing process, enabling the Company to produce
    higher-quality products. The Company buys the balance of its
    resin requirements from a number of companies. The Company
    believes there are ample sources of supply located within a
    reasonable distance of Unilin’s facilities.





Competition



The principal methods of competition within the floor covering
    industry generally are service, style, quality, price, product
    innovation and technology. In each of the markets, price
    competition and market coverage are particularly important
    because there is limited differentiation among competing product
    lines. The Company’s investments in manufacturing
    equipment, computer systems and distribution network, as well as
    the Company’s marketing strategy, contribute to its ability
    to compete primarily on the basis of performance, quality, style
    and service, rather than just price.



Mohawk
    Segment



The carpet and rug industry is highly competitive. Based on
    industry publications, the top 5 North American carpet and rug
    manufacturers (including their North American and foreign
    divisions) in 2009 had carpet and rug sales in excess of
    $7 billion of the over $9 billion market. The Company
    believes it is the second largest producer of carpets and rugs
    (in terms of sales dollars) in the world based on its 2009 sales.



Dal-Tile
    Segment



The ceramic tile industry is significantly more fragmented than
    the carpet industry. The Company estimates that over 100 tile
    manufacturers, more than half of which are based outside the
    U.S., compete for sales of ceramic tile to customers located in
    the U.S. Although the U.S. ceramic tile industry is
    highly fragmented at both the manufacturing and distribution
    levels, the Company believes it is one of the largest
    manufacturers, distributors and marketers of ceramic tile in the
    U.S. and the world. The Company believes it is
    substantially larger than the next largest competitor and that
    it is the only significant manufacturer with its own North
    American distribution system.



Unilin
    Segment



The Company faces competition in the laminate and hardwood
    flooring channel from a large number of domestic and foreign
    manufacturers. The Company estimates that there are over 100
    wood flooring manufacturers located in various countries. The
    Company believes it is one of the largest manufacturers,
    distributors and marketers of laminate flooring in the world,
    with a focus on high-end products. The Company believes it is
    one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of hardwood
    flooring in the U.S. In addition, the Company believes it
    has a competitive advantage in the laminate flooring channel as
    a result of Unilin’s industry leading design and patented
    technologies, which allows the Company to distinguish its
    laminate and hardwood flooring products in the areas of finish,
    quality, installation and assembly.



Patents
    and Trademarks



Intellectual property is important to the Company’s
    business, and the Company relies on a combination of patent,
    copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect its
    interests.



The Company uses several trademarks that it considers important
    in the marketing of its products, including Aladdin, American
    Olean, Bigelow, Columbia Flooring, Century Flooring, Dal-Tile,
    “Duracolor®,”

    Durkan,
    “Elka®,”

    “Everset
    fibers®,”

    Horizon, Karastan, Lees, Mohawk, “Mohawk
    Greenworks®,”

    Mohawk Home, Portico,
    “PureBond®,”

    Quick-Step,
    “SmartStrand®,”

    “Ultra Performance
    System®,”

    “UNILIN®,”

    UNICLIC, Universal Flooring and
    “Wear-Dated®”.

    These trademarks represent unique innovations that highlight
    competitive advantages and provide differentiation from
    competing brands in the market.



Unilin owns a number of important patent families in Europe and
    the U.S. The most important of these patent families is the
    UNICLIC family, as well as the snap, pretension, clearance and
    beveled edge patent families, which protects Unilin’s
    interlocking laminate flooring panel technology. The patents in
    the UNICLIC family are not expected to expire until 2017.





Sales
    Terms and Major Customers



The Company’s sales terms are substantially the same as
    those generally available throughout the industry. The Company
    generally permits its customers to return products purchased
    from it within specified time periods from the date of sale, if
    the customer is not satisfied with the quality of the product.



During 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 5% of
    total net sales, and the top ten customers accounted for less
    than 20% of the Company’s net sales. The Company believes
    the loss of one major customer would not have a material adverse
    effect on its business.



Employees



As of December 31, 2010, the Company employed approximately
    26,900 persons consisting of approximately 20,500 in the
    U.S., approximately 3,500 in Mexico, approximately 2,100 in
    Europe, approximately 700 in Malaysia and approximately 100 in
    Canada. The majority of the Company’s European and Mexican
    manufacturing employees are members of unions. Most of the
    Company’s U.S. employees are not a party to any
    collective bargaining agreement. Additionally, the Company has
    not experienced any strikes or work stoppages in the U.S.,
    Mexico or Malaysia for over 20 years. The Company believes
    that its relations with its employees are good.



Available
    Information



The Company’s Internet address ishttp://www.mohawkind.com.The Company makes the following reports filed by it available,
    free of charge, on its website under the heading “Investor
    Information”



•annual reports onForm 10-K;•quarterly reports onForm 10-Q;•current reports onForm 8-K; and•amendments to the foregoing reports.



The foregoing reports are made available on the Company’s
    website as soon as practicable after they are filed with, or
    furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”).



