Item 1.Business

General

Mohawk Industries, Inc. (“Mohawk” or the “Company”), a term which includes the Company and its subsidiaries, including
its primary operating subsidiaries, Mohawk Carpet, LLC, Dal-Tile Corporation and Unilin BVBA, is a leading producer of floor covering products for residential and commercial applications in the United States (“U.S.”) and residential
applications in Europe. The Company is the second largest carpet and rug manufacturer and one of the largest manufacturers, marketers and distributors of ceramic tile, natural stone and hardwood flooring in the U.S., as well as a leading producer of
laminate flooring in the U.S. and Europe. The Company is expanding its international presence through investments in Australia, China, Mexico and Russia. The Company had annual net sales in 2011 of $5.6 billion. Approximately 82% of this amount was
generated by sales in North America and approximately 18% was generated by sales outside North America. The Company has three reporting segments: the Mohawk segment, the Dal-Tile segment and the Unilin segment. Selected financial information for the
Mohawk, Dal-Tile and Unilin segments, geographic net sales and the location of long-lived assets is set forth in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Mohawk segment designs, manufactures, sources, distributes and markets its floor covering product lines, which
include carpets, ceramic tile, laminate, rugs, carpet pad, hardwood and resilient, in a broad range of colors, textures and patterns for residential and commercial applications in both remodeling and new construction. The Mohawk segment markets and
distributes its carpets, rugs, ceramic tile, laminate, hardwood and resilient under various brands. The Mohawk segment positions its products in all price ranges and emphasizes quality, style, performance and service. The Mohawk segment is widely
recognized through its premier brand names, which include Mohawk®, Aladdin®, Mohawk ColorCenters®, Mohawk Floorscapes®, Portico®, Mohawk Home®, Bigelow®, Durkan®, Horizon®, Karastan®, Lees®, Merit®and SmartStrand®. The Mohawk
segment markets and distributes soft and hard surface products through over 24,000 customers, which include independent floor covering retailers, home centers, mass merchandisers, department stores, commercial dealers and commercial end users. Some
products are also marketed through private labeling programs. The Mohawk segment’s soft surface operations are vertically integrated from the extrusion of resin to the manufacturing and distribution of finished carpets and rugs.

The Dal-Tile segment designs, manufactures, sources, distributes and markets a broad line of ceramic tile, porcelain
tile and natural stone products used in the residential and commercial markets for both remodeling and new construction. In addition, Dal-Tile sources, markets and distributes other tile related products. Most of the Dal-Tile segment’s ceramic
tile products are marketed under the Dal-Tile®and American Olean®brand names and sold through independent distributors, home center retailers, individual floor covering retailers,
ceramic specialists, commercial dealers and commercial end users. The Dal-Tile segment operations are vertically integrated from the production of raw material for body and glaze preparation to the manufacturing and distribution of ceramic and
porcelain tile.

The Unilin segment designs, manufactures, sources, licenses, distributes and markets
laminate and hardwood flooring used primarily in the residential market for both remodeling and new construction in Europe and the U.S. Unilin is one of the leaders in laminate flooring technology, having commercialized direct pressure laminate
(“DPL”), a technology used in a majority of laminates today, and has developed the patented UNICLIC®glueless installation system and a variety of other new technologies, such as beveled edges, multiple length planks and new surface and finish features from which the company generates licensing revenue. Unilin sells its flooring products under the
Quick-Step®, Columbia Flooring®, Century Flooring®and Mohawk
brands through retailers, independent distributors and home centers. Unilin is one of the largest vertically-integrated laminate flooring manufacturers in the U.S. producing both laminate flooring and related high density fiberboard. In Europe,
Unilin also produces roofing systems, insulation panels and other wood products. In 2011, Unilin began test marketing its
Didit®click furniture line, a collection that can be assembled without any tools, in the United Kingdom with
plans to introduce it to other geographic markets in the future.







Index to Financial Statements

Industry

In 2010, the primary categories of the U.S. floor covering industry, based on sales dollars, were carpet and rug (55%), resilient and rubber (13%), ceramic tile (12%), hardwood (9%), stone (6%) and
laminate (5%). Each of these categories is influenced by the average selling price per square foot, the residential builder and homeowner remodeling markets, housing starts and housing resales, average house size and home ownership. In addition, the
level of sales in the floor covering industry, both in the U.S. and Europe, is influenced by consumer confidence, spending for durable goods, interest rates and availability of credit, turnover in housing, the condition of the residential and
commercial construction industries and the overall strength of the economy.

The U.S. floor covering industry experienced
declining demand beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006 with sales declining from $25.7 billion in 2006 to $17.1 billion in 2010. Industry conditions have remained difficult due to many factors, including uncertainty caused by economic
conditions in the U.S., the European debt crisis, material price volatility, unemployment and consumer confidence, all of which have created headwinds to industry growth.

Domestic carpet and rug sales volume of U.S. manufacturers was approximately 1.2 billion square yards, or $9.4 billion, in 2010. The carpet and rugs category has two primary markets, residential and
commercial. In 2010, the residential market made up approximately 68% of industry amounts shipped and the commercial market comprised approximately 32%. Sales of U.S. carpet and rug are distributed to the residential market for both new construction
and residential replacement.

The U.S. ceramic tile industry shipped 2.0 billion square feet, or $2.0 billion, in 2010. The
ceramic tile industry’s two primary markets, residential applications and commercial applications, represent 57% and 43% of the 2010 industry total, respectively. Of the total residential market, 69% of the dollar values of shipments were made
in response to residential replacement demand.

In 2010, the U.S. laminate industry shipped 1.0 billion square feet, or $0.9
billion. The laminate industry’s two primary markets, residential applications and commercial applications, represent 95% and 5% of the 2010 industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. laminate flooring are primarily distributed through the
residential replacement market. In 2010, the European laminate industry produced approximately 4.4 billion square feet which accounted for approximately 13% of the European floor covering market.

In 2010, the U.S. hardwood industry shipped 0.8 billion square feet, representing a market of approximately $1.6 billion. The hardwood
industry’s two primary markets, residential applications and commercial applications, represent 81% and 19% of the 2010 industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. hardwood are primarily distributed to the residential market for both new
construction and residential replacement.

In 2010, the U.S. stone flooring industry shipped 0.3 billion square feet,
representing a market of approximately $1.1 billion. The stone flooring industry’s two primary markets, residential applications and commercial applications, represent 54% and 46% of the 2010 industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. stone
flooring are primarily distributed to the residential market for both new construction and residential replacement.

In 2010,
the U.S. resilient and rubber industry shipped 3.1 billion square feet, representing a market of approximately $2.2 billion. The resilient and rubber industry’s two primary markets, residential applications and commercial applications,
represent 44% and 56% of the 2010 industry total, respectively. Sales of U.S. resilient are distributed to the residential market for both new construction and residential replacement.

Sales and Distribution

Mohawk Segment

Through its Mohawk segment, the Company designs, manufactures, sources, distributes and markets thousands of styles of carpet and rugs in
a broad range of colors, textures and patterns. In addition, the Mohawk







Index to Financial Statements

segment markets and distributes ceramic tile, laminate, hardwood, resilient floor covering, carpet pad and flooring accessories. The Mohawk segment positions product lines in all price ranges and
emphasizes quality, style, performance and service. The Mohawk segment markets and distributes its product lines to over 24,000 customers, which include independent floor covering retailers, home centers, mass merchandisers, department stores,
commercial dealers and commercial end users. Some products are also marketed through private labeling programs. Sales to residential customers represent a significant portion of the total industry and the majority of the segments’ carpet and
rug sales.

The Company has positioned its premier residential carpet and rug brand names across all price
ranges. The Mohawk, Horizon, WundaWeve®, Smart Strand®and Karastan brands are positioned to sell primarily in the medium-to-high retail price channels in the residential broadloom and rug markets. These lines have
substantial brand name recognition among carpet dealers and retailers, with the Karastan and Mohawk brands having among the highest consumer recognition in the industry. Karastan is a leader in the high-end market. The Aladdin and Mohawk Home brands
compete primarily in the value retail price channel. The Portico and Properties®brand names compete primarily
in the builder and multi-family markets, respectively. The Company markets its hard surface product lines, which include Mohawk Ceramic, Mohawk Hardwood, Mohawk Laminate and Congoleum, across all price ranges.

The Company offers marketing and advertising support through residential dealer programs like Mohawk Floorscapes, Mohawk ColorCenter, and
Karastan. These programs offer varying degrees of support to dealers in the form of sales and management training, in-store merchandising systems, exclusive promotions and assistance in certain administrative functions, such as consumer credit,
advertising and website technology.

The Company produces and markets its commercial broadloom and modular
carpet tile under The Mohawk Group which includes the following brands: Bigelow, Lees, and Karastan Contract®.
It markets its hospitality carpet under the Durkan brand which includes the Merit collection of hospitality carpet. The commercial customer base is divided into several channels: corporate office space, education institutions, healthcare facilities,
retail space and institutional and government facilities. Different purchase decision makers and decision-making processes exist for each channel.

The Company’s sales forces are generally organized by product type and sales channels in order to best serve each type of customer. Product delivery to dealers is done predominantly on Mohawk trucks
operating from strategically positioned warehouses/cross-docks that receive inbound product directly from the source of manufacture.

Dal-Tile Segment

The Dal-Tile segment designs, manufactures, sources,
distributes and markets a broad line of ceramic tile, porcelain tile and natural stone products. Products are distributed through separate distribution channels consisting of independent distributors, home center retailers, individual floor covering
retailers, ceramic specialists, commercial dealers and commercial end users. The business is organized to address the specific customer needs of each distribution channel, and dedicated sales forces support the various channels.

The Company serves as a “one-stop” source that provides customers with one of the ceramic tile industry’s broadest product
lines—a complete selection of glazed floor tile, glazed wall tile, glazed and unglazed ceramic mosaic tile, porcelain tile, quarry tile and stone products, as well as installation products. In addition to products manufactured by the
Company’s ceramic tile business, the Company also sources products from other manufacturers to enhance its product offering.

The Company has two of the leading brand names in the U.S. ceramic tile industry—Dal-Tile and American Olean. The Dal-Tile and American Olean brand names date back over 50 years and are well
recognized in the industry. Both of these brands are supported by a fully integrated marketing program, displays, merchandising boards, literature/catalogs and internet websites. The Company is focused on sales growth opportunities through
innovative products and programs in both the residential and commercial channels.







Index to Financial Statements

A network of Company-owned service centers distributes primarily the Dal-Tile brand product
with a fully integrated marketing program, emphasizing a focus on quality and fashion serving customers in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The service centers provide distribution points for customer pick-up, local delivery and showrooms for
product selection and design assistance. In addition, the Dal-Tile brand is distributed through independent distributors in Mexico. The American Olean brand is primarily distributed through independent distributors and Company-owned service centers
that service both residential and commercial customers.

In addition to Company-owned service centers, the Company uses
regional distribution centers which includes the utilization of the Company’s truck fleet to help deliver high-quality customer service with shorter lead times, increased order fill rates and improved on-time deliveries to customers.

Unilin Segment

The Unilin segment designs, manufactures, licenses, distributes and markets laminate and hardwood flooring. It also designs and manufactures roofing systems, insulation panels and other wood products in
Europe. Products are distributed through separate distribution channels consisting of retailers, independent distributors and home centers. Unilin U.S. operations also manufacture Mohawk branded laminate and hardwood flooring, which sells through
the Mohawk channel and also directly through home centers and mass merchandisers. The majority of Unilin’s laminate sales, both in the U.S. and Europe, are for residential replacement. The business is organized to address the specific customer
needs of each distribution channel.

The Unilin segment markets and sells laminate and hardwood flooring products under the
Quick-Step, Columbia Flooring, Century Flooring and Mohawk brands. Unilin also sells private label laminate and hardwood flooring products. The Company believes Quick-Step is one of the leading brand names in the U.S. and European flooring industry.
In addition, Unilin markets and sells insulation panels in Europe. The segment also licenses its UNICLIC intellectual property to floor manufacturers throughout the world.

In the U.S., Europe and Asia, the Company uses regional distribution centers and direct shipping from manufacturing facilities to provide high-quality customer service and enhance the Company’s
ability to plan and manage inventory requirements.

Advertising and Promotion

The Company promotes its brands through advertising in television, print, social and internet media, as well as cooperative advertising,
point-of-sale displays, sponsorship of a European cycling team and marketing literature. The Company also continues to rely on the substantial brand name recognition of its product lines. The cost of point-of-sale displays and product samples, a
significant promotional expense, is partially offset by sales of samples to customers.

Manufacturing and Operations

Mohawk Segment

The Company’s carpet and rug manufacturing operations are vertically integrated and include the extrusion of resin and post-consumer plastics into triexta fiber, polyester, nylon and polypropylene,
and yarn processing, backing manufacturing, tufting, weaving, dyeing, coating and finishing. The Mohawk segment continues to invest in capital expenditures, principally in state-of-the-art equipment, to increase manufacturing efficiency, improve
overall cost competitiveness and develop new capabilities.

Dal-Tile Segment

The Company’s tile manufacturing operations are vertically integrated from the production of raw material for body and glaze
preparation to the manufacturing and distribution of ceramic and porcelain tile in the U.S. and







Index to Financial Statements

Mexico. The Company believes that its manufacturing organization offers competitive advantages due to its ability to manufacture a differentiated product line consisting of one of the
industry’s broadest product offerings of colors, textures and finishes and its ability to utilize the industry’s newest technology, as well as the industry’s largest offering of trim and angle pieces. In addition, Dal-Tile also
imports or sources a portion of its product to supplement its product offerings. The Dal-Tile segment continues to invest in capital expenditures, principally in state-of-the-art equipment, to increase manufacturing capacity, improve efficiency and
develop new capabilities. The segment is expanding its international presence through investments in China and Mexico.

Unilin Segment

The Company’s laminate flooring manufacturing operations are vertically integrated, both in the U.S. and in Europe, and include high-density fiberboard (“HDF”) production, paper
impregnation, short-cycle pressing, cutting and milling. The European operations also include resin production. Unilin has state-of-the-art equipment that results in competitive manufacturing in terms of cost and flexibility. In addition, Unilin has
significant manufacturing capability for both engineered and prefinished solid wood flooring for the U.S. and European markets. The Unilin segment continues to invest in capital expenditures, principally in new plants and state-of-the-art equipment,
to increase manufacturing capacity, improve efficiency and develop new capabilities. The segment is expanding its international presence through investments in Australia and Russia. The manufacturing facilities for other activities in the Unilin
business (roofing systems, insulation panels and other wood products) are all configured for cost-efficient manufacturing and production flexibility and are competitive in the European market.

Raw Materials and Suppliers

Mohawk Segment

The principal raw materials used in the production of
carpet and rugs are nylon, triexta, polyester, polypropylene, synthetic backing materials, latex and various dyes and chemicals, all of which are petroleum based. Major raw materials used in the Company’s manufacturing process are available
from independent sources, and the Company obtains most of its externally purchased fibers and resins principally from four major suppliers. If these suppliers were unable to satisfy the requirements, the Company believes that alternative supply
arrangements would be available. Although the market for carpet raw materials is sensitive to temporary disruptions, the carpet and rug business has not experienced a significant shortage of raw materials in recent years.

Dal-Tile Segment

The principal raw materials used in the production of ceramic tile are clay, talc, nepheline syenite and glazes. The Company has entered into a long-term supply agreement for most of its talc
requirements. In addition, the Company has long-term clay mining rights in Kentucky and Mississippi that satisfy nearly all of its clay requirements for producing unglazed quarry tile. The Company purchases a number of different grades of clay for
the manufacture of its non-quarry tile. The Company believes that there is an adequate supply of all grades of clay and that all are readily available from a number of independent sources. The Company has two suppliers for its nepheline syenite
requirements. If these suppliers were unable to satisfy the requirements, the Company believes that alternative supply arrangements would be available. Glazes are used on a significant percentage of manufactured tiles. Glazes consist of frit (ground
glass), zircon, stains and other materials, with frit being the largest ingredient. The Company manufactures approximately 75% of its frit requirements.

Unilin Segment

The principal raw materials used in producing boards,
laminate and hardwood flooring are wood, paper, resins, coatings and stains. Wood supply is a very fragmented market in Europe. The Company has long-standing relationships with numerous suppliers. These suppliers provide a wide variety of wood
species, varying from







Index to Financial Statements

fresh round wood to several kinds of by-products of sawmills and used wood recycled specifically for chipboard production, giving the Company a cost-effective and secure supply of raw material.
In the U.S., the Company has a long-term contract with a contiguously located lumber company that supplies most of its total needs for HDF board production. The supply of various species of hardwoods and hardwood veneers used in the production of
solid wood and engineered flooring is both localized and global.

Major manufacturers supply the papers required in the
laminate flooring business in both Europe and the U.S. The Company processes most of the paper impregnation internally in its laminate flooring facilities in Europe and the U.S. In Europe, the resins for paper impregnation are manufactured by the
Company, which permits greater control over the laminate flooring manufacturing process, enabling the Company to produce higher-quality products. The Company buys the balance of its resin requirements from a number of companies. The Company believes
there are ample sources of supply located within a reasonable distance of Unilin’s facilities.

Competition

The principal methods of competition within the floor covering industry generally are service, style, quality, price, product innovation
and technology. In each of the markets, price competition and market coverage are particularly important because there is limited differentiation among competing product lines. The Company’s investments in manufacturing equipment, computer
systems and distribution network, as well as the Company’s marketing strategy, contribute to its ability to compete primarily on the basis of performance, quality, style and service, rather than just price.

Mohawk Segment

The carpet and rug industry is highly competitive. Based on industry publications, the top five North American carpet and rug manufacturers (including their North American and foreign divisions) in 2010
had carpet and rug sales in excess of $7.0 billion of the over $9.4 billion market. The Company believes it is the second largest producer of carpets and rugs (in terms of sales dollars) in the world based on its 2010 net sales.

Dal-Tile Segment

The ceramic tile industry is significantly more fragmented than the carpet industry. The Company estimates that over 100 tile manufacturers, more than half of which are based outside the U.S., compete for
sales of ceramic tile to customers located in the U.S. Although the U.S. ceramic tile industry is highly fragmented at both the manufacturing and distribution levels, the Company believes it is one of the largest manufacturers, distributors and
marketers of ceramic tile in the world. The Company believes it is substantially larger than the next largest competitor in the United States and that it is the only significant manufacturer with its own North American distribution system.

Unilin Segment

The Company faces competition in the laminate and hardwood flooring channel from a large number of domestic and foreign manufacturers. The Company estimates that there are over 100 wood flooring
manufacturers located in various countries. The Company believes it is one of the largest manufacturers, distributors and licensors of laminate flooring in the world, with a focus on high-end products. The Company believes it is one of the largest
manufacturers and distributors of hardwood flooring in the U.S. In addition, the Company believes it has a competitive advantage in the laminate flooring channel as a result of Unilin’s industry leading design and patented technologies, which
allows the Company to distinguish its laminate and hardwood flooring products in the areas of finish, quality, installation and assembly and provides a source of additional revenue for the Company from licensing royalties.







Index to Financial Statements

Patents and Trademarks

Intellectual property is important to the Company’s business, and the Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect its interests.

The Company uses several trademarks that it considers important in the marketing of its products, including Aladdin,
American Olean, Bigelow, Columbia Flooring, Century Flooring, Dal-Tile, Duracolor®, Durkan, Elka®, Everset fibers®, Horizon, Karastan, Lees, Merit, Mohawk, Mohawk ColorCenters, Mohawk Floorscapes, Mohawk Greenworks®, Mohawk Home, Portico,
PureBond®, Quick-Step, SmartStrand, Ultra Performance System®, UNILIN®, UNICLIC, Didit,
Utherm®and Wear-Dated®. These trademarks represent unique innovations that highlight competitive advantages and provide differentiation from competing brands in the market.

Unilin owns a number of important patent families in Europe and the U.S., some of which the Company licenses to manufacturers and
distributors throughout the world. The most important of these patent families is the UNICLIC family, including the snap, pretension, clearance and the beveled edge patent families, which protect Unilin’s interlocking laminate flooring panel
technology. The patents in the UNICLIC family are not expected to expire until 2017.

Sales Terms and Major Customers

The Company’s sales terms are substantially the same as those generally available throughout the industry. The Company generally
permits its customers to return products purchased from it within specified time periods from the date of sale, if the customer is not satisfied with the quality of the product.

During 2011, no single customer accounted for more than 5% of total net sales, and the top 10 customers accounted for less than 20% of
the Company’s net sales. The Company believes the loss of one major customer would not have a material adverse effect on its business.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, the Company employed approximately 26,200 persons consisting of approximately 19,400 in the U.S., approximately 3,600 in Mexico, approximately 2,200 in Europe, approximately 800 in Malaysia, approximately 100 in Canada and
approximately 100 in Russia. The majority of the Company’s European and Mexican manufacturing employees are members of unions. Most of the Company’s U.S. employees are not a party to any collective bargaining agreement. Additionally, the
Company has not experienced any strikes or work stoppages in recent years. The Company believes that its relations with its employees are good.

Available Information

The Company’s Internet address is http://www.mohawkind.com. The Company makes the following reports filed by it available, free of
charge, on its website under the heading “Investor Information”:



•annual reports on Form 10-K;



•quarterly reports on Form 10-Q;



•current reports on Form 8-K; and



•amendments to the foregoing reports.

The foregoing reports are made available on the Company’s website as soon as practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).







Index to Financial Statements

