Items 1. and 2.Business and Properties



General



In 1995, DTE Energy incorporated in the State of Michigan. Our
    utility operations consist primarily of Detroit Edison and
    MichCon. We also have four other segments that are engaged in a
    variety of energy-related businesses.



Detroit Edison is a Michigan corporation organized in 1903 and
    is a public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC and the
    FERC. Detroit Edison is engaged in the generation, purchase,
    distribution and sale of electricity to approximately
    2.1 million customers in southeastern Michigan.



MichCon is a Michigan corporation organized in 1898 and is a
    public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC. MichCon is
    engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, gathering,
    distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately
    1.2 million customers throughout Michigan and the sale of
    storage and transportation capacity.



Our other segments are involved in 1) natural gas storage
    and pipelines; 2) unconventional gas and oil project
    development and production; 3) power and industrial
    projects; and 4) energy marketing and trading operations.



Our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,proxy statements, and all amendments to such reports are
    available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of
    our website:www.dteenergy.com, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our previously filed
    reports and statements are also available at the SEC’s
    website:www.sec.gov.



The Company’s Code of Ethics and Standards of Behavior,
    Board of Directors’ Mission and Guidelines, Board Committee
    Charters, and Categorical Standards of Director Independence are
    also posted on its website. The information on the
    Company’s website is not part of this or any other report
    that the Company files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.



Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials the
    Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
    Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
    proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



References in this Report to “we,” “us,”
    “our,” “Company” or “DTE” are to
    DTE Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively.



Corporate
    Structure



Based on the following structure, we set strategic goals,
    allocate resources, and evaluate performance. See Note 24
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8
    of this Report for financial information by segment for the last
    three years.



Electric
    Utility



•The Company’s Electric Utility segment consists of Detroit
    Edison, which is engaged in the generation, purchase,
    distribution and sale of electricity to approximately
    2.1 million residential, commercial and industrial
    customers in southeastern Michigan.



Gas
    Utility



•The Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens.
    MichCon is engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation,
    gathering, distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately
    1.2 million residential, commercial and industrial
    customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and
    transportation capacity. Citizens distributes natural gas in
    Adrian, Michigan to approximately 17,000 customers.







Non-Utility
    Operations



•Gas Storage and Pipelines consists of natural gas storage and
    pipelines businesses.•Unconventional Gas Production is engaged in unconventional gas
    and oil project development and production.•Power and Industrial Projects is comprised of coke batteries and
    pulverized coal projects, reduced emission fuel and steel
    industry fuel-related projects,on-siteenergy services, renewable power generation, landfill gas
    recovery and coal transportation, marketing and trading.•Energy Trading consists of energy marketing and trading
    operations.



Corporate & Other, includes various holding
    company activities, holds certain non-utility debt andenergy-relatedinvestments.







Refer to our Management’s Discussion and Analysis in
    Item 7 of this Report for an in-depth analysis of each
    segment’s financial results. A description of each business
    unit follows.



ELECTRIC
    UTILITY



Description



Our Electric Utility segment consists of Detroit Edison. Our
    generating plants are regulated by numerous federal and state
    governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC,
    the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and the MDNRE. Electricity is
    generated from our several fossil plants, a hydroelectric pumped
    storage plant and a nuclear plant, and is purchased from
    electricity generators, suppliers and wholesalers. The
    electricity we produce and purchase is sold to three major
    classes of customers: residential, commercial and industrial,
    principally throughout southeastern Michigan.



Revenue
    by Service



201020092008(In millions)Residential$2,052$1,820$1,726Commercial1,6291,7021,753Industrial688730894Other479299289Subtotal4,8484,5514,662Interconnection sales(1)145163212Total Revenue$4,993$4,714$4,874









(1)Represents power that is not distributed by Detroit Edison.







Weather, economic factors, competition and electricity prices
    affect sales levels to customers. Our peak load and highest
    total system sales generally occur during the third quarter of
    the year, driven by air conditioning and other cooling-related
    demands. Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number
    of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would
    not have a material adverse effect on Detroit Edison.



Fuel
    Supply and Purchased Power





Detroit Edison participates in the energy market through MISO.
    We offer our generation in the market on a day-ahead, real-time
    and FTR basis and bid for power in the market to serve our load.
    We are a net purchaser of power that supplements our generation
    capability to meet customer demand during peak cycles.



In 2008, a renewable portfolio standard was established for
    Michigan electric providers targeting 10% of electricity sold to
    retail customers from renewable energy by 2015. Detroit Edison
    has approximately 251 MW of renewable energy under contract
    at December 31, 2010 representing approximately 4% of
    electricity sold to retail customers. Approximately 40 MW
    is in commercial operation at December 31, 2010 with an
    additional 211 MW expected in commercial operation in 2011
    or early 2012.

