Items 1. and 2.Business and Properties



General

In 1995, DTE Energy incorporated in the State of Michigan.  Our utility operations consist primarily of Detroit Edison and MichCon.  We also have four other segments that are engaged in a variety of energy-related businesses.

Detroit Edison is a Michigan corporation organized in 1903 and is a public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC and the FERC.  Detroit Edison is engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 2.1 million customers in southeastern Michigan.

MichCon is a Michigan corporation organized in 1898 and is a public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC.  MichCon is engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately 1.2 million customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.

Our other businesses are involved in 1) natural gas pipelines, gathering and storage; 2) unconventional gas and oil project development and production; 3) power and industrial projects and coal transportation and marketing; and 4) energy marketing and trading operations.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and all amendments to such reports are available free of charge through the Investors - Reports and Filings page of our website:www.dteenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Our previously filed reports and statements are also available at the SEC’s website:www.sec.gov.

The Company’s Code of Ethics and Standards of Behavior, Board of Directors’ Mission and Guidelines, Board Committee Charters, and Categorical Standards of Director Independence are also posted on its website.  The information on the Company’s website is not part of this or any other report that the Company files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.

Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.

References in this Report to “we,” “us,” “our,” “Company” or “DTE” are to DTE Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively.

Corporate Structure

Based on the following structure, we set strategic goals, allocate resources, and evaluate performance.  See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for financial information by segment for the last three years.

Electric Utility

•The Electric Utility segment consists principally of Detroit Edison, which is engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 2.1 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in southeastern Michigan.

Gas Utility

•The Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens. MichCon is engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately 1.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity. Citizens distributes natural gas in Adrian, Michigan to approximately 17,000 customers.

Non-Utility Operations

•Gas Storage and Pipelines consists of natural gas pipelines, gathering and storage businesses.

•Unconventional Gas Production is engaged in unconventional gas and oil project development and production.

•Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects that deliver energy and utility-type products and services to industrial, commercial and institutional customers; provide coal transportation and marketing; and sell









electricity from biomass-fired energy projects.

•Energy Trading consists of energy marketing and trading operations.

Corporate and Other, includes various holding company activities, holds certain non-utility debt and energy-related investments.



Refer to our Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report for an in-depth analysis of each segment’s financial results. A description of each business unit follows.

ELECTRIC UTILITY

Description

Our Electric Utility segment consists principally of Detroit Edison. Our generating plants are regulated by numerous federal and state governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC, the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and the MDEQ.  Electricity is generated from our fossil-fuel plants, a hydroelectric pumped storage plant and a nuclear plant, and is purchased from electricity generators, suppliers and wholesalers.  The electricity we produce and purchase is sold to three major classes of customers: residential, commercial and industrial, principally throughout southeastern Michigan.

Revenue by Service

201120102009(In millions)Residential$2,182$2,052$1,820Commercial1,7041,6291,702Industrial692688730Other458479299Subtotal5,0364,8484,551Interconnection sales (1)118145163Total Revenue$5,154$4,993$4,714

_______________________________________

(1)Represents power that is not distributed by Detroit Edison.

Weather, economic factors, competition and electricity prices affect sales levels to customers. Our peak load and highest total system sales generally occur during the third quarter of the year, driven by air conditioning and other cooling-related demands.  Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not have a material adverse effect on Detroit Edison.

Fuel Supply and Purchased Power

Our power is generated from a variety of fuels and is supplemented with purchased power.  We expect to have an adequate supply of fuel and purchased power to meet our obligation to serve customers.  Our generating capability is heavily dependent upon the availability of coal.  Coal is purchased from various sources in different geographic areas under agreements that vary in both pricing and terms.  We expect to obtain the majority of our coal requirements through long-term contracts,









with the balance to be obtained through short-term agreements and spot purchases.  We have long-term and short term contracts for the purchase of approximately 29 million tons of low-sulfur western coal to be delivered from 2012 through 2014 and approximately 6 million tons of Appalachian coal to be delivered from 2012 through 2014.  All of these contracts have pricing schedules.  We have approximately 95% of our 2012 expected coal requirements under contract. Given the geographic diversity of supply, we believe we can meet our expected generation requirements.  We lease a fleet of rail cars and have our expected western rail requirements under contract for the next four years.  All of our expected eastern coal rail requirements are under contract through 2012 and approximately 50% of this requirement is under contract in 2013.  Our expected vessel transportation requirements for delivery of purchased coal to our generating facilities are under contract through 2014.

Detroit Edison participates in the energy market through MISO.  We offer our generation in the market on a day-ahead and real-time basis and bid for power in the market to serve our load.  We are a net purchaser of power that supplements our generation capability to meet customer demand during peak cycles.