Items 1. and 2.Business and Properties

General

In 1995, DTE Energy incorporated in the State of Michigan.  DTE Energy's utility operations consist primarily of DTE Electric and DTE Gas.  DTE Energy also has three other segments that are engaged in a variety of energy-related businesses.

DTE Electric is a Michigan corporation organized in 1903 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy.  DTE Electric is a public utility engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately2.2 millioncustomers in southeastern Michigan.

DTE Gas is a Michigan corporation organized in 1898 and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy.  DTE Gas is a public utility engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of natural gas to approximately1.3 millioncustomers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.

DTE Energy's other businesses are involved in 1) natural gas pipelines, gathering, and storage; 2) power and industrial projects; and 3) energy marketing and trading operations.

DTE Electric and DTE Gas are regulated by the MPSC.  Certain activities of DTE Electric and DTE Gas, as well as various other aspects of businesses under DTE Energy are regulated by the FERC.  In addition, the Registrants are regulated by other federal and state regulatory agencies including the NRC, the EPA, the MDEQ, and for DTE Energy, the CFTC.

The Registrants' annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and all amendments to such reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations Reports and Filings page of DTE Energy's website:www.dteenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC.

The DTE Energy Code of Ethics and Standards of Behavior, Board of Directors’ Mission and Guidelines, Board Committee Charters, and Categorical Standards for Director Independence are also posted on the DTE Energy website.  The information on DTE Energy’s website is not part of this report or any other report that DTE Energy files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.

Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials the Registrants file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.

Corporate Structure

DTE Energy sets strategic goals, allocates resources, and evaluates performance based on the following structure.  For financial information by segment for the last three years, seeNote 22to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Segment and Related Information."

Electric

•The Electric segment consists principally of DTE Electric, which is engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately2.2 millionresidential, commercial, and industrial customers in southeastern Michigan.

Gas

•The Gas segment consists principally of DTE Gas, which is engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of natural gas to approximately1.3 millionresidential, commercial, and industrial customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.










Non-utility Operations

•Gas Storage and Pipelines consists of natural gas pipeline, gathering, transportation, and storage businesses.

•Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects that deliver energy and utility-type products and services to industrial, commercial, and institutional customers, produce reduced emissions fuel, and sell electricity from renewable energy projects.

•Energy Trading consists of energy marketing and trading operations.

Corporate and Other

•Corporate and Other includes various holding company activities, holds certain non-utility debt, and holds energy-related investments.



Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report for an in-depth analysis of each segment’s financial results.  A description of each business unit follows.

ELECTRIC

Description

DTE Energy's Electric segment consists principally of DTE Electric, an electric utility engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately2.2 millioncustomers in southeastern Michigan.  DTE Electric is regulated by numerous federal and state governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC, the FERC, the NRC, the EPA, and the MDEQ.  Electricity is generated from fossil-fuel plants, a hydroelectric pumped storage plant, a nuclear plant, wind and other renewable assets and is supplemented with purchased power.  The electricity is sold, or distributed through the retail access program, to three major classes of customers: residential, commercial, and industrial, throughout southeastern Michigan.

Weather, economic factors, competition, energy waste reduction initiatives, and electricity prices affect sales levels to customers.  DTE Electric's peak load and highest total system sales generally occur during the third quarter of the year, driven by air conditioning and other cooling-related demands.  DTE Electric's operations are not dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not have a material adverse effect on the results of DTE Electric.

SeeNote 4to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Report, "Revenue."










Fuel Supply and Purchased Power

DTE Electric's power is generated from a variety of fuels and is supplemented with purchased power.  DTE Electric expects to have an adequate supply of fuel and purchased power to meet its obligation to serve customers.  DTE Electric's generating capability is heavily dependent upon the availability of coal.  Coal is purchased from various sources in different geographic areas under agreements that vary in both pricing and terms.  DTE Electric expects to obtain the majority of its coal requirements through long-term contracts, with the balance to be obtained through short-term agreements and spot purchases.  DTE Electric has long-term and short-term contracts for the purchase of approximately 24 million tons of low-sulfur western coal and approximately 850 thousand tons of Appalachian coal to be delivered from2019to 2022.  All of these contracts have pricing schedules.  DTE Electric has approximately 86% of the expected coal requirements for 2019 under contract.  Given the geographic diversity of supply, DTE Electric believes it can meet its expected generation requirements.  DTE Electric leases a fleet of rail cars and has the expected western and eastern coal rail requirements under contract through 2021.  Contracts covering expected vessel transportation requirements for delivery of purchased coal to electric generating facilities are under contract through 2019.

DTE Electric participates in the energy market through MISO.  DTE Electric offers its generation in the market on a day-ahead and real-time basis and bids for power in the market to serve its load.  DTE Electric is a net purchaser of power that supplements its generation capability to meet customer demand during peak cycles or during major plant outages.






