Items 1. and 2.Business and Properties



General



In 1995, DTE Energy incorporated in the State of Michigan. Our
    utility operations consist primarily of Detroit Edison and
    MichCon. We also have four other segments that are engaged in a
    variety of energy-related businesses.



Detroit Edison is a Michigan corporation organized in 1903 and
    is a public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC and the
    FERC. Detroit Edison is engaged in the generation, purchase,
    distribution and sale of electricity to approximately
    2.1 million customers in southeastern Michigan.



MichCon is a Michigan corporation organized in 1898 and is a
    public utility subject to regulation by the MPSC. MichCon is
    engaged in the purchase, storage, transmission, gathering,
    distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately
    1.2 million customers throughout Michigan.



Our other segments are involved in 1) gas pipelines and
    storage; 2) unconventional gas exploration, development,
    and production; 3) power and industrial projects and coal
    transportation and marketing; and 4) energy marketing and
    trading operations.



Our annual reports onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,proxy statements, and all amendments to such reports are
    available free of charge through the Investor Relations page of
    our website:www.dteenergy.com, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our previously filed
    reports and statements are also available at the SEC’s
    website:www.sec.gov.



The Company’s Code of Ethics and Standards of Behavior,
    Board of Directors’ Mission and Guidelines, Board Committee
    Charters, and Categorical Standards of Director Independence are
    also posted on its website. The information on the
    Company’s website is not part of this or any other report
    that the Company files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.



Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials the
    Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
    Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information
    on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC
    at1-800-SEC-0330.The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports,
    proxy and information statements, and other information
    regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC atwww.sec.gov.



References in this Report to “we,” “us,”
    “our,” “Company” or “DTE” are to
    DTE Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively.



Corporate
    Structure



Based on the following structure, we set strategic goals,
    allocate resources, and evaluate performance. See Note 24
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8
    of this Report for financial information by segment for the last
    three years.



Electric
    Utility



•The Company’s Electric Utility segment consists of Detroit
    Edison, which is engaged in the generation, purchase,
    distribution and sale of electricity to approximately
    2.1 million residential, commercial and industrial
    customers in southeastern Michigan.



Gas
    Utility



•The Gas Utility segment consists of MichCon and Citizens.
    MichCon is engaged in the purchase, storage, transmission,
    distribution and sale of natural gas to approximately
    1.2 million residential,





commercial and industrial customers throughout Michigan.
    Citizens distributes natural gas in Adrian, Michigan to
    approximately 17,000 customers.



Non-Utility
    Operations



•Gas Storage and Pipelines consists of natural gas pipelines and
    storage businesses.•Unconventional Gas Production is engaged in unconventional gas
    project development and production.•Power and Industrial Projects is comprised of coke batteries and
    pulverized coal projects, reduced emission fuel and steel
    industry fuel-related projects,on-siteenergy services, power generation and coal transportation and
    marketing.•Energy Trading consists of energy marketing and trading
    operations.



Corporate & Other,includes various holding
    company activities, holds certain non-utility debt and
    energy-related investments.







Refer to our Management’s Discussion and Analysis in
    Item 7 of this Report for an in-depth analysis of each
    segment’s financial results. A description of each business
    unit follows.



ELECTRIC
    UTILITY



Description



Our Electric Utility segment consists of Detroit Edison. Our
    generating plants are regulated by numerous federal and state
    governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC,
    the FERC, the NRC, the EPA and the MDEQ. Electricity is
    generated from our several fossil plants, a hydroelectric pumped
    storage plant and a nuclear plant, and is purchased from
    electricity generators, suppliers and wholesalers. The
    electricity we produce and purchase is sold to three major
    classes of customers: residential, commercial and industrial,
    principally throughout southeastern Michigan.





Revenue
    by Service



200920082007(in Millions)Residential$1,820$1,726$1,739Commercial1,7021,7531,723Industrial730894854Other299289384Subtotal4,5514,6624,700Interconnection sales(1)163212200Total Revenue$4,714$4,874$4,900









(1)Represents power that is not distributed by Detroit Edison.



Weather, economic factors, competition and electricity prices
    affect sales levels to customers. Our peak load and highest
    total system sales generally occur during the third quarter of
    the year, driven by air conditioning and other cooling-related
    demands. Our operations are not dependent upon a limited number
    of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would
    not have a material adverse effect on Detroit Edison.



Fuel
    Supply and Purchased Power



Our power is generated from a variety of fuels and is
    supplemented with purchased power. We expect to have an adequate
    supply of fuel and purchased power to meet our obligation to
    serve customers. Our generating capability is heavily dependent
    upon the availability of coal. Coal is purchased from various
    sources in different geographic areas under agreements that vary
    in both pricing and terms. We expect to obtain the majority of
    our coal requirements through long-term contracts, with the
    balance to be obtained through short-term agreements and spot
    purchases. We have nine long-term and nine short-term contracts
    for a total purchase of approximately 28 million tons of
    low-sulfur western coal to be delivered from 2010 through 2012.
    We also have nine long-term and two short-term contracts for the
    purchase of approximately 9 million tons of Appalachian
    coal to be delivered from 2010 through 2012. All of these
    contracts have fixed prices. We have approximately 87% of our
    2010 expected coal requirements under contract. Given the
    geographic diversity of supply, we believe we can meet our
    expected generation requirements. We lease a fleet of rail cars
    and have transportation contracts with companies to provide rail
    and vessel services for delivery of purchased coal to our
    generating facilities.



Detroit Edison participates in the energy market through MISO.
    We offer our generation in the market on a day-ahead and
    real-time basis and bid for power in the market to serve our
    load. We are a net purchaser of power that supplements our
    generation capability to meet customer demand during peak cycles.

