Item 1.Business.



General

Founded in 1967 by Mr. Ralph Lauren, we are a global leader in the design, marketing, and distribution of premium lifestyle products, including men's, women's, and children's apparel, accessories, fragrances, and home furnishings. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands, sales channels, and international markets. We believe that our global reach, breadth of product offerings, and multi-channel distribution are unique among luxury and apparel companies.

We operate in three distinct but integrated segments: Wholesale, Retail, and Licensing. Our Wholesale business, representing approximately47%of ourFiscal 2014net revenues, consists of sales made principally to major department stores and specialty stores around the world. Our Retail business, representing approximately51%of ourFiscal 2014net revenues, consists of sales made directly to consumers through our retail stores around the world; through concession-based shop-within-shops located primarily in Asia, Australia, and Europe; and through our retail e-commerce channel in North America, Europe, and Asia. Our Licensing business, representing approximately2%of ourFiscal 2014net revenues, consists of royalty-based arrangements under which we license to unrelated third parties the right to operate retail stores and/or to use our various trademarks in connection with the manufacture and sale of designated products, such as apparel, eyewear, and fragrances, in specified geographic areas for










specified periods. Approximately36%of ourFiscal 2014net revenues were earned in international regions outside of the U.S. SeeNote 22to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a summary of net revenues by reportable segment and by geographic location.

Over the past five fiscal years, our sales have grown by50%to$7.450 billioninFiscal 2014from$4.979 billionin the fiscal year endedApril 3, 2010. This growth has been attributable to both our acquisitions and organic growth. We have diversified our business by channels of distribution, price point, and target consumer, as well as by geography. Our global reach is extensive, with Ralph Lauren-branded merchandise available through our wholesale distribution channels at over11,000different retail locations worldwide. We also sell directly to customers throughout the world via our433retail stores, our503concession-based shop-within-shops, and oureighte-commerce sites. In addition to our directly-operated stores and shops, our international licensing partners operate64Ralph Lauren Stores,9Ralph Lauren concession shops, and106Club Monaco stores and shops.

We continue to invest in our business. In the past five fiscal years, we have invested approximately$1.570 billionfor acquisitions and capital improvements, primarily funded through strong operating cash flow. We intend to continue to execute our long-term strategy, which includes expanding our presence internationally, extending our direct-to-consumer reach, expanding our accessories and other product and brand offerings, and investing in our operational infrastructure. See "Objectives and Opportunities" for further discussion of our long-term strategy.

We have been controlled by the Lauren family since the founding of our Company. As ofMarch 29, 2014, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, held approximately81%of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the Company.



Seasonality of Business

Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of wholesale sales in our second and fourth quarters and higher retail sales in our second and third quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and key vacation travel, back-to-school, and holiday shopping periods in our Retail segment. As a result of growth and other changes in our business, along with changes in consumer spending patterns and the macroeconomic environment, historical quarterly operating trends and working capital requirements may not be indicative of our future performance. In addition, fluctuations in sales, operating income, and cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by other events affecting retail sales, such as changes in weather patterns.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital requirements typically increase during the first half of the fiscal year as inventory builds to support peak shipping/selling periods and, accordingly, typically decrease during the second half of the fiscal year as inventory is shipped/sold. Cash provided by operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the fiscal year due to reduced working capital requirements during that period.



Objectives and Opportunities

Our core strengths include a portfolio of global premium lifestyle brands, a proven ability to develop and extend our brands distributed through multiple channels in global markets, a disciplined investment philosophy supported by a strong balance sheet, and an experienced management team. Despite the various risks and uncertainties associated with the current global economic environment, as discussed further in Item 7 – "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Current Trends and Outlook," we believe our core strengths will allow us the opportunity to execute our strategy for long-term sustainable growth in revenue, net income, and operating cash flow.

As our business has grown, our portfolio mix and brand control has evolved from primarily that of a mono-brand U.S.-centric menswear wholesaler with a broad array of product and geographic licenses, to that of a portfolio of lifestyle brands with a "direct control" model over most of our brands, products, and international territories. We believe that this broader and better-diversified portfolio mix positions us for ongoing growth, allowing us to offer our customers a range of products, price points, and channels of distribution. We operate our retail business using an omni-channel retailing strategy to deliver a seamless and integrated shopping experience to our customers. We believe that our size and global operations favorably position us to take advantage of synergies in design, sourcing, and distribution across our different businesses.










While balancing our key long-term strategic objectives with our near-term priorities, we intend to continue to pursue select opportunities for growth during the course of Fiscal 2015 and beyond. These opportunities and continued investment initiatives include:

•International Growth;

•Direct-to-Consumer Growth;

•Product Innovation and Brand Extension Growth;

•Investment in Operational Infrastructure;

•Global Talent Development and Management; and

•Strong Financial Management and Cash Flow Reinvestment.



Recent Developments

Australia and New Zealand Licensed Operations Acquisition

In July 2013, in connection with the transition of the Ralph Lauren-branded apparel and accessories business in Australia and New Zealand (the "Australia and New Zealand Business") from a licensed to a wholly-owned operation, we acquired certain net assets from Oroton Group/PRL Australia ("Oroton") in exchange for an aggregate payment of approximately $15 million (the "Australia and New Zealand Licensed Operations Acquisition"). Oroton was our licensee for the Australia and New Zealand Business. The operating results of the acquired business have been consolidated in our operating results beginning on July 1, 2013.

Chaps Menswear License Acquisition

In April 2013, in connection with the transition of the North American Chaps-branded men's sportswear business (the "Chaps Menswear Business") from a licensed to a wholly-owned operation, we entered into an agreement with The Warnaco Group, Inc. ("Warnaco"), a subsidiary of PVH Corp., to acquire certain net assets in exchange for an aggregate payment of approximately $18 million (the "Chaps Menswear License Acquisition"). Warnaco was our licensee for the Chaps Menswear Business. The operating results of the Chaps Menswear Business have been consolidated in our operating results beginning on April 10, 2013.

Rugby Closure Plan

In October 2012, we approved a plan to wind-down our Rugby brand retail operations (the "Rugby Closure Plan"). This decision was primarily based on the results of an analysis of the brand concept, as well as an opportunity to reallocate our resources related to these operations to support other high-growth business opportunities and initiatives. In connection with the Rugby Closure Plan, 13 of our 14 global freestanding Rugby stores and our related domestic e-commerce site located at Rugby.com were closed during the second half of Fiscal 2013. The one remaining Rugby store was closed during Fiscal 2014. The Rugby Closure Plan also resulted in a reduction in our workforce of approximately160employees. See Notes 11 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements for detailed discussions of impairment and restructuring charges recorded during Fiscal 2013 in connection with the Rugby Closure Plan.

Discontinuance of American Living at JCPenney

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012, we decided, along with our wholesale partner J.C. Penney Company, Inc. ("JCPenney"), to discontinue the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand created for and exclusively sold to JCPenney, effective for the Fall 2012 wholesale selling season. The discontinuance of these American Living product lines did not have a material impact on our consolidated or segment results.



Our Brands and Products

Since 1967, our distinctive brand image has been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, price tiers, and markets. Our products, which include apparel, accessories, and fragrance collections for men and women, as well as










childrenswear and home furnishings, comprise one of the world's most widely recognized families of consumer brands. Reflecting a distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the direction of internationally renowned designer Mr. Ralph Lauren, we have had a considerable influence on the way people dress and the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world.

We combine consumer insight with our design, marketing, and imaging skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad lifestyle product collections with a unified vision:

•Apparel— Products include extensive collections of men's, women's, and children's clothing;

•Accessories— Products encompass a broad range, including footwear, eyewear, watches, fine jewelry, hats, belts, and leathergoods, including handbags and luggage;

•Home— Coordinated home products include bedding and bath products, furniture, fabric and wallpaper, lighting, paint, tabletop, and giftware; and

•Fragrance— Fragrance products are sold under our Big Pony, Romance, Midnight Romance, Polo, Lauren, Safari, Ralph, Black Label, and Purple Label brands, among others.

Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our stores and concession shop-within-shops, our wholesale channels of distribution, and our e-commerce sites, including our North American Ralph Lauren and Club Monaco e-commerce sites; and our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites in Europe, Japan, and South Korea.

Ralph Lauren Women's Collection

Each runway season, Ralph Lauren's most dramatic vision of women's fashion is presented to the world. Timeless and sophisticated, Women's Collection reflects Ralph Lauren's definitive design philosophy in its juxtapositions of feminine glamour with fine tailoring once found only in menswear. From exquisite hand-embroidered evening gowns worn on the red carpet to luxurious hand-finished cashmere tweed suitings to chic vintage denim inspired by rustic Americana, we believe that our Women's Collection is the epitome of modern, rarefied fashion. Ralph Lauren Women's Collection is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Purple Label

In the time-honored tradition of bespoke clothing and haberdashery, Ralph Lauren Purple Label presents a level of sartorial craftsmanship we believe to be unparalleled today. Refined suitings are hand-tailored from a selection of fine fabrics. Custom-tailored Made-to-Measure suits are hand-constructed by artisans trained in the art of handmade clothing. Sophisticated sportswear and dandy-inspired dress furnishings are designed with meticulous attention to every detail. Dedicated to the highest level of quality and elegance, Ralph Lauren Purple Label is the ultimate expression of luxury for the modern gentleman. Ralph Lauren Purple Label also offers benchmade footwear and made-to-order dress furnishings, accessories, and luggage, as well as hand monogramming and custom engraving services. Ralph Lauren Purple Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Accessories

Ralph Lauren accessories for men and women reflect the distinctive design philosophies known throughout the world of Ralph Lauren and represent a continuous dedication to impeccable craftsmanship and iconic beauty. Ralph Lauren accessories for women capture a wide array of timeless styles, from a glamorous handmade alligator Ricky Bag that takes up to 12 hours to craft to weathered canvas saddle bags with authentic equestrian hardware to vintage luggage-inspired handbags that recall the golden age of travel. Ralph Lauren's signature motifs can be found throughout — from jockey-print scarves, riding boots with equestrian hardware, and vintage aviator sunglasses to striking diamante evening shoes, romantic ruffled scarves, and antique, one-of-a-kind belts and jewelry. Ralph Lauren accessories and dress furnishings are a man's most refined finishing touch. Iconic and innovative neckties, which launched the Polo brand in 1967, are woven from the finest silks. Footwear ranges from velvet monogrammed slippers and benchmade dress shoes to hand-sewn penny loafers and rugged suede and shearling duck boots. Handcrafted luggage and leathergoods combine handsome sophistication with functionality. Each accessory is meticulously designed to complement Ralph Lauren's menswear collections — from vintage-inspired eyewear and Savile Row-inspired haberdashery to sleek silver engraved cuff links and engine-turned belt buckles to luxe cashmere scarves and hand-sewn shearling gloves. Ralph Lauren










accessories are available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, select specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Watches

In 2008, Ralph Lauren launched his premier collection of timepieces in partnership with internationally renowned luxury group Compagnie Financière Richemont SA ("Richemont"). The three pillar collections — the iconic Ralph Lauren Stirrup, the refined Ralph Lauren Slim Classique, and the Ralph Lauren Sporting, which features classic sport, automotive, and safari inspirations — embody Ralph Lauren's passion for impeccable quality and exquisite design. Ralph Lauren timepieces feature the finest in Swiss Made manufacture movements and some of the world's most luxurious materials — from pure platinum and polished 18-carat gold cases to enamel dials, traditional guilloché patterns, and full-cut diamonds. Each year, Ralph Lauren Watches debuts new designs that continue this legacy of authentic, high-end watchmaking. Ralph Lauren Watches are available at select Ralph Lauren stores and flagship locations around the world, and the finest watch retailers.

Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry

In 2010, Ralph Lauren Watch & Jewelry Co. introduced the premier collections of Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry. Inspired by brilliance, movement, and the alluring tradition of fine jewelry, this debut unveiled several collections, including the Ralph Lauren Diamond Link Collection, the Ralph Lauren Equestrian Collection, and the Ralph Lauren Chunky Chains Collection — all capturing the glamour and craftsmanship of Ralph Lauren's most luxurious designs. The fine jewelry collections include elegantly setpavédiamond links, classic equestrian motifs stylized in shimmering diamonds, chic chunky chains, and romantic chandelier earrings. Each piece is handcrafted using precious materials and intricate finishing techniques, highlighting a unique beauty and graceful silhouette that is signature Ralph Lauren. Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry is available in select Ralph Lauren stores and flagship locations around the world.

Ralph Lauren Women's Black Label

Black Label is the essence of sleek, modern sophistication for women. Proportions are chic and dramatic, ranging from menswear-inspired silhouettes to shimmering and feminine eveningwear. Fabrics are ultra-luxe and textural, color statements are rich and striking, and racy technical references infuse this glamorous collection with a bold edge. Black Label is offered in select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, designer boutiques, fine specialty stores, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Men's Black Label

With a sharp, modern attitude, Ralph Lauren Black Label is the essence of sophisticated dressing for men. Classic suitings feature razor-sharp tailoring and dramatically lean silhouettes. Luxe, racy sportswear is crafted from fine fabrics and designed with subtle references to technical performance wear. Ultra-stylish yet timeless, the Black Label collection is sleek, bold, and masculine. Ralph Lauren Black Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, a limited selection of specialty stores and better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Women's Black Label Denim

The Ralph Lauren Women's Black Label Denim collection possesses the ultramodern appeal with sexy fashion-forward fits, cool innovative treatments, and an elevated mix of rugged and luxury fabrics. Black Label Denim is offered at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, designer boutiques, fine specialty stores, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Men's Black Label Denim

Introduced in 2011, Ralph Lauren Men's Black Label Denim represents the next evolution of luxe, ultramodern denim for men, with fashion-forward fits, chic signature details, and a focus on authentic, innovative treatments. With a renegade edge and international appeal, Black Label Denim redefines iconic pieces in luxury and rugged fabrics, with accents that capture Ralph Lauren's unique sensibility, from utility and leather to western and automotive. Confident and masculine, Ralph Lauren combines state-of-the-art denim and superfine sportswear to create the ultimate in cool sophistication. Black Label Denim is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, a limited selection of specialty stores and better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.










Women's Polo Ralph Lauren

Polo for women is the new symbol of personal expression for the young modern girl. A romantic bohemian with a cool sportiness, the Polo girl mixes iconic all-American style with an eclectic downtown edge, all put together with individual flair. From sophisticated tweeds and simple black dresses to rugged outdoorsy looks and city-worn leather, Polo represents easy, energetic style — free-spirited and cool. This collection will be launched in Fall 2014 at the new Polo store at 711 Fifth Avenue in New York City, and will be sold at Polo stores around the world, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com and RalphLauren.com/WorldofPolo launching in Fall 2014.

Men's Polo Ralph Lauren

Authentic and iconic, Polo is the original symbol of the modern, preppy lifestyle. Combining Ivy League classics and time-honored English haberdashery with downtown styles and All-American sporting looks, Polo sportswear and tailored clothing present a one-of-a-kind vision of menswear that is stylish and timeless, and appeals to all generations of men. Polo's signature aesthetic — along with our renowned polo player logo — is recognized worldwide as a mark of contemporary heritage excellence. Polo is available in Ralph Lauren and Polo stores around the world, better department stores, select specialty stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com and RalphLauren.com/WorldofPolo launching in Fall 2014.

Ralph Lauren Blue Label

Modern and eclectic with a sexy, youthful spirit, Blue Label embodies the iconic Ralph Lauren sensibility in its mix of vintage Ivy League prep, equestrian heritage, romantic bohemian, and rugged Western inspirations. Blue Label is offered in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. We plan to transition from the Ralph Lauren Blue Label brand subsequent to launching Women's Polo Ralph Lauren in Fall 2014.

RRL

RRL captures an authentic American spirit with a focus on integrity, character, and timeworn charm. Founded in 1993 and named after Ralph and Ricky Lauren's "Double RL" ranch in Colorado, RRL for men and women offers a mix of selvage denim, vintage apparel and accessories, and cool, rugged sportswear with roots in workwear and military gear. With denim at the heart of the brand, RRL is dedicated to time-honored details and the highest quality workmanship — from ring-spun long-staple cotton yarns to traditional dyeing techniques and hand-applied artisanal finishes that result in one-of-a-kind, exceptionally durable pieces. RRL is available at RRL stores, at select Ralph Lauren stores, and an exclusive selection of the finest specialty stores around the world, as well as online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

RLX Ralph Lauren

Created to answer the demand for superior, high-performance outfitting, RLX Ralph Lauren for men and women unites the highest standards of luxury, technology, and style. From cutting-edge functional gear for professional athletes to exceptionally luxe lifestyle apparel for modern living, RLX Ralph Lauren defines the next evolution of design with a philosophy focused on purity of form, unique construction techniques, and innovative fabrications. The RLX Ralph Lauren line is available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, top specialty and department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Lauren Ralph Lauren

Lauren translates the sophisticated luxury of Ralph Lauren womenswear into an affordable wardrobe for every occasion. From timeless essentials with special finishing touches to polished silhouettes with a chic, modern spirit, Lauren maintains an elegant, feminine heritage while making strong seasonal fashion statements. Lauren Active infuses a fashion sensibility into practical sports apparel for golf, tennis, yoga, and weekend wear. Lauren Jeans Co. presents a fresh perspective on denim with a breadth of styles and a complementary collection of sportswear items. Lauren Handbags, first introduced for the Fall 2010 season, add to a wide range of accessories offerings from Lauren, including belts, scarves, gloves, footwear, and jewelry. Lauren offers a range of fits from Petites to Women's sizes. Lauren is sold in select department stores in North America and Europe, with plans to expand to Japan and South Korea in Fiscal 2015, and is also available online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.










Ralph Lauren Childrenswear

Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is designed to reflect the timeless heritage and modern spirit of Ralph Lauren's collections for men and women. Signature classics, including iconic polo knit shirts and luxurious cashmere cable sweaters, are interpreted in the most sophisticated and vibrant colors. Fashionable styles are inspired by Ralph Lauren's unique vision each season — from All-American sportswear with preppy and equestrian inspirations to tailored and elegant ensembles for special occasions. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is available in a full range of sizes for children, from baby, infant, and toddler to girls size 16 and boys size 20. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear can be found in select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren

Introduced in Fall 2011 with a young bohemian attitude, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren captures the unique, effortless style of clothes that live and breathe individuality. Eclectic and carefree — from destructed premium denim to sexy, romantic free-spirited clothes to rugged, weathered American utility — Denim & Supply is the next generation of down-to-earth dressing. Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren opened its first freestanding U.S. stores in New York and Boston in Summer 2013. Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available at our Denim & Supply stores around the world, at Macy's and Hudson's Bay in North America and select department stores in Europe and Asia, and in specialty stores and concession shops in Asia. In addition, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Golf

Tested and worn by top-ranked professional golfers, Polo Golf for men and Ralph Lauren Golf for women define heritage excellence in the world of golf. With a sharpened focus on the needs of the modern player but always rooted in the rich design tradition of Ralph Lauren, the Golf collections combine state-of-the-art performance wear with luxurious finishing touches for collections that travel effortlessly between the course and the clubhouse. The RLX Golf collection is ultramodern, graphic, and dedicated to performance-driven design. From progressive fits and sophisticated styles to the technologically advanced fabrics, RLX golf is the ultimate in functional luxury. Ralph Lauren is proud to sponsor professional golfers, including Tom Watson, Davis Love III, Jonathan Byrd, Luke Donald, Matteo Manassero, Billy Horschel,and Morgan Hoffman. The Polo, Ralph Lauren, and RLX Golf collections are available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, exclusive private clubs and resorts, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Pink Pony

Established in 2000, Pink Pony is our worldwide initiative in the fight against cancer. Pink Pony supports programs for early diagnosis, education, treatment, and research, and is dedicated to bringing patient navigation and quality cancer care to medically underserved communities. A percentage of sales from all Pink Pony products benefits the Pink Pony Fund of the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation and other major cancer charities around the world. Pink Pony primarily consists of feminine, slim-fitting women's sportswear and accessories crafted in luxurious fabrics. From hooded sweatshirts and cotton mesh polos to canvas tote bags and cashmere yoga pants, all Pink Pony items feature our iconic pink Polo Player — a symbol of our commitment to the fight against cancer. Pink Pony is available at select Ralph Lauren stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. During the month of October, Pink Pony is also available at select Macy's stores and Macys.com. To learn more about Pink Pony and our Company's other philanthropic efforts, please visit RalphLauren.com/Philanthropy.

Ralph Lauren Home

As the first American fashion designer to create an all-encompassing collection for the home, Ralph Lauren presents home furnishings and accessories that reflect the enduring style and exquisite craftsmanship synonymous with the name Ralph Lauren. Whether inspired by time-honored tradition, the utmost in modern sophistication, or the beauty of rare objects collected around the world, Ralph Lauren Home is dedicated to fine materials and great attention to detail for the ultimate in artisanal luxury. The collections include furniture, bed and bath linens, china, crystal, silver, decorative accessories and gifts, as well as lighting, fabric, wallcovering, and floorcovering. Ralph Lauren Home offers exclusive luxury goods at select Ralph Lauren stores, home specialty stores, trade showrooms, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. The complete world of Ralph Lauren Home can be explored online at RalphLaurenHome.com.










Ralph Lauren Paint

Introduced in 1995, Ralph Lauren Paint offers exceptional quality and beauty in the Ralph Lauren tradition. Drawing on over four decades of iconic design, Ralph Lauren paint is meticulously crafted from some of the finest materials in the industry to achieve from fine coverage to long-lasting brilliance. In addition to a signature palette of over 400 one-of-a-kind colors, Ralph Lauren Paint brings the texture and appearance of some of Ralph Lauren's most celebrated lifestyles to the home with a distinctive collection of faux techniques and unique specialty finishes. Ralph Lauren Paint is offered at select specialty stores in the U.S. The complete color palette, paint how-to's, and a guide to professional painters can be explored online at RalphLaurenPaint.com.

Fragrance

In 1978, Mr. Ralph Lauren expanded his lifestyle brand to encompass the world of fragrance, launching Lauren for women and Polo for men. Since then, Ralph Lauren Fragrance has captured the essence of Ralph Lauren's men's and women's brands, from the timeless heritage of Lauren and Polo to the sophisticated beauty of Polo Black for men and Romance for women to the modern, fresh Ralph fragrances for her, designed to appeal to a younger audience. Women's fragrances include Romance, Midnight Romance, Lauren, Safari, the Ralph Collection, Ralph Lauren Blue, and the Big Pony collection. Men's fragrances include Polo, Polo Red, Polo Blue, Polo Blue Sport, Polo Black, Double Black, Polo Sport, Romance for Men, Safari, Purple Label, and the Big Pony collection. Ralph Lauren fragrances are available in department stores, specialty and duty free stores, perfumeries, select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Lauren for Men

Classic and polished, Lauren for Men conveys a spirit of tradition with a contemporary attitude. A complete collection of men's tailored clothing, including suits, sport coats, dress shirts, dress pants, tuxedos, topcoats, and ties, the Lauren men's line offers the sophisticated spirit and preppy heritage of Ralph Lauren menswear at a more accessible price point. A soft, natural shoulder and modern construction details ensure elegant styling with superior comfort and the integrity of a well-made garment. Lauren for Men is available at select department stores in North America and Europe.

Ralph by Ralph Lauren

Superior fabrics and a precise, impeccable construction define the distinguished aesthetic of the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection for men. Suit separates, sport coats, vests, and topcoats are all fashioned with the hallmarks of better men's suitings, from half-canvas jacket constructions and high-quality Bemberg linings to hand-finished seams, felled cuffs, and hems and reinforcements at natural points of wear. Timeless and unmistakably Ralph Lauren, the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection offers refined luxury at an excellent value. Ralph by Ralph Lauren is available exclusively at Dillard's stores and Dillards.com.

Chaps

Chaps translates the classic heritage and timeless aesthetic of Ralph Lauren into an accessible line for men, women, children, and the home. From casual basics designed for versatility and ease of wear to smart, finely tailored silhouettes perfect for business and more formal occasions, Chaps creates interchangeable classics that are both enduring and affordable. The Chaps men's collection is available at select department and specialty stores in the U.S. and Canada, and in department stores and Chaps retail stores in Mexico. The Chaps collections for women, children, and home are offered in the U.S. by Kohl's Corporation ("Kohl's") at their stores and Kohls.com. The Chaps collections for women and children are also offered in Canada at Hudson's Bay stores and thebay.com, and in Mexico at Chaps retail stores. The launch of the Chaps store concept in the U.S. and expansion of the Chaps brand to certain international locations is planned for Fiscal 2015.

Club Monaco

Founded in 1985, Club Monaco is an international destination for affordable, stylish luxury. Each season, Club Monaco designs and markets its own clothing and accessories for men and women, offering key fashion pieces with modern, urban sophistication and a selection of updated classics — from the versatile white shirt and black pencil skirt to refined suiting and Italian cashmere. The brand's signature aesthetic is defined by clean, contemporary design and a palette of versatile neutrals infused with pops of vibrant colors. Club Monaco apparel and accessories are available at Club Monaco stores around the world, as well as online at our Club Monaco domestic e-commerce site at ClubMonaco.com. In April 2012, Club Monaco further expanded its e-commerce presence in North America by launching ClubMonaco.ca in Canada. Club Monaco is currently also available in Europe at Club Monaco stores, department stores and specialty shops, and in Asia through our licensing arrangements.












Our Wholesale Segment

Our Wholesale segment sells our products to leading upscale and certain mid-tier department stores, specialty stores, and golf and pro shops, both domestically and internationally. We have continued to focus on elevating our brand by improving in-store product assortment and presentation, as well as full-price sell-throughs to consumers. As of the end ofFiscal 2014, our Ralph Lauren-branded products were sold through over11,000doors worldwide and we invested$53million of capital in related shop-within-shops primarily in domestic and international department and specialty stores. Our products are also sold through the e-commerce sites of certain of our wholesale customers.

The primary product offerings sold through our wholesale channels of distribution include menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, and home furnishings. Our collection brands — Ralph Lauren Women's Collection and Black Label and Men's Purple Label and Black Label — are distributed worldwide through a limited number of premier fashion retailers. Department stores are our major wholesale customers in North America. In Latin America, our wholesale products are sold in department stores and specialty stores. In Europe, our wholesale sales are a varying mix of sales to both department stores and specialty stores, depending on the country. In Japan, our wholesale products are distributed primarily through shop-within-shops at premier and top-tier department stores, and the mix of business is weighted to Men's and Women's Blue Label. In the Greater China and Southeast Asia region and Australia, our wholesale products are sold mainly at mid and top-tier department stores, and the mix of business is primarily weighted to Men's and Women's Blue Label. We also distribute product to certain licensed stores operated by our partners in Latin America, Europe, and Asia. In addition, our Club Monaco products are distributed through select department stores and specialty stores in Europe.

We sell the majority of our excess and out-of-season products through secondary distribution channels worldwide, including our retail factory stores.

Worldwide Distribution Channels

The following table presents the number of doors by geographic location in which Ralph Lauren-branded products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold to consumers in our primary channels of distribution as ofMarch 29, 2014:

LocationNumber of DoorsThe Americas(a)6,459Europe4,864Asia(b)130Total11,453



(a)Includes the U.S., Canada, and Latin America.

(b)Includes Australia, China, Japan, the Philippines, and Thailand.

In addition, Chaps-branded products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold domestically through approximately2,800doors as ofMarch 29, 2014.

We havethreekey wholesale customers that generate significant sales volume. ForFiscal 2014, these customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately50%of our total Wholesale revenues, with Macy's, Inc. ("Macy's") representing approximately25%of our total Wholesale revenues.

Our products are sold primarily through our own sales forces. Our Wholesale segment maintains its primary showrooms in New York City. In addition, we maintain regional showrooms in Milan, Paris, London, Munich, Madrid, Stockholm, and Panama.

Shop-within-Shops.As a critical element of our distribution to department stores, we and our licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to enhance brand recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines by the department stores, and to differentiate the presentation of our products.

As ofMarch 29, 2014, we had approximately22,000shop-within-shops in our primary channels of distribution dedicated to our Ralph Lauren-branded wholesale products worldwide. The size of our shop-within-shops ranges from approximately100 to 9,200square feet. Shop-within-shop fixed assets primarily include items such as customized freestanding fixtures, wall cases












and components, decorative items, and flooring. We normally share in the cost of building out these shop-within-shops with our wholesale customers.

Basic Stock Replenishment Program.Basic products such as knit shirts, chino pants, oxford cloth shirts, selected accessories, and Home products can be ordered by our wholesale customers at any time through our basic stock replenishment programs. We generally ship these products within two to five days of order receipt.



Our Retail Segment

As ofMarch 29, 2014, our Retail segment consisted of433directly-operated freestanding stores worldwide, totaling approximately3 millionsquare feet,503concession-based shop-within-shops, andeighte-commerce websites. The extension of our direct-to-consumer reach is one of our primary long-term strategic goals. We operate our retail business using an omni-channel retailing strategy to deliver a seamless and integrated shopping experience with a consistent message of our brands and products to our customers, regardless of whether they are shopping for our products in one of our physical stores or online.

Ralph Lauren Stores

Our Ralph Lauren stores feature a broad range of apparel, accessories, home, watch and jewelry, and fragrance product assortments in an atmosphere reflecting the distinctive attitude and image of the Ralph Lauren, Polo, RRL, and Denim & Supply brands, including exclusive merchandise that is not sold in department stores. DuringFiscal 2014, we opened17new Ralph Lauren stores, acquiredeightpreviously licensed stores in Australia and New Zealand, convertedthreestores from concession-based shop-within-shops, and closedfivestores. Our Ralph Lauren stores are primarily situated in major upscale street locations and upscale regional malls, generally in large urban markets.

We operated the following Ralph Lauren stores as ofMarch 29, 2014:

LocationRalph Lauren StoresThe Americas57Europe27Asia(a)54Total138



(a)Includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Macau, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, and Vietnam.

Oursevenflagship Ralph Lauren store locations showcase our upper-end luxury styles and products and demonstrate our most refined merchandising techniques. In addition to generating sales of our products, our worldwide Ralph Lauren stores establish, reinforce, and capitalize on the image of our brands. Our Ralph Lauren stores range in size from approximately700 to 38,000square feet.

Club Monaco Stores

Our Club Monaco stores feature fashion apparel and accessories for both men and women. The brand's clean and contemporary signature style forms the foundation of a modern wardrobe. As ofMarch 29, 2014, we operated60Club Monaco retail stores in North America and Europe. Our Club Monaco stores range in size from approximately900 to 17,400square feet.

Factory Stores

We extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our235factory stores worldwide, generally located in outlet centers. DuringFiscal 2014, we added24new factory stores, acquiredfivepreviously licensed stores in Australia, and closedsevenfactory stores.










We operated the following factory stores as ofMarch 29, 2014:

LocationFactory StoresThe Americas150Europe50Asia(a)35Total235



(a)Includes Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, and Taiwan.

Our factory stores in theAmericas offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings, and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately2,700 to 20,000square feet, with an average of approximately10,400square feet, these stores are principally located in major outlet centers in40states in the U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico.

Our factory stores in Europe offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings, and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately1,400 to 19,700square feet, with an average of approximately7,000square feet, these stores are located in12countries, principally in major outlet centers.

Our factory stores in Asia offer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, and fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately1,100 to 11,800square feet, with an average of approximately6,200square feet, these stores are primarily located throughout China and Japan, in Hong Kong, and in or near other major cities in Asia and Australia. Our factory stores are principally located in major outlet centers.

Factory stores obtain products from our suppliers, our product licensing partners, and our other retail stores and e-commerce operations, and also serve as a secondary distribution channel for our excess and out-of-season products.

Concession-based Shop-within-Shops

The terms of trade for shop-within-shops are largely conducted on a concession basis, whereby inventory continues to be owned by us (not the department store) until ultimate sale to the end consumer. The salespeople involved in the sales transactions are generally our employees and not those of the department store.

As ofMarch 29, 2014, we had503concession-based shop-within-shops at243retail locations dedicated to our products, which were located in Asia, Australia, New Zealand, and Europe. The size of our concession-based shop-within-shops ranges from approximately140 to 7,400square feet. We may share in the cost of building-out certain of these shop-within-shops with our department store partners.

E-commerce Websites

In addition to our stores, our Retail segment sells products online through our e-commerce channel, which includes:

•Our North American e-commerce sites located at www.RalphLauren.com and www.ClubMonaco.com, as well as our Club Monaco site in Canada located at www.ClubMonaco.ca;

•Our Ralph Laurene-commerce sites in Europe, including www.RalphLauren.co.uk (servicing the United Kingdom), www.RalphLauren.fr (servicing Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain), and www.RalphLauren.de (servicing Germany and Austria); and

•Our Ralph Laurene-commerce sites in Asia, including www.RalphLauren.co.jp servicing Japan and www.RalphLauren.co.kr servicing South Korea.

Our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites in the U.S., Europe, and Asia offer our customers access to a broad array of Ralph Lauren, RRL, Polo, and Denim & Supply apparel, accessories, fragrance, and home products, and reinforce the luxury image of our brands. While investing in e-commerce operations remains a primary focus, it is an extension of our investment in the integrated omni-channel strategy used to operate our overall retail business, in which our e-commerce operations are interdependent with our physical stores.

Our Club Monaco e-commerce sites in the U.S. and Canada offer our domestic and Canadian customers access to our Club Monaco global assortment of womenswear, menswear, and accessories product lines, as well as select online exclusives.












Our Licensing Segment

Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight, design, and marketing skills with the specific product or geographic competencies of our licensing partners to create and build new businesses. We generally seek out licensing partners who are leaders in their respective markets, contribute the majority of the product development costs, provide the operational infrastructure required to support the business, and own the inventory.

We grant our product licensees the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified categories of products under one or more of our trademarks. We grant our international geographic area licensing partners exclusive rights to distribute certain brands or classes of our products and operate retail stores in specific international territories. These geographic area licensees source products from us, our product licensing partners, and independent sources. Each licensing partner pays us royalties based upon its sales of our products, generally subject to a minimum royalty requirement for the right to use our trademarks and design services. In addition, licensing partners may be required to allocate a portion of their revenues to advertising our products and sharing in the creative costs associated with these products. Larger allocations are required in connection with launches of new products or in new territories. Our licenses generally have one to five-year terms and may grant the licensees conditional renewal options.

We work closely with all of our licensing partners to ensure that their products are developed, marketed, and distributed to reach the intended consumer and are presented consistently across product categories and international markets to convey the distinctive identity and lifestyle associated with our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution, advertising, and promotion of Ralph Lauren products are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. We perform a broader range of services for our Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners than we do for our other licensing partners, including design, operating showrooms, marketing, advertising, and, in some cases, sales. In general, our Home licensing partners manufacture and own the inventory, and ship the products.

Approximately45%of our licensing revenue forFiscal 2014was earned fromfourof our largest licensing partners:  Luxottica Group, S.p.A., L'Oreal S.A., Peerless, Inc., and Hanesbrands Inc. The following table lists our largest licensing agreements as ofMarch 29, 2014. Except as noted in the table, these product licenses cover the U.S. or North America only.

CategoryLicensed ProductsLicensing PartnersMen's ApparelUnderwear and SleepwearHanesbrands, Inc.Chaps, Lauren, and Ralph Tailored ClothingPeerless, Inc.Beauty ProductsFragrances, Cosmetics, Color, and Skin CareL'Oreal S.A. (global)AccessoriesEyewearLuxottica Group, S.p.A. (global)Home(a)Bedding and BathIchida (Japan) and Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.Utility and BlanketsHollander Sleep Products LLC and Kohl's Department Stores, Inc.Fabric and WallpaperDesigners Guild Limited and P. Kaufmann Inc.FurnitureEJ Victor, Inc.



(a)Our Home products are sold under our Ralph Lauren Home, Lauren by Ralph Lauren, and Chaps brands. As of March 29, 2014, we had agreements withtendomestic andthreeinternational Home product licensing partners.

In July 2013, our international licensing agreements with Oroton in Australia and New Zealand and Comercial Madison, S.A. in Chile expired, and we assumed control over the related product distribution in these regions. We believe that international markets will continue to offer us additional growth opportunities for our quintessential American design and lifestyle image through both international licensing arrangements and our directly owned operations.



Product Design

Our products reflect a timeless and innovative interpretation of American style with a strong international appeal. Our consistent emphasis on new and distinctive design has been an important contributor to the prominence, strength, and reputation of the Ralph Lauren brands.










Our Ralph Lauren products are designed by and under the direction of Mr. Ralph Lauren and our design staff. We form design teams around our brands and product categories to develop concepts, themes, and products for each brand and category. Through close collaboration with merchandising, sales, and production staff, these teams support all three segments of our business — Wholesale, Retail, and Licensing — in order to gain market information and other valuable input.



Marketing and Advertising

Our marketing and advertising programs communicate the themes and images of our brands and are integral to our product offerings. The majority of our advertising program is created and executed on a centralized basis through our in-house creative and advertising organization to ensure consistency of presentation, which is complemented by our marketing experts in each region who help to execute our international strategies.

We create distinctive image advertising for our brands, conveying the particular message of each one within the context of the overall Ralph Lauren aesthetic. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item and include a variety of products offered by ourselves and, in some cases, our licensing partners. Our primary advertising medium is print, with multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a range of fashion, lifestyle, and general interest magazines. Major print advertising campaigns are conducted during the fall and spring retail seasons, with additions throughout the year to coincide with product deliveries. In addition to print, we utilize television and outdoor media in certain of our marketing programs. We also market our brand through direct-to-consumer marketing, special events, and interactive digital activities. We use our consumer database and consumer knowledge to guide these activities.

Our digital advertising programs focus on high impact and innovative digital media outlets, which allow us to convey our key brand messages and lifestyle positioning. We also develop digital editorial initiatives that allow for deeper education and engagement around the Ralph Lauren lifestyle, including the Ralph Lauren magazine, style guides, and videos. We deploy these marketing and advertising initiatives through online, mobile, email, and social media. Our e-commerce sites present the Ralph Lauren lifestyle online, while offering a broad array of our apparel, accessories, and Home product lines.

We advertise in consumer and trade print and digital media, and participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with some of our retail and licensing partners. We also provide point-of-sale fixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the presentation of our products at their retail locations. In addition, when our licensing partners are required to spend an amount equal to a percentage of their licensed product sales on advertising, we coordinate the advertising placement on their behalf. We believe our investments in shop-within-shop environments and retail stores, including our flagship locations worldwide, contribute to and enhance the themes of our brands to consumers. We expensed approximately$256 millionrelated to the advertising, marketing, and promotion of our products inFiscal 2014.

We also conduct a variety of public relations activities. Each of our spring and fall womenswear Collections are presented at major fashion shows in New York City, which typically generate extensive domestic and international media coverage. In addition, in Fiscal 2014, we also showcased our Resort and Pre-Fall Collections in fashion shows at our Women's flagship store in New York City. We introduce each of the spring and fall menswear collections at press presentations in major cities such as New York City and Milan. In addition, we organize in-store events, including appearances by our models, certain athletes, and other public interest figures.

We continue to be the exclusive outfitter for all on-court officials at the Wimbledon tennis tournament and the official outfitter of all on-court officials at the U.S. Open tennis tournament. Both tournaments provide worldwide exposure for our brand in a relevant lifestyle environment. We also continue to be the exclusive Official Parade Outfitter for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams, with the right to manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote, and sell products in the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and associated leisure wear. Most recently, we dressed the team for the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi and preparations have already started to dress the team for the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio. As part of our involvement with Team U.S.A., we have established a partnership with athletes serving as brand ambassadors and as the faces of our advertising, marketing, and public relations campaigns.

Under our agreement with the United States Golf Association ("USGA"), we continue to be the official apparel outfitter for the USGA and the U.S. Open Championships and serve as the championship's largest on-site apparel supplier. Additionally, under our agreement with The Royal & Ancient, we are an Official Patron of The Open Championship that is played annually on British links golf courses. As part of this agreement, we are outfitting all officials and staff members at The Open Championship and are serving as the championship's largest on-site apparel retailer. We believe our partnerships with prestigious global tournaments reinforce our brand's sporting heritage.












Sourcing, Production and Quality

We contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own or operate any production facilities. Over700different manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel, footwear, accessories, and home products, with no one manufacturer providing more than approximately4%of our total production duringFiscal 2014. We source both finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons, and other trim. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers. InFiscal 2014, less than2%of our products (by dollar value) were produced in the U.S., and over98%of our products (by dollar value) were produced outside the U.S., primarily in Asia, Europe, and Latin America. See "Import Restrictions and other Government Regulations" and Item 1A — "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business — Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor, or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications."

Most of our businesses must commit to the manufacturing of our garments before we sell finished goods, whether to wholly-owned retail stores or to wholesale customers. We also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well in advance of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers' demand for a particular product or the need for a particular fabric or yarn, we may sell the excess products or garments made from such fabric or yarn in our factory stores or through other secondary distribution channels.

Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia, the Americas, the Middle East, and Europe. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production and quality control staff in Asia, the Americas, the Middle East, and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor certification and compliance programs so that quality assurance is reviewed early in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.



Competition

Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances, and home furnishing products, both domestic and international. Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality, value, and service, which depend on our ability to:

•anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner;

•maintain favorable brand recognition, loyalty, and reputation for quality;

•develop and produce high quality products that appeal to consumers;

•appropriately source raw materials at cost-effective prices;

•appropriately price our products;

•provide strong and effective marketing support;

•ensure product availability; and

•obtain additional points of distribution and sufficient retail floor space, and effectively present our products at retail.

See Item 1A — "Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete — We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate."












Distribution

To facilitate global distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution centers around the world for inspection, sorting, packing, and delivery to retail and wholesale customers. This network includes the following primary distribution facilities:

Geographic RegionFacility TypeFacility LocationFacilityOwnershipU.S.Wholesale and Retail distribution centerGreensboro, North CarolinaOwnedWholesale distribution centerHigh Point, North CarolinaLeasedE-commerce distribution centerHigh Point, North Carolina(a)OwnedDistribution centerChino Hills, CaliforniaThird-partyDistribution centerMiami, FloridaThird-partyCanadaDistribution centerToronto, OntarioThird-partyEuropeDistribution centerParma, Italy(b)Third-partyJapanDistribution centerYokohama, Japan(c)Third-partySouth KoreaDistribution centerBugok, South Korea(d)LeasedGreater China and Southeast Asia(e)Distribution centersHong Kong, China, Singapore,Malaysia, and TaiwanThird-partyLatin AmericaDistribution centerColón, PanamaThird-party



(a)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for RalphLauren.com and ClubMonaco.com.

(b)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our European businesses, including our e-commerce operations in Europe.

(c)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our Japanese businesses, including our e-commerce operations in Japan.

(d)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in South Korea, including our e-commerce operations.

(e)Includes China, Hong Kong, Macau, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Our distribution center in Hong Kong also performs customer order fulfillment for our businesses in Australia and New Zealand.



All facilities are designed to allow for high-density cube storage and value-added services, and utilize unit and carton tracking technology to facilitate process control and inventory management. The distribution network is managed through globally integrated information technology systems.



Management Information Systems

Our management information systems make the design, marketing, manufacturing, importing, and distribution of our products more efficient by providing, among other things:

•comprehensive order processing;

•production and design information;

•accounting information; and

•an enterprise view of information for our design, marketing, manufacturing, importing, and distribution functions.

The point-of-sale registers, in conjunction with other systems in our stores, enable us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial systems, coupled with our point-of-sale registers and software programs, allow for efficient stock replenishment, effective merchandise planning, and real-time inventory and sales accounting.












In the U.S. and Europe, we utilize an automated replenishment system to facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. In the U.S. and Europe, we also utilize an automated allocation system to facilitate the flow of inventory for our Retail segment.

We are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting information technology system, SAP, as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our systems and processes. The implementation of this global system is scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years. During Fiscal 2014, we continued to migrate certain areas of our business to SAP, including global merchandise procurement and customer order management and record-to-report for our North American wholesale operations, which is scheduled to be completed in Fiscal 2015. During Fiscal 2015, we will also begin planning the migration of our European operations to SAP, which will be completed in stages over the next several years.

See Item 1A — "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business" and "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively."



Wholesale Credit Control

We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise principally to major department stores and extend credit based on an evaluation of the wholesale customer's financial capacity and condition, usually without requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of our wholesale customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit insurance to manage the risk of bad debts. In North America, collection and deduction transactional activities are provided through a third-party service provider. See Item 1A — "Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business—Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers."



Wholesale Backlog

We generally receive wholesale orders approximately three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered to customers. Such orders are generally subject to broad cancellation rights. Our total backlog was approximately$1.5 billionand$1.4 billionas ofMarch 29, 2014andMarch 30, 2013, respectively. We expect that substantially all of our backlog orders as ofMarch 29, 2014will be filled within the next fiscal year.

The size of our order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the timing of the market weeks for our particular lines during which a significant percentage of our orders are received and the timing of shipments, which varies from year-to-year with consideration for holidays, consumer trends, concept plans, and the basic stock replenishment programs usage. As a consequence, a comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to period may not be meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual shipments.



Trademarks

We own the RALPH LAUREN, POLO, POLO BY RALPH LAUREN DESIGN, and the famous polo player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and approximately 120 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we own include:

•PURPLE LABEL;

•BLACK LABEL;

•BLUE LABEL;

•RRL;

•RLX;

•LAUREN RALPH LAUREN;










•DENIM & SUPPLY RALPH LAUREN;

•PINK PONY;

•LAUREN;

•RALPH;

•CHAPS;

•CLUB MONACO;

•RUGBY;

•AMERICAN LIVING; and

•Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics.

Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as trademarks RALPH LAUREN, DOUBLE RL, and RRL in perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living animals. The trademarks DOUBLE RL and RRL are currently used by the Double RL Company, an entity wholly-owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition, Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects involving film or theatrical productions (not including or relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a company wholly-owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these companies has no impact on us.

Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings, restaurant and café services, online services and online publications, and beauty products, as well as in connection with retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been the object of counterfeiting. While we have a broad enforcement program which has been generally effective in protecting our intellectual property rights and limiting the sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major markets abroad, we face greater challenges with respect to enforcing our rights against trademark infringement in certain parts of Asia.

In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, including POLO and/or a representation of a Polo Player Design, which impede our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have, in general, successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A — "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S." and Item 3 — "Legal Proceedings" for further discussion). Although we have not in the past suffered any material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce trademarks to new markets.



Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations

Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the Americas, Europe, Asia, Australia, and New Zealand is subject to duties. In addition, most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas and duties to protect their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption. The U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries) at unfairly traded prices in such increased quantities that would cause (or threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as "anti-dumping" actions). If dumping is suspected in the U.S., the U.S. government may self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of the U.S. textile industry which could significantly affect our costs. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the U.S. government to offset subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a U.S. industry. Legislative proposals have been introduced which,










if adopted, would treat a manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the anti-dumping or countervailing duty laws.

We are also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, the Caribbean Basin Initiative, and other special trade programs. A portion of our imported products are eligible for certain of these duty-advantaged programs. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of a "safeguard quota," or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts of production among countries and manufacturers, and through geographical diversification of our sources of supply.

As almost all our products are manufactured by foreign suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the administration of current international trade regulations, executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quotas could adversely affect our operations. On January 1, 2005, the World Trade Organization's 148 member nations lifted all quotas on apparel and textiles. As a result, all textiles and apparel manufactured in each member nation and exported after January 1, 2005 are no longer subject to quota restrictions. Although we generally expect that the 2005 elimination of quotas will result, over the long term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced abroad, the implementation of any "safeguard quota provisions," any "anti-dumping" or "countervailing duty" actions, or any other actions impacting international trade may result, in the near term, in cost increases and in disruption of the supply chain for certain product categories. See Item 1A — "

Risk Factors

—

Risks Related to Our Business

—

Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political, and economic risks" and "Risk Factors

—

Risks Related to Our Business

—

Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight, or labor, or a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications.

"

Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to regulation in the U.S. and other countries by other governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Consumer Products Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, which imposes limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in children's products. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety, particularly with respect to products used by children. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the next fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products, licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, and the vendors and factories with which we contract for the manufacture and distribution of our products are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, vendors, and factories to operate in compliance with all laws and regulations, and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results.

We are also subject to new disclosure and reporting requirements, established under existing or new federal or state laws, such as the requirements to identify the origin and existence of certain "conflict minerals" under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and disclosures of abusive labor practices in portions of our supply chain under the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, which could increase the cost of doing business, adversely affecting our results of operations.

Although we have not suffered any material restriction from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets.



Employees

As ofMarch 29, 2014, we had approximately 23,000 employees, including approximately 14,000 full-time and approximately 9,000 part-time employees. Approximately 14,000 of our employees are located in the U.S. and approximately 9,000 are located in foreign countries. Approximately 30 of our U.S. production and distribution employees in the womenswear business are members of Workers United (which was previously known as UNITE HERE) under an industry association collective bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and non-union employees to be good.












Executive Officers

The following are our current executive officers and their principal recent business experience:





Ralph LaurenAge 74Mr. Lauren has been our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and director since prior to our initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the Advisory Board of the Board of Directors of our predecessors since their organization. He founded our business in 1967. For over four decades, Mr. Lauren has cultivated the iconography of America into a global lifestyle brand.



Roger N. Farah(a)Age 61Mr. Farah has been Executive Vice Chairman of the Company since November 2013 and a director of the Company since  April 2000. He was the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer from April 2000 through October 2013. Mr. Farah was Chairman of the board of directors of Venator Group, Inc. (now Foot Locker, Inc.) from December 1994 until April 2000, and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to August 1999. He is Chairman of the Finance Committee and a member of the Executive Committee of the National Retail Federation and is currently a member of the board of directors of Aetna, Inc., The Progressive Corporation, and Metro Bank.



Jackwyn L. NemerovAge 62Ms. Nemerov has been our President & Chief Operating Officer since November 2013 and a director of the Company since February 2007. She served as Executive Vice President of the Company from September 2004 through October 2013. Ms. Nemerov was President & Chief Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc. from January 1998 until March 2002. Prior to that, Ms. Nemerov was affiliated with Allied Stores, Bernard Chaus and Gloria Vanderbilt for Murjani. Ms. Nemerov currently serves as a member of the board of governors of The New School University's Parsons School of Design.



Christopher H. PetersonAge 47Mr. Peterson has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer since November 2013. He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from September 2012 through November 2013. From 1992 to 2012, Mr. Peterson held various positions with The Procter & Gamble Company, most recently serving as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of its Global Household Care division.



Mitchell A. KoshAge 64Mr. Kosh has served as our Executive Vice President of Human Resources since March 2014. He was Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company from July 2000 through February 2014. Mr. Kosh was Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Conseco, Inc. from February 2000 to July 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive human resource positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting in 1996.



(a)On May 8, 2014, Roger N. Farah notified us of his resignation from the Company as Executive Vice Chairman, effective as of May 31, 2014. Mr. Farah will remain on our Board of Directors until our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in August 2014.












