Item 1.Business.

General

Founded in 1967 by Mr. Ralph Lauren, we are a global leader
in the design, marketing and distribution of premium lifestyle products, including men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, accessories (including footwear), fragrances and home furnishings. Our long-standing reputation and distinctive
image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands and international markets. We believe that our global reach, breadth of product and multi-channel distribution are unique among luxury and apparel companies.

We operate in three distinct but integrated segments: Wholesale, Retail and Licensing. Our Wholesale business, representing
approximately 47% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of wholesale-channel sales made principally to major department stores and specialty stores located throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and South America. Our Retail business,
representing approximately 50% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of retail-channel sales directly to consumers through retail stores located throughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and South America; through concessions-based
shop-within-shops located primarily in Asia; and through our retail e-commerce channel, which includes our domestic and European sites. During Fiscal 2012, we expanded our e-commerce presence in Europe by launching new retail e-commerce sites in
France (which also services Belgium,






Luxembourg and the Netherlands) and Germany (which also services Austria), as well as in the U.S. where we launched a new retail e-commerce site for ourClub Monacobusiness. Our Licensing
business, representing approximately 3% of Fiscal 2012 net revenues, consists of royalty-based arrangements under which we license the right to third parties to use our various trademarks in connection with the manufacture and sale of
designated products, such as apparel, eyewear and fragrances, in specified geographical areas for specified periods. Approximately 38% of our Fiscal 2012 net revenues were earned in international regions outside of the U.S. See Note 22 to
the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for a summary of net revenues by segment and by geographic location.

Over the past five fiscal years, our sales have grown over 40% to $6.860 billion in Fiscal 2012 from $4.880 billion in Fiscal
2008. This growth has been largely a result of both our acquisitions and organic growth. We have diversified our business by channels of distribution, price point and target consumer, as well as by geography. Our global reach is extensive, with
Ralph Lauren-branded merchandise available through our wholesale distribution channels at over 11,000 different retail locations worldwide. In addition to our wholesale distribution, we sell directly to customers throughout the world via our 379
retail stores; our 474 concessions-based shop-within-shops; and our six e-commerce sites.

We continue to invest in our
business. In the past five fiscal years, we have invested approximately $1.479 billion for acquisitions and capital improvements, primarily funded through strong operating cash flow. We intend to continue to execute our long-term strategy,
which includes expanding our presence internationally, extending our direct-to-consumer reach, expanding our accessories and other product and brand offerings, and investing in our operational infrastructure. See “Objectives and
Opportunities”for further discussion of our long-term strategy.

We have been controlled by the Lauren family since
the founding of our Company. As of March 31, 2012, Mr. Ralph Lauren, or entities controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately 73% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the Company.

Seasonality of Business

Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of wholesale sales in our second and fourth quarters and higher retail sales in our second and third quarters. These trends result
primarily from the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and key vacation travel, back-to-school and holiday shopping periods in the Retail segment. As a result of the growth and other changes in our business, along with changes in consumer
spending patterns and the macroeconomic environment, historical quarterly operating trends and working capital requirements may not be indicative of future performances. In addition, fluctuations in sales, operating income and cash flows in any
fiscal quarter may be affected by, among other things, the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales, such as changes in weather patterns.

Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital requirements typically increase during the first half of the fiscal year as inventory builds to support peak shipping/selling periods
and, accordingly, typically decrease during the second half of the fiscal year as inventory is shipped/sold. Cash provided by operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the fiscal year due to reduced working capital requirements
during that period.

Objectives and Opportunities

Our core strengths include a portfolio of global luxury lifestyle brands, a strong and experienced management team, a proven ability to
develop and extend our brands distributed through multiple retail channels in global markets, a disciplined investment philosophy and a solid balance sheet. Despite the various risks and uncertainties associated with the current global economic
environment (as discussed further in Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Global Economic Developments” below, we believe our core
strengths will allow us to continue to execute our strategy for long-term sustainable growth in revenue, net income and operating cash flow.






As our business has grown, our portfolio mix and brand control has evolved from primarily
that of a mono-brand U.S.-centric menswear wholesaler with a broad array of product and geographic licenses to that of a portfolio of lifestyle brands with a “direct control” model over most of our brands, products and international
territories. We believe that this broader and better-diversified portfolio mix positions us for ongoing growth, offering our customers a range of products, price points and channels of distribution, and our size and global operations favorably
position us to take advantage of synergies in design, sourcing and distribution.

While balancing our long-term key strategic
objectives with our near-term priorities to manage through the various risks associated with the current global economic environment, we intend to continue to pursue select opportunities for growth during the course of Fiscal 2013 and beyond. These
opportunities and continued investment initiatives include:



•International Growth Opportunities



ØContinued development and growth of our businesses in Asia, including the continued execution of our plans to reposition our existing distribution
network by securing brand-appropriate retail locations and maximizing our distribution opportunities in conjunction with the implementation of new merchandising, marketing and advertising strategies to elevate brand perception and positioning in the
region; and



ØContinued growth of our European businesses, including the expansion of ourDenim & Supply Ralph LaurenandLaurenemerging
brands, as well as the extension of our accessory product lines through existing and new channels of distribution.



•Direct-to-Consumer Growth Opportunities



ØContinued global growth and expansion of our freestanding stores and concession shops and our e-commerce operations, including the growth of our
recently launched Ralph Lauren sites in Europe and Club Monaco site in the U.S. in connection with the implementation of new and refined merchandising and marketing strategies, as well as the introduction of e-commerce in Asia and Canada.



•Product Innovation and Brand Extension Growth Opportunities



ØFurther development and broadening of our accessories product offerings, including handbags, footwear, small leathergoods and belts, eyewear and
watches/jewelry, and expansion of our related distribution into new channels and geographies;



ØContinued expansion of ourDenim & Supply Ralph Lauren,Lauren,Club MonacoandRRLproduct assortments across
various categories on a global basis; and



ØContinued expansion of our Home and dresses product lines across our wholesale and other distribution channels.



•Investment in Operational Infrastructure



ØFurther system enhancements and implementations to standardize operating platforms and meet the expanding needs of our global organization. Such
enhancements include the continued implementation of a global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi-year initiative, the next phase of which involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new
system, including customer order-to-cash and global merchandise procurement; and



ØSupply chain enhancements to achieve efficiencies through the global coordination of our manufacturing and logistics operations, including in the areas
of product management, merchandise alignment and planning.



•Global Talent Development and Management



ØContinue to enhance our organizational development and talent management to support our global growth initiatives, including the refinement of
succession plans for our key leadership positions.






•Cash Flow Reinvestment



ØContinue to make disciplined reinvestments of our cash flows from operations to support our global growth, including through capital improvements and
investments in new distribution channel and product opportunities, with an increased focus on our international initiatives.

Recent Developments

Discontinuance of American Living

During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012, we decided with our wholesale partner J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
(“JCPenney”) to discontinue the majority of the products sold under theAmerican Livingbrand created for and exclusively sold to JCPenney, effective for the Fall 2012 wholesale selling season. As a result of this decision, we
recorded pretax restructuring charges of approximately $3 million primarily related to severance actions during Fiscal 2012. The discontinuance of these American Living product lines is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated or segment results.

Asia-Pacific Restructuring Plan

In May 2011, we initiated a restructuring plan to reposition and upgrade our existing distribution network and merchandising operations in
the Asia-Pacific region, which includes mainland China, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Japan and South Korea (the “Asia-Pacific Restructuring Plan”). This plan includes a reduction in workforce and the closure of certain
retail stores and concession shops that do not support the new merchandising strategy. Actions related to the Asia-Pacific Restructuring Plan resulted in pretax charges of approximately $6 million in Fiscal 2012.

Assumption of Bedding and Bath Operations

In May 2011, the license for ourLauren by Ralph Laurenbedding and bath products previously held by WestPoint Home, Inc. expired in accordance with the underlying agreement and we assumed control
over this wholesale business. No significant payment or other consideration was provided related to this license expiration. WestPoint Home, Inc. will remain the exclusive licensee for our Lauren basic bedding program, which includes utility and
blanket products.

South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition

On January 1, 2011, in connection with the transition of the Ralph Lauren-branded apparel and accessories business in South Korea
(the “Ralph Lauren South Korea business”) from a licensed to a wholly owned operation, we acquired certain net assets (including inventory) and employees from Doosan Corporation (“Doosan”) in exchange for an initial payment of
approximately $25 million plus an additional aggregate payment of approximately $22 million (the “South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition”). Doosan was our licensee for the Ralph Lauren South Korea business. We funded the South
Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition with available cash on-hand. In conjunction with the South Korea Licensed Operations Acquisition, we also entered into a transition services agreement with Doosan for the provision of certain financial and
information systems services, which was subsequently extended through June 30, 2012.

Our Brands and Products

Since 1967, our distinctive brand image has been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, price
tiers and markets. Our products, which include apparel, accessories (including footwear) and fragrance collections for men and women as well as childrenswear and home furnishings, comprise one of the world’s most widely recognized families of
consumer brands. Reflecting a distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the direction of internationally renowned designer Mr. Ralph Lauren, we have had a considerable
influence on the way people dress and the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world. We combine consumer insight with our design, marketing and imaging skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad lifestyle product
collections with a unified vision:






•Apparel— Products include extensive collections of men’s, women’s and children’s clothing;



•Accessories— Products encompass a broad range, including footwear, eyewear, watches, fine jewelry, hats, belts and leathergoods,
including handbags and luggage;



•Home— Coordinated home products include bedding and bath products, furniture, fabric and wallpaper, paint, tabletop and
giftware; and



•Fragrance— Fragrance products are sold under our Big Pony, Romance, Love, Polo, Lauren, Safari, Ralph and Black Label brands,
among others.

Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our domestic internet sites, including
RalphLauren.com, Rugby.com and ClubMonaco.com, as well as our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites in Europe, which service the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany and Austria.

Ralph Lauren Purple Label

In the time-honored tradition of bespoke clothing and haberdashery, Ralph Lauren Purple Label presents a level of sartorial craftsmanship unparalleled today. Refined suitings are hand-tailored from a
selection of fine fabrics. Custom-tailored Made-to-Measure suits are hand-constructed by artisans trained in the art of handmade clothing. Sophisticated sportswear and dandy-inspired dress furnishings are designed with meticulous attention to every
detail. Dedicated to the highest level of quality and elegance, Ralph Lauren Purple Label is the ultimate expression of luxury for the modern gentleman. Ralph Lauren Purple Label also offers benchmade footwear and Made-to-Order dress furnishings,
accessories and luggage, as well as hand monogramming and custom engraving services. Ralph Lauren Purple Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren
e-commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Men’s Black Label

With a sharp, modern attitude, Ralph Lauren Black Label is the essence of sophisticated dressing for men. Classic suitings feature
razor-sharp tailoring and dramatically lean silhouettes. Luxe, racy sportswear is crafted from fine fabrics and designed with subtle references to technical performance wear. Ultra-stylish yet timeless, the Black Label collection is sleek, bold and
masculine. Ralph Lauren Black Label is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, a limited selection of specialty stores and better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Men’s Black Label Denim

Introduced in 2011, Ralph Lauren Men’s Black Label Denim represents the next evolution of luxe, ultramodern denim for men, with fashion-forward fits, chic signature details and a focus on authentic
innovative treatments. With a renegade edge and international appeal, Black Label Denim redefines iconic pieces in luxury and rugged fabrics, with accents that capture Ralph Lauren’s unique sensibility, from utility and leather to western and
automotive. Confident and masculine, Ralph Lauren combines state-of-the-art denim and superfine sportswear to create the ultimate in cool sophistication. Black Label Denim is available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, at select better
department stores, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including at RalphLauren.com.

Polo Ralph Lauren

Authentic and iconic, Polo is the original symbol of the modern preppy lifestyle. Combining Ivy League classics and
time-honored English haberdashery with downtown styles and All-American sporting looks, Polo sportswear and tailored clothing present a one-of-a-kind vision of menswear that is stylish and timeless, and appeals to all generations of men. Polo’s
signature aesthetic — along with our renowned polo player logo — is recognized worldwide as a mark of contemporary heritage excellence. Polo is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department
stores, select specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.






Lauren for Men

Classic and polished, Lauren for Men conveys a spirit of tradition with a contemporary attitude. A complete collection of men’s
tailored clothing, including suits, sport coats, dress shirts, dress pants, tuxedos, topcoats and ties, the Lauren men’s line offers the sophisticated spirit and preppy heritage of Ralph Lauren menswear at a more accessible price point. A soft,
natural shoulder and modern construction details ensure elegant styling with superior comfort and the integrity of a well-made garment. Lauren for Men is available at select department stores around the world.

Ralph by Ralph Lauren

Superior fabrics and a precise, impeccable construction define the distinguished aesthetic of the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection for men. Suit separates, sport coats, vests and topcoats are all
fashioned with the hallmarks of better men’s suitings, from half-canvas jacket constructions and high-quality Bemberg linings to hand-finished seams, felled cuffs and hems and reinforcements at natural points of wear. Timeless and unmistakably
Ralph Lauren, the Ralph by Ralph Lauren collection offers refined luxury at an excellent value. Ralph by Ralph Lauren is available exclusively at Dillard’s stores.

Ralph Lauren Women’s Collection

Each runway season, Ralph
Lauren’s most dramatic vision of women’s fashion is presented to the world. Timeless and sophisticated, Women’s Collection reflects Ralph Lauren’s definitive design philosophy in its groundbreaking juxtapositions of feminine
glamour with impeccable tailoring once found only in menswear. From exquisite hand-embroidered evening gowns worn on the red carpet to luxurious hand-finished cashmere tweed suitings to chic vintage denim inspired by rustic Americana, Women’s
Collection is the epitome of modern, rarefied fashion. Ralph Lauren Women’s Collection is available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, in an exclusive selection of fine specialty stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites,
including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Women’s Black Label

Black Label is the essence of sleek, modern sophistication for women. Proportions are chic and dramatic, ranging from menswear-inspired
silhouettes to shimmering and feminine eveningwear. Fabrics are ultra-luxe and textural, color statements are rich and striking, and racy technical references infuse this glamorous collection with a bold, sexy edge. Black Label is offered in select
Ralph Lauren stores around the world, designer boutiques, fine specialty stores, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Blue Label

Modern and eclectic with a sexy, youthful spirit, Blue Label embodies the iconic Ralph Lauren sensibility in its mix of vintage Ivy League prep, heritage equestrian, romantic bohemian and rugged Western
inspirations. Unmistakably Ralph Lauren in its elegance and sophistication, Blue Label defines a fresh, free-spirited femininity. Blue Label is offered in Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren
e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Lauren by Ralph Lauren

Lauren translates the sophisticated luxury of Ralph Lauren womenswear into an affordable wardrobe for every occasion. From timeless
essentials with special finishing touches to polished silhouettes with a chic, modern spirit, Lauren maintains an elegant, feminine heritage while making strong seasonal fashion statements. Lauren Active infuses a fashion sensibility into practical
sports apparel for golf, tennis, yoga and weekend wear. Lauren Jeans Co. presents a fresh perspective on denim with a breadth of styles and a complementary collection of sportswear items. Lauren Handbags, first introduced for the Fall 2010 season,
add to a wide range of accessories offerings from Lauren, including belts, scarves, gloves, footwear and jewelry. Lauren offers a range of true, consistent fits from Petites to Women’s sizes. Lauren is sold in select department stores in the
U.S., Europe, Canada and Mexico, and is also available online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.






Pink Pony

Established in 2000, Pink Pony is Ralph Lauren’s worldwide initiative in the fight against cancer. Pink Pony supports programs for
early diagnosis, education, treatment and research, and is dedicated to bringing patient navigation and quality cancer care to medically underserved communities. A percentage of sales from all Pink Pony products benefits the Pink Pony Fund of the
Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation and other major cancer charities around the world. Pink Pony consists of feminine, slim-fitting women’s sportswear and accessories crafted in luxurious fabrics. From hooded sweatshirts and cotton mesh polos to
canvas tote bags and cashmere yoga pants, all Pink Pony items feature our iconic pink Polo Player — a symbol of our commitment to the fight against cancer. Pink Pony is available at select Ralph Lauren stores and online at our Ralph
Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. In October 2009, Pink Pony was first introduced at Bloomingdale’s, and is available on select occasions. To learn more about Pink Pony and our Company’s other philanthropic efforts,
please visit RalphLauren.com/Philanthropy.

RRL

RRL captures an authentic American spirit with a focus on integrity, character and timeworn charm. Founded in 1993 and named after Ralph
and Ricky Lauren’s “Double RL” ranch in Colorado, RRL offers a mix of selvage denim, vintage apparel and accessories and rugged sportswear with roots in workwear and military gear. With denim at the heart of the brand, RRL is
dedicated to time-honored details and the highest quality workmanship — from ring-spun long-staple cotton yarns to traditional dyeing techniques to hand-applied artisanal finishes that result in one-of-a-kind, exceptionally durable
pieces. In Spring 2010, RRL launched womenswear with the same vintage heritage. RRL is available at RRL stores and select Ralph Lauren stores around the world, as well as online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

RLX Ralph Lauren

Created to answer the demand for superior high-performance outfitting, RLX Ralph Lauren for men and women unites the highest standards of luxury, technology and style. From cutting-edge functional gear
for professional athletes to exceptionally luxe lifestyle apparel for modern living, RLX Ralph Lauren defines the next evolution of design with a philosophy focused on purity of form, unique construction techniques and innovative fabrications. The
RLX Ralph Lauren line is available around the world at select Ralph Lauren stores, top specialty and department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren

Introduced in Fall 2011 and anchored in Ralph Lauren’s authentic American heritage, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren for men and women offers a new approach to denim and sportswear, capturing the
weathered character of found vintage pieces and styling them with an eclectic, individualistic spirit. For her, unexpected mixes — feminine with utility, rough with romantic — create sexy, bohemian style. For him,
American classics mix with rugged outdoorsman looks to define a new carefree tradition of denim dressing. Artisanal details — from unique treatments and slash-and-mending to metalwork and beading — complete this modern
statement of free-spirited, down-to-earth denim. Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available domestically at Macy’s, in Europe at our inaugural Denim & Supply store in Amsterdam and select specialty stores, in Canada at select
specialty stores, and in Asia at select specialty stores and concession-based shop-within-shops. In addition, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren is available online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Golf

Tested and worn by top-ranked professional golfers, Polo Golf for men and Ralph Lauren Golf for women define heritage excellence in the world of golf. With a sharpened focus on the needs of the modern
player but always rooted in the rich design tradition of Ralph Lauren, the Golf collections combine state-of-the-art performance wear with luxurious finishing touches for collections that travel effortlessly between the course and the clubhouse. The
RLX Golf collection is ultramodern, graphic and dedicated to performance-driven design. From progressive fits and sophisticated styles to the technologically advanced fabrics, RLX golf is the ultimate in functional luxury. Ralph Lauren is proud to
sponsor Tom Watson, Davis Love III, Jonathan Byrd, Morgan Pressel,






Luke Donald, Webb Simpson, Matteo Manassero, Billy Horschel, Ben Martin and Charles Howell III. The Polo, Ralph Lauren and RLX Golf collections are available in select Ralph Lauren stores around
the world, the most exclusive private clubs and resorts, and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Rugby

Launched in 2004, Rugby translates Ralph Lauren’s legacy
of authentic prep into an eclectic, irreverent collection for young men and women. Cool and rebellious, vintage varsity and heritage classics are reinvented with a chic downtown flair and playful, sexy vibe for an individualistic approach to
personal style. Iconic logos, vintage patches and spirited crests give Rugby a bold, one-of-a-kind edge. The Rugby collections are available at Rugby stores throughout the U.S. and at Rugby.com, as well as at our international Rugby stores in
the U.K. and Japan, including our recently opened Rugby store in Nagoya, Japan.

Ralph Lauren Childrenswear

Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is designed to reflect the timeless heritage and modern spirit of Ralph Lauren’s
collections for men and women. Signature classics, including iconic polo knit shirts and luxurious cashmere cable sweaters, are interpreted in the most sophisticated and vibrant colors. Fashionable styles are inspired by Ralph Lauren’s unique
vision each season — from All-American sportswear with preppy and equestrian inspirations to tailored and elegant ensembles for special occasions. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is available in a full range of sizes for children, from
Layette, Infant and Toddler to Girls size 16 and Boys size 20. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear can be found in select Ralph Lauren stores, better department stores and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Accessories (including Footwear)

Ralph Lauren Watches

In 2008, Ralph Lauren launched his premier collection of watches in partnership with internationally renowned luxury group Compagnie Financiere Richemont SA (“Richemont”). The three timepiece
collections — the iconic Ralph Lauren Stirrup, the refined Ralph Lauren Slim Classique and the performance-inspired Ralph Lauren Sporting — embody Ralph Lauren’s passion for impeccable quality and exquisite design.
Ralph Lauren timepieces feature the finest in Swiss Made manufacture movements and some of the world’s most luxurious materials — from pure platinum and polished 18-carat gold cases to enamel dials, traditional guilloché
patterns and full-cut diamonds. Each year, Ralph Lauren Watches debuts new designs that continue this legacy of authentic, high-end watchmaking, with select styles available in limited editions. Ralph Lauren Watches are available at select Ralph
Lauren stores around the world and only the finest watch retailers.






Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry

In 2010, Ralph Lauren Watch & Jewelry Co. introduced the premier collections of Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry in celebration of Ralph
Lauren’s new women’s flagship store in New York City. Inspired by brilliance, movement and the alluring tradition of fine jewelry, this debut unveiled several collections including the Ralph Lauren Diamond Link Collection, the Ralph Lauren
Equestrian Collection, the Ralph Lauren Monogram Collection, the Ralph Lauren Chunky Chains Collection and the Ralph Lauren New Romantic Collection — all capturing the glamour and craftsmanship of Ralph Lauren’s most luxurious
designs. The fine jewelry collections include elegantly setpavédiamond links, classic equestrian motifs stylized in shimmering diamonds, romantic chandelier earrings, chic chunky chains and lustrous pearl strands with a dazzling
diamond monogram. Each piece is handcrafted using precious materials and intricate finishing techniques, highlighting a unique beauty and graceful silhouette that is signature Ralph Lauren. Ralph Lauren Fine Jewelry is available exclusively at the
888 Madison Avenue flagship store in New York City, the Avenue Montaigne flagship store in Paris and the Peninsula store in Hong Kong.

Fragrance

In 1978, Mr. Ralph Lauren expanded his lifestyle
brand to encompass the world of fragrance, launching Lauren for women and Polo for men. Since then, Ralph Lauren Fragrance has captured the essence of Ralph Lauren’s men’s and women’s brands, from the timeless heritage of Lauren and
Polo to the sophisticated beauty of Polo Black for men and Romance for women to the modern, fresh Ralph fragrances for her, designed to appeal to a younger audience. Women’s fragrances include Safari, Polo Sport, Ralph Lauren Blue, Lauren,
Romance, the Ralph Collection, Notorious, Love, and the Big Pony collection. Men’s fragrances include Safari, Polo Sport, Polo Blue, Romance, Romance Silver, Purple Label, Explorer, Polo Black, Double Black, Red, White and Blue, and the Big
Pony collection. Ralph Lauren fragrances are available in department stores, specialty and duty free stores, perfumeries, select Ralph Lauren stores and online at RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Home

As the first American fashion designer to create an all-encompassing collection for the home, Ralph Lauren presents home furnishings and accessories that reflect the enduring style and exquisite
craftsmanship synonymous with the name Ralph Lauren. Whether inspired by time-honored tradition, the utmost in modern sophistication or the beauty of rare objects collected around the world, Ralph Lauren Home is dedicated to fine materials and great
attention to detail for the ultimate in artisanal luxury. The collections include furniture, bed and bath linens, china, crystal, silver, decorative accessories and gifts, as well as lighting, paint, fabric, trimmings, wallcovering and
floorcovering. Ralph Lauren Home offers exclusive luxury goods at select Ralph Lauren stores, trade showrooms and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com. The complete world of Ralph Lauren Home can be explored online
at RalphLaurenHome.com.

Lauren Home

Lauren Home presents a signature design sensibility that combines heritage elegance with a fresh, modern flair. Finely crafted and highly accessible for any well-appointed home, Lauren Home offers a wide
array of collections that range from classic to modern, including bedding, bath, furniture, tabletop, gifts, decorative accessories, floorcovering and lighting. Lauren Home is available at select department stores, home specialty stores around the
world and online at our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites, including RalphLauren.com.

Ralph Lauren Paint

Introduced in 1995, Ralph Lauren Paint offers exceptional-quality interior paint ranked high in the industry for
performance. Inspired by classic and modern lifestyles from the world of Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Paint features a signature palette of over 500 colors and a collection of unique finishes and innovative techniques. An extension of the Ralph Lauren
Home lifestyle, Ralph Lauren Paint is an attainable product designed to reach a broad, yet selective audience. Ralph Lauren Paint is offered at select specialty stores in the U.S. The complete color palette, paint how-to’s and a guide to
professional painters are online at RalphLaurenPaint.com.






Club Monaco

Founded in 1985, Club Monaco is an international destination for affordable, stylish luxury. Each season, Club Monaco designs,
manufactures and markets its own clothing and accessories for men and women, offering key fashion pieces with modern, urban sophistication and a selection of updated classics — from the perfect white shirt and black pencil skirt to
refined suiting and Italian cashmere. The brand’s signature aesthetic is defined by clean, contemporary design and a palette of versatile neutrals infused with pops of vibrant colors. Club Monaco apparel and accessories are available at Club
Monaco stores around the world, as well as online in the U.S. at the recently launched ClubMonaco.com e-commerce site. In April 2012, Club Monaco further expanded its e-commerce presence in North America by launching ClubMonaco.ca in Canada. Club
Monaco is currently also available in Europe at select department stores and specialty shops.

Global Brand Concepts

Chaps

Chaps translates the classic heritage and timeless aesthetic of Ralph Lauren into an accessible line for men, women, children and the home. From casual basics designed for versatility and ease of wear to
smart, finely tailored silhouettes perfect for business and more formal occasions, Chaps creates interchangeable classics that are both enduring and affordable. The Chaps men’s collection is available at select department and specialty stores,
primarily in the U.S. The Chaps collections for women, children and the home are available exclusively at Kohl’s Corporation and Kohls.com.

American Living

Available exclusively at JCPenney and JCP.com,
American Living offers classic American style with a fresh, modern spirit and authentic sensibility. During Fiscal 2012, we decided with JCPenney to discontinue the majority of the products sold under the American Living brand, effective for the
Fall 2012 wholesale selling season.

Our Wholesale Segment

Our Wholesale segment sells our products to leading upscale and certain mid-tier department stores, specialty stores and golf and pro
shops, both domestically and internationally. We have continued to focus on elevating our brand by improving in-store product assortment and presentation, and improving full-price sell-throughs to consumers. As of the end of Fiscal 2012, our Ralph
Lauren-branded products were sold through over 11,000 doors worldwide and during Fiscal 2012, we invested approximately $84 million in related shop-within-shops primarily in domestic and international department and specialty stores. Our products
are also sold through the e-commerce sites of certain of our wholesale customers.

The primary product offerings sold through
our wholesale channels of distribution include menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories (including footwear) and home furnishings. Our collection brands — Women’s Ralph Lauren Collection and Black Label and Men’s
Purple Label and Black Label — are distributed worldwide through a limited number of premier fashion retailers. Department stores are our major wholesale customers in North America. In Europe, our wholesale sales are a varying mix of
sales to both department stores and specialty shops, depending on the country. We also distribute product to certain licensed stores run by franchisees in Europe. In addition, our Club Monaco products are distributed through select department stores
and specialty shops in Europe. In Japan, our wholesale products are distributed primarily through shop-within-shops at premier and top-tier department stores, and the mix of business is weighted to Women’s Blue Label. In Greater China and
Southeast Asia region, which is comprised of China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand, our wholesale products are sold at mid and top-tier department stores, and the mix of business is primarily weighted
to Men’s and Women’s Blue Label. We sell the majority of our excess and out-of-season products through secondary distribution channels worldwide, including our retail factory stores.






Worldwide Distribution Channels

The following table presents the number of doors by geographic location, in which Ralph Lauren-branded products distributed by our
Wholesale segment were sold to consumers in our primary channels of distribution as of March 31, 2012:



LocationNumber ofDoorsThe Americas6,587Europe4,377Asia83Total11,047

In addition, American Living and Chaps-branded products distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold
domestically through approximately 1,800 doors as of March 31, 2012.

We have three key wholesale customers that generate
significant sales volume. For Fiscal 2012, these customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 40% of total wholesale revenues, with Macy’s, Inc. representing approximately 20% of total wholesale revenues.

Our product brands are sold primarily through our own sales forces. Our Wholesale segment maintains its primary showrooms in New York
City. In addition, we maintain regional showrooms in Chicago, Dallas, Milan, Paris, London, Munich, Madrid, Stockholm and Tokyo.

Shop-within-Shops.As a critical element of our distribution to department stores, we and our
licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to enhance brand recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines by the department stores and to differentiate the presentation of products. Shop-within-shop fixed assets primarily include
items such as customized freestanding fixtures, wall cases and components, decorative items and flooring.

As of March 31,
2012, we had approximately 18,000 shop-within-shops dedicated to our Ralph Lauren-branded wholesale products worldwide. The size of our shop-within-shops ranges from approximately 300 to 7,400 square feet. We normally share in the cost of
building-out these shop-within-shops with our wholesale customers.

Basic Stock Replenishment
Program.Basic products such as knit shirts, chino pants, oxford cloth shirts, and selected accessories (including footwear) and Home products can be ordered at any time through our basic stock replenishment programs.
We generally ship these products within two-to-five days of order receipt.

Our Retail Segment

As of March 31, 2012, our Retail segment consisted of 379 stores worldwide, totaling approximately 2.9 million gross square
feet, 474 concessions-based shop-within-shops and six e-commerce websites. The extension of our direct-to-consumer reach is a primary long-term strategic goal.

Ralph Lauren Retail Stores

Our Ralph Lauren retail stores reinforce
the luxury image and distinct sensibility of our brands and feature exclusive lines that are not sold in domestic department stores. We opened 10 new Ralph Lauren stores, acquired 3 previously licensed stores, and closed 16 Ralph Lauren stores in
Fiscal 2012. Our retail stores are primarily situated in major upscale street locations and upscale regional malls, generally in large urban markets.






We operated the following Ralph Lauren retail stores as of March 31, 2012:



LocationRalph Lauren StoresThe Americas61Europe26Asia16Total103

Ralph Lauren stores feature the broadest range of the Ralph Lauren apparel, accessories and Home product
assortments in an atmosphere reflecting the distinctive attitude and luxury positioning of the Ralph Lauren brand. Our seven flagship Ralph Lauren store locations showcase our upper-end luxury styles and products and demonstrate our most refined
merchandising techniques.

In addition to generating sales of our products, our worldwide Ralph Lauren retail stores set,
reinforce and capitalize on the image of our brands. Our Ralph Lauren stores range in size from approximately 800 to 38,000 square feet.

Club Monaco Retail Stores

Our Club Monaco retail stores feature
fashion apparel and accessories for both men and women. The brand’s clean and contemporary signature style forms the foundation of a modern wardrobe.

As of March 31, 2012, we operated 59 Club Monaco retail stores in the U.S. and Canada. Our Club Monaco stores range in size from approximately 1,700 to 17,400 square feet.

Rugby Retail Stores

Rugby is a vertical retail format featuring an aspirational lifestyle collection of apparel and accessories for men and women. The brand is characterized by a youthful, preppy attitude which resonates
throughout the line and the store experience.

As of March 31, 2012, we operated 16 Rugby retail stores, including 13
stores in the U.S., two stores in Asia and one store in Europe. Our Rugby stores range in size from approximately 900 to 7,000 square feet.

Factory Retail Stores

We extend our reach to additional consumer
groups through our 201 factory stores worldwide. Our factory stores are generally located in outlet centers. During Fiscal 2012, we added 10 new factory stores, net.

We operated the following factory retail stores as of March 31, 2012:



LocationFactory StoresThe Americas143Europe35Asia23Total201



•Our factory stores inthe Americasoffer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings and fragrances.
Ranging in size from approximately 2,500 to 20,000 square feet, with an average of approximately 9,800 square feet, these stores are principally located in major outlet centers in 39 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico.



•Our factory stores inEuropeoffer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories, home furnishings and fragrances. Ranging
in size from approximately 1,400 to 19,700 square feet, with an average of approximately 6,700 square feet, these stores are located in 13 countries, principally in major outlet centers.






•Our factory stores inAsiaoffer selections of our menswear, womenswear, childrenswear, accessories and fragrances. Ranging in size from
approximately 2,800 to 11,800 square feet, with an average of approximately 6,600 square feet, these stores are primarily located throughout Japan and in or near other major cities within the Asia-Pacific region, principally in major
outlet centers.

Factory stores obtain products from our suppliers, our product licensing partners and our
retail and e-commerce stores, and serve as a secondary distribution channel for our excess and out-of-season products.

Concessions-based Shop-within-Shops

In Asia, the terms of trade for shop-within-shops are largely conducted on a concessions basis, whereby inventory continues to be owned by us (not the department store) until ultimate sale to the end
consumer. The salespeople involved in the sales transaction are generally our employees and not those of the department store.

As of March 31, 2012, we had 474 concessions-based shop-within-shops at 209 retail locations dedicated to our products, primarily in
Asia. The size of our concessions-based shop-within-shops ranges from approximately 180 to 4,300 square feet. We share in the cost of building-out these shop-within-shops with our department store partners.

E-commerce Websites

In addition to our stores, our Retail segment sells products online through our e-commerce channel, which includes:



•Ourdomesticsites located at www.RalphLauren.com and www.Rugby.com, as well as our recently launched Club Monaco site located at
www.ClubMonaco.com; and



•OurEuropeansites for the United Kingdom located at www.RalphLauren.co.uk and for France (which also services the surrounding countries of
Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands) located at www.RalphLauren.fr, as well as our recently launched site for Germany (which also services Austria) located at www.RalphLauren.de.

Our Ralph Lauren e-commerce sites in the U.S. and Europe offer our customers access to a broad array of Ralph Lauren apparel, accessories
and Home products, allow us to reach retail customers on a multi-channel basis and reinforce the luxury image of our brands. Our domestic RalphLauren.com site averaged 4.3 million unique visitors a month and acquired approximately 600,000 new
customers, resulting in over 900,000 total customers in Fiscal 2012.

Rugby.com offers clothing and accessories for purchase
along with style tips, unique videos and blog-based content. Rugby.com offers an extensive array of Rugby products for young men and women within a full lifestyle destination.

In March 2012, we expanded our e-commerce presence with the launch of ClubMonaco.com in the U.S. Subsequent to the end of Fiscal 2012, in April 2012, we further expanded our e-commerce operations in the
Americas by launching ClubMonaco.ca, our first Canadian retail e-commerce site. These sites offer our domestic and Canadian customers access to our Club Monaco’s global assortment of womenswear, menswear and accessories product lines, as well
as select online exclusives.

Our Licensing Segment

Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight, design, and marketing skills with the specific product or geographic
competencies of our licensing partners to create and build new businesses. We generally seek out licensing partners who:



•are leaders in their respective markets;



•contribute the majority of the product development costs;



•provide the operational infrastructure required to support the business; and



•own the inventory.






We grant our product licensees the right to manufacture and sell at wholesale specified
categories of products under one or more of our trademarks. We grant our international geographic area licensing partners’ exclusive rights to distribute certain brands or classes of our products and operate retail stores in specific
international territories. These geographic area licensees source products from us, our product licensing partners and independent sources. Each licensing partner pays us royalties based upon its sales of our products, generally subject to a minimum
royalty requirement for the right to use our trademarks and design services. In addition, licensing partners may be required to allocate a portion of their revenues to advertise our products and share in the creative costs associated with these
products. Larger allocations are required in connection with launches of new products or in new territories. Our licenses generally have one to five-year terms and may grant the licensees conditional renewal options.

We work closely with our licensing partners to ensure that their products are developed, marketed and distributed so as to reach the
intended market opportunity and to present consistently to consumers worldwide the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution,
advertising and promotion of Ralph Lauren products are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The result is a consistent identity for Ralph Lauren products across product categories and international markets.

Approximately 40% of our licensing revenue for Fiscal 2012 was derived from four licensing partners: Luxottica Group, S.p.A. (12%),
Peerless, Inc. (10%), The Warnaco Group, Inc. (9%) and L’Oreal S.A. (9%).

Product Licenses

The following table lists our principal product licensing agreements for men’s sportswear, men’s tailored
clothing, men’s underwear and sleepwear, eyewear and fragrances as of March 31, 2012. Except as noted in the table, these product licenses cover the U.S. or North America only.



Licensing PartnerLicensed Product CategoryHanes BrandsMen’s Underwear and SleepwearL’Oreal S.A. (global)Men’s and Women’s Fragrances, Cosmetics, Color and Skin Care ProductsLuxottica Group, S.p.A. (global)EyewearPeerless, Inc.Men’s Chaps, Lauren, Ralph and American Living Tailored ClothingThe Warnaco Group, Inc.Men’s Chaps Sportswear

International Licenses

We believe that international markets offer additional opportunities for our quintessential American designs and lifestyle image. We work
with our international licensing partners to facilitate international growth in their respective territories. International expansion/growth opportunities may include:



•the roll out of new products and brands following their launch in the U.S.;



•the introduction of additional product lines;



•the entrance into new international markets;



•the addition of Ralph Lauren stores in these markets; and



•the expansion and upgrade of shop-within-shop networks in these markets.






The following table identifies our principal international area licensing partners
(excluding Ralph Lauren Home and Club Monaco licensees) as of March 31, 2012:



Licensing PartnerTerritoryOroton Group/PRL AustraliaAustralia and New ZealandP.R.L. Enterprises, S.A.(1)Panama, Aruba, Curacao, the Cayman Islands, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Belize, Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru, Antigua, Barbados, the Dominican
Republic, St. Lucia, Trinidad and Tobago, and VenezuelaCommercial Madison, S.A.Chile





(1)Our international licensing agreement with P.R.L. Enterprises, S.A. is due to expire in June 2012, at which point we plan to assume control over
the related product distribution.

Our international licensing partners acquire the right to sell, promote,
market and/or distribute various categories of our products in a given geographic area. These rights may include the right to own and operate retail stores. The economic arrangements are similar to those of our product licensing partners. We design
licensed products either alone or in collaboration with our domestic licensing partners. Our product licensees, whose territories do not include the international geographic area licensees’ territories, generally provide our international
licensing partners with product or patterns, piece goods, manufacturing locations and other information and assistance necessary to achieve product uniformity, for which they are often compensated by these partners.

As of March 31, 2012, our international licensing partners operated 59 Ralph Lauren stores, 27 Ralph Lauren concession shops and 58
Club Monaco stores and shops.

Ralph Lauren Home

Together with our licensing partners, we offer an extensive collection of home products that draw upon and further the design themes of
our other product lines, contributing to our complete lifestyle concept. Products are sold under theRalph Lauren Home,Lauren by Ralph Lauren,ChapsandAmerican Livingbrands in three primary categories: bedding and
bath, home décor and home improvement. As of March 31, 2012, we had agreements with twelve domestic and two international Home product licensing partners, and one international Home product sublicensing partner.

We perform a broader range of services for our Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners than we do for our other licensing partners. These
services include design, operating showrooms, marketing, advertising and, in some cases, sales. In general, the licensing partners manufacture and own the inventory, and ship the products. Our Ralph Lauren Home licensing alliances generally have 3
to 5-year terms and may grant the licensee conditional renewal options.

Ralph Lauren Home products are positioned at the upper
tiers of their respective markets and are offered at a range of price levels. These products are generally distributed through several channels of distribution, including department stores, specialty home furnishings stores, interior design
showrooms, customer direct mail catalogs, home centers and the Internet, as well as our own stores and e-commerce websites. As with our other products, the use of shop-within-shops is central to our department store distribution strategy.






TheRalph Lauren Home,Lauren by Ralph Lauren,ChapsandAmerican
LivingHome products offered by us and our product licensing partners as of March 31, 2012 primarily consisted of the following:



CategoryLicensed ProductLicensing PartnerBedding and BathSheets, bedding accessories, towels, blankets, down comforters, other decorative bedding and accessoriesFremaux-Delorme, Ichida, Kohl’s Department Stores, Inc., J.C. Penney Company, Inc., WestPoint Home, Inc.(1)Home DécorFabric and wallpaperP. Kaufmann, Inc.FurnitureEJ Victor, Inc.Tabletop and giftwareFitz and Floyd, Inc.Window and decorative accessoriesJ.C. Penney Corp., Inc.Home ImprovementInterior paints and stainsAkzo Nobel Paints LLC





(1)In May 2011, the license for ourLauren by Ralph Laurenbedding and bath products previously held by WestPoint Home, Inc. expired in
accordance with the underlying agreement and we assumed control over this wholesale business. WestPoint Home, Inc. remains the exclusive licensee for ourLaurenbasic bedding program, which includes utility and blanket products.

Product Design

Our products reflect a timeless and innovative interpretation of American style with a strong international appeal. Our consistent emphasis on new and distinctive design has been an important contributor
to the prominence, strength and reputation of the Ralph Lauren brands.

All Ralph Lauren products are designed by, or under the
direction of, Mr. Ralph Lauren and our design staff, which is divided into nine departments: Menswear, Women’s Collection, Women’s Ready to Wear, Dresses, Children’s, Accessories (including footwear), Home, Club Monaco and Rugby.
We form design teams around our brands and product categories to develop concepts, themes and products for each brand and category. Through close collaboration with merchandising, sales and production staff, these teams support all three segments of
our business — Wholesale, Retail and Licensing — in order to gain market and other valuable input.

Marketing and Advertising

Our marketing and advertising programs communicate the themes and images of our brands and are integral to our product offering. The majority of our advertising program is created and executed on a
centralized basis through our in-house creative and advertising organization to ensure consistency of presentation, which is complemented by our marketing experts in each region who help to execute our international strategies.

We create distinctive image advertising for our brands, conveying the particular message of each one within the context of the overall
Ralph Lauren aesthetic. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item and include a variety of products offered by ourselves and, in some cases, our licensing partners. Our primary advertising medium is print, with
multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a range of fashion, lifestyle and general interest magazines. Major print advertising campaigns are conducted during the fall and spring retail seasons, with additions throughout the year to
coincide with product deliveries. In addition to print, we utilize television and outdoor media in certain of our marketing programs.

Our digital advertising programs focus on high impact and innovative display units, which allow us to convey our key brand messages and lifestyle positioning. We also develop digital editorial initiatives
that allow for deeper education and engagement around the Ralph Lauren lifestyle, including the Ralph Lauren magazine, style guides and brand videos. We deploy these marketing and advertising initiatives through the Internet, mobile platforms and
social media. Our e-commerce websites present the Ralph Lauren lifestyle on the Internet while offering a broad array of our apparel, accessories and Home product lines.

We advertise in consumer and trade print and digital media properties, and participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with some of our retailer partners. We also provide point-of-sale
fixtures and






signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the presentation of our products at retail locations. In addition, when our licensing partners are required to spend an amount equal to a percent of
their licensed product sales on advertising, we coordinate the advertising placement on their behalf. We expensed approximately $213 million related to the advertising, marketing and promotion of our products in Fiscal 2012.

We market our brand through direct to consumer marketing, events and interactive digital activities. We use our consumer database and
consumer knowledge to guide these activities. We believe our investments in shop-in-shop environments and retail stores, including our flagship locations worldwide, contribute to and enhance the themes of our brands to consumers.

We also conduct a variety of public relations activities. Each of our spring and fall womenswear collections are presented at major
fashion shows in New York City, which typically generate extensive domestic and international media coverage. We introduce each of the spring and fall menswear collections at press presentations in major cities such as New York and Milan, Italy. In
addition, we organize in-store appearances by our models and certain professional athletes.

We are the first exclusive
outfitter for all on-court officials at the Wimbledon tennis tournament and are currently the official outfitter of all on-court officials at the U.S. Open tennis tournament. We are also the exclusive Official Parade Outfitter for the 2012 U.S.
Olympic and Paralympic Teams and have the right to manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote and sell products in the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and associated leisure wear. As part of our involvement with Team U.S.A. for the
Summer 2012 London games, we have established a partnership with athletes serving as brand ambassadors, including members of the gymnastics, swimming, beach volleyball and Paralympics basketball teams, and others.

In January 2011, we entered into a five-year agreement with the United States Golf Association (“USGA”) to be the official
apparel outfitter for the USGA and the U.S. Open Championships and serve as the championship’s largest on-site apparel supplier. Also in 2011, we entered into a five-year agreement with The Royal & Ancient to become an Official Patron
of The Open Championship that is played annually on British links golf courses. As part of this agreement, we are outfitting all officials and staff members at The Open Championship and are serving as the championship’s largest on-site apparel
retailer. We believe our partnerships with prestigious global tournaments reinforce our brand’s sporting heritage.

Sourcing, Production and Quality

We contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own or operate any production facilities. Over 600 different manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel, footwear, accessories and home
products, with no one manufacturer providing more than approximately 3% of our total production during Fiscal 2012. We source both finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include fabric, buttons and other trim. Finished products consist
of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers. In Fiscal 2012, less than 2%, by dollar volume, of our products were produced in the U.S., and over 98%, by dollar volume, were produced outside the U.S., primarily in
Asia, Europe and South America. See “Import Restrictions and other Government Regulations” and Item 1A — “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business — Our business is
subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer’s inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications.”

Most of our businesses must commit to manufacture our garments before we receive customer orders. We also must commit to
purchase fabric from mills well in advance of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers’ demand for a particular product or the need for a particular fabric or yarn, we may sell the excess products or garments made from such fabric or
yarn in our factory stores or through secondary distribution channels.

Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our
global manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia, the Americas and Europe. All products are produced according to our specifications. Production and quality control staff in Asia, the Americas and Europe monitor manufacturing at
supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor certification and compliance programs, so that quality assurance is focused upon as early as possible in the
production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.






Competition

Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances
and home furnishing products, domestic and foreign. Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on the basis of fashion, quality, value and service, which depend on our
ability to:



•anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely manner;



•maintain favorable brand recognition, loyalty and reputation for quality;



•develop and produce high quality products that appeal to consumers;



•appropriately source raw materials at cost-effective prices;



•appropriately price our products;



•provide strong and effective marketing support;



•ensure product availability; and



•obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our products at retail.

See Item 1A — “Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We
Compete — We face intense competition worldwide in the markets in which we operate.”

Distribution

To facilitate global distribution, our products are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution centers around
the world for inspection, sorting, packing and delivery to retail and wholesale customers. This network includes the following primary distribution facilities:



Geographic RegionFacility TypeFacility LocationFacilityOwnershipU.S.Wholesale and Retaildistribution centerGreensboro, North CarolinaOwnedWholesale distribution centerHigh Point, North CarolinaLeasedE-commerce distribution 
center(1)High Point, North CarolinaLeasedDistribution centerChino Hills, CaliforniaThird-partyDistribution centerMiami, FloridaThird-partyCanadaDistribution centerToronto, OntarioThird-partyEuropeDistribution centerParma, Italy(2)Third-partyJapanDistribution centerYokohama, JapanThird-partySouth KoreaDistribution centerGasan, Korea(3)LeasedGreater ChinaDistribution centersHong Kong; China;Singapore; Malaysia;Third-partyand TaiwanSouth AmericaDistribution centersBuenos Aires, Argentina;Third-partyand Montevideo, Uruguay





(1)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for
RalphLauren.com, Rugby.com and ClubMonaco.com.



(2)This distribution center performs customer order fulfillment for our
European businesses, including our e-commerce operations in Europe.



(3)Our distribution center in South Korea is in the process of being
transitioned to a new leased facility in Bugok, South Korea.

All facilities are designed to allow for high
density cube storage and value added services, and utilize unit and carton tracking technology to facilitate process control and inventory management. The distribution network is managed through globally integrated information technology systems.






Management Information Systems

Our management information systems make the design, marketing, manufacturing, importing and distribution of our products more efficient by
providing, among other things:



•comprehensive order processing;



•production and design information;



•accounting information; and



•an enterprise view of information for our design, marketing, manufacturing, importing and distribution functions.

The point-of-sale registers in conjunction with other systems in our stores enable us to track inventory from store receipt to
final sale on a real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial systems, coupled with our point-of-sale registers and software programs, allow for stock replenishment, effective merchandise planning and real-time inventory accounting.
See Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business — Certain legal proceedings, regulatory matters and accounting changes could adversely impact our results of
operations.”

In the U.S. and Europe, we utilize an automated replenishment system, Logility, to facilitate the
processing of basic replenishment orders from our Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the collection of information for planning and forecasting. We have a collaborative relationship with
many of our suppliers that assists us in reducing cash-to-cash cycles in the management of our inventory.

In the U.S. and
Europe, we also utilize an automated allocation system, JDA Allocation, to facilitate the flow of inventory for our Retail segment.

We are in the process of implementing a new global operating and financial reporting system as part of a multi-year plan to integrate and upgrade our operational and financial systems and processes. The
implementation of this global system, scheduled to occur in phases over the next several years, began with the migration of certain of our domestic human resource systems during Fiscal 2011 and continued with transition of certain of our operational
and financial systems to the new global operating and financial reporting system during Fiscal 2012. The next phase of this implementation effort involves the migration of certain core areas of our domestic business to the new system, including
customer order-to-cash and global merchandise procurement, during Fiscal 2013.

See
Item 1A — “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Implementation of management information systems may negatively impact our business”and“Risk
Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our business could suffer if our computer systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate effectively.”

Wholesale Credit Control

We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise principally to major department stores and extend credit based on an evaluation of the customer’s financial capacity and condition, usually
without requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of our customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit insurance to manage the
risks of bad debts. Collection and deduction transactional activities are principally provided through a third party service provider. See Item 1A — “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
Business—Our business could be negatively impacted by any financial instability of our customers.”

Wholesale Backlog

We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel
products approximately three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered to stores. Such orders are generally subject to broad cancellation rights. As of March 31, 2012, our total backlog was $1.360 billion, compared to
$1.391 billion as of April 2, 2011. We expect that substantially all of our backlog orders as of March 31, 2012 will be filled within the next fiscal year. The size of our order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the
timing of the market weeks for our particular






lines during which a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the timing of shipments which varies from year to year with consideration for holidays, consumer trends and concept
plans. As a consequence, a comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to period may not be necessarily meaningful, nor may it be indicative of eventual shipments.

Trademarks

We own the RALPH LAUREN, POLO, POLO BY RALPH LAUREN DESIGN and
the famous polo player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and approximately 100 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we similarly own include:



•LAUREN RALPH LAUREN;



•LAUREN;



•PURPLE LABEL;



•BLUE LABEL;



•BLACK LABEL;



•PINK PONY;



•RALPH;



•RRL;



•CLUB MONACO;



•RUGBY;



•RLX;



•DENIM & SUPPLY RALPH LAUREN;



•CHAPS;



•AMERICAN LIVING; and



•Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics.

Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as trademarks RALPH LAUREN, DOUBLE RL and RRL in perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living animals. The trademarks DOUBLE
RL and RRL are currently used by the Double RL Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition, Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects involving film or theatrical productions (not including or relating to our
business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these companies has no impact on us.

Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings, restaurant and
café services, online services and online publications and beauty products, as well as in connection with retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain
valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in connection with the related products and services and the required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to the
trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. As a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been the object of counterfeiting.
While we have a broad enforcement program which has been generally effective in protecting our intellectual property rights and limiting the sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major markets abroad, we face greater challenges
with respect to enforcing our rights against trademark infringement in certain parts of Asia.






In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our trademarks may not be
clearly established. In the course of our international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks, including POLO and/or a representation of a Polo Player Design,
which impede our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international expansion, we have, in general, successfully resolved such conflicts in the
past through both legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the conflicting marks (see Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our
trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S.”and Item 3 —“Legal Proceedings”for further discussion). Although we have not in the past suffered any
material restraints or restrictions on doing business in desirable markets, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product offerings and introduce trademarks to new markets.

Import Restrictions and Other Government Regulations

Virtually all of our merchandise imported into the Americas, Europe, and Asia is subject to duties. In addition, most of the countries to which we ship could impose safeguard quotas and duties to protect
their local industries from import surges that threaten to create market disruption. The U.S. and other countries may also unilaterally impose additional duties in response to a particular product being imported (from China or other countries)
at unfairly traded prices that in such increased quantities as to cause (or threaten) injury to the relevant domestic industry (generally known as “anti-dumping” actions). If dumping is suspected in the U.S., the U.S. Government may
self-initiate a dumping case on behalf of the U.S. textile industry which could significantly affect our costs. Furthermore, additional duties, generally known as countervailing duties, can also be imposed by the U.S. Government to offset
subsidies provided by a foreign government to foreign manufacturers if the importation of such subsidized merchandise injures or threatens to injure a U.S. industry. Legislative proposals have been introduced, which, if adopted, would treat a
manipulation by China of the value of its currency as actionable under the anti-dumping or countervailing duty laws.

We are
also subject to other international trade agreements and regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, the Caribbean Basin Initiative and other special trade programs. A portion of our
imported products are eligible for certain of these duty-advantaged programs. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our
products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time, impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates
or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication,
shifts of production among countries and manufacturers, as well as through geographical diversification of our sources of supply.

“Risk Factors —  Risks Related to Our
Business —  Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products and could suffer as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, freight or labor or a manufacturer’s inability to produce our goods on time
and to our specifications”

“Risk Factors —  Risks Related to Our Business —  Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
risks.”






Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to regulation in the U.S. and
other countries by other governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer Products Safety Commission, including the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, which
imposes new limitations on the permissible amounts of lead and phthalates allowed in children’s products. These regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing requirements, flammability testing, and product safety particularly
with respect to products used by children. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with those regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
environment. We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental control matters either in the current fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products, licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, and the vendors and
factories with which we contract with for the manufacture and distribution of our products are also subject to regulation. Our agreements require our licensing partners, buying/sourcing agents, vendors and factories to operate in compliance with all
laws and regulations, and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results.

Although we have not suffered any material restriction from doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product
offerings and introduce additional trademarks to new markets.

Employees

As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 25,000 employees, both full and part-time, consisting of approximately 17,000 in the
U.S. and approximately 8,000 in foreign countries. Approximately 30 of our U.S. production and distribution employees in the womenswear business are members of Amalgamated Ladies Garment Cutters Union, Local 10 UNITE (which was previously
known as UNITE HERE) under an industry association collective bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and non-union employees to be good.






Executive Officers

The following are our current executive officers and their principal recent business experience:





Ralph LaurenAge 72Mr. Lauren has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since prior to the Company’s initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the
Advisory Board of the board of directors of the Company’s predecessors since their organization. He founded the Company in 1967 and has provided leadership in the design, marketing, advertising and operational areas since such
time.



Roger N. FarahAge 59Mr. Farah has been President, Chief Operating Officer and a director of the Company since April 2000. He was Chairman of the board of directors of Venator Group, Inc. from
December 1994 to April 2000, and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah is a member of the board of directors of Aetna, Inc. and Progressive Corporation.



Jackwyn L. NemerovAge 60Ms. Nemerov has been Executive Vice President of the Company since September 2004 and a director of the Company since February 2007. From 1998 to 2002, she was President and
Chief Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc.



Tracey T. TravisAge 49Ms. Travis has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since January 2005. Ms. Travis served as Senior Vice President, Finance of Limited
Brands, Inc. from April 2002 until August 2004, and Chief Financial Officer of Intimate Brands, Inc. from April 2001 to April 2002. Prior to that time, Ms. Travis was Chief Financial Officer of the Beverage Can Americas group at American National
Can from 1999 to 2001, and held various finance and operations positions at Pepsi Bottling Group from 1989 to 1999. Ms. Travis is a member of the board of directors of the Lincoln Center Theater and Campbell Soup Company.



Mitchell A. KoshAge 62Mr. Kosh has served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources of the Company since July 2000. He was Senior Vice President of Human Resources of Conseco, Inc., from February
2000 to July 2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive human resource positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting in 1996.






