Item 1.Business.



General



Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation, founded in 1967 by Ralph Lauren,
    is a global leader in the design, marketing and distribution of
    premium lifestyle products, including men’s, women’s
    and children’s apparel, accessories, fragrances and home
    furnishings. We believe that our global reach, breadth of
    product and multi-channel distribution is unique among luxury
    and apparel companies. We operate in three distinct but
    integrated segments: Wholesale, Retail and Licensing.



The tables below show our net revenues and operating profit
    (excluding unallocated corporate expenses and legal and
    restructuring charges) by segment for the last two fiscal years.
    In connection with the closing of the Asia-Pacific Licensed
    Operations Acquisition (as defined and discussed under“Recent Developments”) at the beginning of the
    fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010, we restated our segment
    presentation to reclassify concessions-based sales arrangements
    to our Retail segment from our Wholesale segment. Segment
    information for Fiscal 2009 has been recast to conform to the
    current period’s presentation. See Note 2 to the
    accompanying audited consolidated financial statements for
    further discussion of the restatement of our segment
    presentation.



Fiscal Years EndedApril 3,March 28,20102009(millions)Net revenues:Wholesale$2,532.4$2,749.5Retail2,263.12,074.2Licensing183.4195.2Total net revenues$4,978.9$5,018.9





Fiscal Years EndedApril 3,March 28,20102009(millions)Operating income:Wholesale(a)$585.3$619.9Retail(a)254.1101.6Licensing107.4103.6946.8825.1Less:Unallocated corporate
    expenses(a)(229.9)(206.5)Unallocated legal and restructuring
    charges(b)(10.0)(23.1)Total operating income$706.9$595.5













(a)Fiscal years presented included
    certain asset impairment charges. Fiscal 2010 included asset
    impairment charges of $6.6 million related to the
    write-down of certain long-lived assets, primarily in the Retail
    segment. Fiscal 2009 included asset impairment charges of
    $55.4 million, of which $52.0 million related to the
    write-down of certain Retail store assets, and $2.8 million
    in the Wholesale segment and $0.6 million in the Corporate
    office related to the write-down of certain capitalized software
    costs (see Note 11 to the accompanying audited consolidated
    financial statements).



(b)Fiscal years presented included
    certain unallocated restructuring charges and legal-related
    activity. Restructuring charges, net for Fiscal 2010 consisted
    of $6.9 million, of which $5.4 million related to the
    Wholesale segment, $2.0 million related to the Retail
    segment and $0.5 million represented the reversal of an
    excess reserve related to Corporate operations. Restructuring
    charges for Fiscal 2009 consisted of $23.6 million, of
    which $12.7 million related to the Retail segment,
    $7.3 million related to the Wholesale segment and
    $3.6 million related to Corporate operations (see
    Note 12 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial
    statements). Legal-related activity for Fiscal 2010 consisted of
    legal charges of $4.8 million primarily related to the
    settlement of the Company’s California Labor Litigation
    matter, offset in part by the reversal of an excess legal
    reserve of $1.7 million (see Note 17 to the
    accompanying audited consolidated financial statements).
    Legal-related activity for Fiscal 2009 consisted of the reversal
    of an excess legal reserve in the amount of $0.5 million.



Our net revenues by geographic region for the last two fiscal
    years are shown in the table below. Note 22 to our
    accompanying audited consolidated financial statements contains
    additional segment and geographic area information.



Fiscal Years EndedApril 3,March 28,20102009(millions)Net revenues:United States and Canada$3,462.3$3,589.3Europe1,052.61,028.4Asia(a)459.7392.6Other regions4.38.6Total net revenues$4,978.9$5,018.9









(a)Includes Japan, China, Hong Kong,
    Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and
    Thailand.



Over the past five fiscal years, our sales have grown to
    $4.979 billion in Fiscal 2010 from $3.746 billion in
    Fiscal 2006. This growth has been largely a result of both our
    acquisitions and organic growth. We have diversified our
    business by channels of distribution, price point and target
    consumer, as well as by geography. Our global reach is one of
    the broadest in the apparel industry, with Ralph Lauren-branded
    merchandise available at approximately 9,000 different retail
    locations worldwide. In addition to our wholesale distribution,
    we sell directly to customers throughout the world via 350
    full-price and factory retail stores, 281 concessions-based
    shop-within-shops and oure-commercewebsites, RalphLauren.com and Rugby.com.



We continue to invest in our business. In the past five fiscal
    years, we have invested approximately $1.769 billion for
    acquisitions and capital improvements, primarily through strong
    operating cash flow. We intend to continue to execute our
    long-term strategy of expanding our presence internationally,
    extending ourdirect-to-consumerreach, expanding our accessories and other product offerings,
    and investing in our operational infrastructure. See
    Item 7 —“Overview—Our
    Objectives and Risks”for further discussion of the
    Company’s long-term strategy.



We have been controlled by the Lauren family since the founding
    of our Company. As of April 3, 2010, Mr. Ralph Lauren,
    or entities controlled by the Lauren family, owned approximately
    84% of the voting power of the outstanding common stock of the
    Company.



Seasonality
    of Business



Our business is typically affected by seasonal trends, with
    higher levels of wholesale sales in our second and fourth
    quarters and higher retail sales in our second and third
    quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing





of seasonal wholesale shipments and key vacation travel,back-to-schooland holiday shopping periods in the Retail segment. As a result
    of the growth and other changes in our business, along with
    changes in consumer spending patterns and the macroeconomic
    environment, historical quarterly operating trends and working
    capital requirements may not be indicative of future
    performances. In addition, fluctuations in sales, operating
    income and cash flows in any fiscal quarter may be affected by,
    among other things, the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments
    and other events affecting retail sales.



Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working
    capital typically increases during the first half of the fiscal
    year as inventory builds to support peak shipping/selling
    periods and, accordingly, typically decreases during the second
    half of the fiscal year as inventory is shipped/sold. Cash
    provided by operating activities is typically higher in the
    second half of the fiscal year due to higher net income and
    reduced working capital requirements during that period.



Recent
    Developments



Asia-Pacific
    Licensed Operations Acquisition



On December 31, 2009, in connection with the transition of
    the Polo-branded apparel business in Asia-Pacific (excluding
    Japan) from a licensed to a wholly owned operation, the Company
    acquired certain net assets from Dickson Concepts International
    Limited and affiliates (“Dickson”) in exchange for an
    initial payment of approximately $20 million and other
    consideration of approximately $17 million (the
    “Asia-Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition”).
    Dickson was the Company’s licensee for Polo-branded apparel
    in the Asia-Pacific region (excluding Japan), which is comprised
    of China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines,
    Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. The Company funded the
    Asia-Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition with available cash
    on-hand.



The results of operations for the Polo-branded apparel business
    in Asia-Pacific have been consolidated in the Company’s
    results of operations commencing January 1, 2010.



Our
    Brands and Products



Since 1967, our distinctive brand image has been consistently
    developed across an expanding number of products, price tiers
    and markets. Our brands, which include apparel, accessories and
    fragrance collections for men and women as well as childrenswear
    and home furnishings, comprise one of the world’s most
    widely recognized families of consumer brands. Reflecting a
    distinctive American perspective, we have been an innovator in
    aspirational lifestyle branding and believe that, under the
    direction of internationally renowned designer Ralph Lauren, we
    have had a considerable influence on the way people dress and
    the way that fashion is advertised throughout the world. We
    combine consumer insight with our design, marketing and imaging
    skills to offer, along with our licensing alliances, broad
    lifestyle product collections with a unified vision:



•Apparel— Products include extensive
    collections of men’s, women’s and children’s
    clothing;•Accessories— Products encompass a broad range,
    including footwear, eyewear, watches, jewelry, hats, belts and
    leathergoods, including handbags and luggage;•Home— Coordinated products for the home
    include bedding and bath products, furniture, fabric and
    wallpaper, paint, tabletop and giftware; and•Fragrance— Fragrance products are sold under
    our Romance, Polo, Lauren, Safari, Ralph and Black Label brands,
    among others.



Our lifestyle brand image is reinforced by our RalphLauren.com
    and Rugby.com internet sites.



Ralph
    Lauren Purple Label



In the time-honored tradition of bespoke clothing and
    haberdashery, Ralph Lauren Purple Label presents a level of
    sartorial craftsmanship unparalleled today. Refined suitings are
    hand-tailored from an exclusive selection of the world’s
    finest fabrics. Custom-tailoredMade-to-Measuresuits are hand-constructed by artisans trained in the art





of handmade clothing. Sophisticated sportswear and
    dandy-inspired dress furnishings are designed with meticulous
    attention to every detail. Dedicated to the highest level of
    quality and elegance, Ralph Lauren Purple Label is the ultimate
    expression of luxury for the modern gentleman. Ralph Lauren
    Purple Label also offers benchmade footwear andMade-to-Orderdress furnishings, accessories and luggage, as well as hand
    monogramming and custom engraving services of the highest
    quality. Ralph Lauren Purple Label is available in Ralph Lauren
    stores around the world and an exclusive selection of the finest
    specialty stores.



Ralph
    Lauren Men’s Black Label



With a sharp, modern attitude, Ralph Lauren Black Label is the
    essence of sophisticated dressing for men. Classic suitings
    feature razor-sharp tailoring and dramatically lean silhouettes.
    Luxe, racy sportswear is crafted from the finest fabrics and
    designed with subtle references to technical performance wear.
    Ultra-stylish yet timeless, the Black Label collection is sleek,
    bold and masculine. Ralph Lauren Black Label is available in
    Ralph Lauren stores around the world, a limited selection of
    specialty stores and better department stores and online at
    RalphLauren.com.



Polo
    Ralph Lauren



Authentic and iconic, Polo is the original symbol of the modern
    preppy lifestyle. Combining Ivy League classics and time-honored
    English haberdashery with downtown styles andAll-Americansporting looks, Polo sportswear and tailored clothing present aone-of-a-kindvision of menswear that is stylish, timeless and appeals to all
    generations of men. Often imitated but never matched,
    Polo’s signature aesthetic — along with its
    renowned polo player logo — is recognized worldwide as
    a mark of contemporary heritage excellence. Polo is available in
    Ralph Lauren stores around the world, better department stores,
    select specialty stores and online at RalphLauren.com.



Lauren
    for Men



Classic and polished, Lauren for Men conveys a spirit of
    tradition with a contemporary attitude. A complete collection of
    men’s tailored clothing, including suits, sport coats,
    dress shirts, dress pants, tuxedos, topcoats and ties, the
    Lauren men’s line offers the sophisticated spirit and
    preppy heritage of Ralph Lauren menswear at a more accessible
    price point. A soft, natural shoulder and modern construction
    details ensure elegant styling with superior comfort and the
    integrity of a well-made garment. Lauren for Men is available at
    select department stores.



Ralph
    by Ralph Lauren



Superior fabrics and a precise, impeccable construction define
    the distinguished aesthetic of the Ralph by Ralph Lauren
    collection for men. Suit separates, sport coats, vests and
    topcoats are all fashioned with the hallmarks of better
    men’s suitings, from half-canvas jacket constructions and
    high-quality Bemberg linings to hand-finished seams, felled
    cuffs and hems and reinforcements at natural points of wear.
    Timeless and unmistakably Ralph Lauren, the Ralph by Ralph
    Lauren collection offers refined luxury at an excellent value.
    Ralph by Ralph Lauren is available exclusively at Dillard’s
    stores.



Ralph
    Lauren Women’s Collection



Each runway season, Ralph Lauren’s most dramatic vision of
    women’s fashion is presented to the world. Timeless and
    sophisticated, women’s Collection reflects Ralph
    Lauren’s definitive design philosophy in its groundbreaking
    juxtapositions of feminine glamour with impeccable tailoring
    once found only in menswear. From exquisite hand-embroidered
    evening gowns worn on the red carpet to luxurious hand-finished
    cashmere tweed suitings to chic vintage denim inspired by rustic
    Americana, Collection is the epitome of modern, rarefied fashion
    as only Ralph Lauren can express it. Ralph Lauren Collection is
    available in Ralph Lauren stores around the world and an
    exclusive selection of the finest specialty stores. Collection
    accessories are available at RalphLauren.com.





Ralph
    Lauren Women’s Black Label



Black Label is the essence of sleek, modern sophistication for
    women. Proportions are chic and dramatic, ranging from
    menswear-inspired silhouettes to shimmering and feminine
    eveningwear. Fabrics are ultra-luxe and textural, color
    statements are rich and striking, and racy technical references
    infuse this glamorous collection with a bold, sexy edge. Black
    Label is offered in Ralph Lauren stores, designer boutiques,
    fine specialty stores, better department stores and online at
    RalphLauren.com.



Ralph
    Lauren Blue Label



Modern and eclectic with a sexy, youthful spirit, Blue Label
    embodies the iconic Ralph Lauren sensibility in its mix of
    vintage Ivy League prep, heritage equestrian, romantic bohemian
    and rugged Western inspirations. Unmistakably Ralph Lauren in
    its elegance and sophistication, Blue Label defines a fresh,
    free-spirited femininity. Blue Label is offered in Ralph Lauren
    stores around the world, better department stores and online at
    RalphLauren.com.



Lauren
    by Ralph Lauren



Lauren translates the sophisticated luxury of Ralph Lauren
    womenswear into an affordable wardrobe for every occasion. From
    timeless essentials with special finishing touches to polished
    silhouettes with a chic, modern spirit, Lauren maintains an
    elegant, feminine heritage while making strong seasonal fashion
    statements. Lauren Active infuses a fashion sensibility into
    practical sports apparel for golf, tennis, yoga and weekend
    wear. Lauren Jeans Co. presents a fresh perspective on denim
    with a breadth of exceptional styles and a complementary
    collection of sportswear items. Lauren Handbags are being
    introduced for the Fall 2010 season, adding to a wide range of
    accessories offerings from Lauren, including belts, scarves,
    gloves, footwear and jewelry. Lauren offers a range of true,
    consistent fits from Petites to Women’s sizes. Lauren is
    sold in select department stores in the U.S., Europe, Canada and
    Mexico. Lauren is also available online at RalphLauren.com.



Pink
    Pony



Established in 2000, Pink Pony is Polo Ralph Lauren’s
    worldwide initiative in the fight against cancer. Pink Pony
    supports programs for early diagnosis, education, treatment and
    research, and is dedicated to bringing patient navigation and
    quality cancer care to medically underserved communities. A
    percentage of sales from all Pink Pony products benefits the
    Pink Pony Fund of the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation. Pink Pony
    consists of feminine, slim-fitting women’s sportswear and
    accessories crafted in luxurious fabrics. From hooded
    sweatshirts and cotton mesh polos to canvas tote bags and
    cashmere yoga pants, all Pink Pony items feature our iconic pink
    Polo Player — a symbol of our commitment to the fight
    against cancer. Pink Pony is available at select Ralph Lauren
    stores and online at RalphLauren.com. Pink Pony was introduced
    at Bloomingdale’s in October 2009, and is available on
    select occasions. To learn more about Pink Pony and Polo Ralph
    Lauren’s other philanthropic efforts, please visit
    RalphLauren.com/Philanthropy.



RRL



RRL captures an authentic American spirit with a focus on
    integrity, character and timeworn charm. Founded in 1993 and
    named after Ralph and Ricky Lauren’s “Double RL”
    ranch in Colorado, RRL offers a mix of selvage denim, vintage
    apparel and accessories and cool, rugged sportswear with roots
    in workwear and military gear. With denim at the heart of the
    brand, RRL is dedicated to time-honored details and the highest
    quality workmanship — from ring-spun long-staple
    cotton yarns to traditional dyeing techniques to hand-applied
    artisanal finishes that result inone-of-a-kind,exceptionally durable pieces. Exclusive denim fabrics and rare
    limited editions have attracted a loyal following among
    collectors of special clothing. In Spring 2010, RRL launched
    womenswear with the same vintage heritage. RRL is available
    exclusively at RRL stores and select Ralph Lauren stores.



RLX



Created to answer the demand for superior high-performance
    outfitting, RLX for men and women unites the highest standards
    of luxury, technology and style. From cutting-edge functional
    gear for professional athletes to





exceptionally luxe lifestyle apparel for modern living, RLX
    defines the next evolution of design with a philosophy focused
    on purity of form, unrivaled construction techniques and the
    world’s most innovative fabrications. The RLX line is
    available around the world at select Ralph Lauren stores, top
    specialty and department stores and online at RalphLauren.com.



Polo
    Jeans Co.



In 1996, Ralph Lauren launched Polo Jeans Co. for men and women,
    combining a heritage philosophy with a fresh, irreverent spirit.
    With a focus on exceptional-quality denim — most
    notably the use of time-honored manufacturing techniques and
    pure indigo dyes — Polo Jeans Co. denim and sportswear
    collections embody authentic American style with a design
    aesthetic that ranges from vintage and iconic to bold, modern
    and urban. Polo Jeans Co. is available exclusively in Asia and
    Europe.



Golf



Tested and worn by top-ranked professional golfers, Polo Golf
    for men and Ralph Lauren Golf for women define heritage
    excellence in the world of golf. With a sharpened focus on the
    needs of the modern player but always rooted in the rich design
    tradition of Ralph Lauren, the Golf collections combinestate-of-the-artperformance wear with luxurious finishing touches for
    collections that travel effortlessly between the course and the
    clubhouse. The RLX Golf collection is ultramodern, graphic and
    dedicated to performance-driven design. From progressive fits
    and sophisticated styles to the most technologically advanced
    fabrics available, RLX golf is the ultimate in functional
    luxury. Polo Ralph Lauren is proud to sponsor Tom Watson, Davis
    Love III, Jonathan Byrd, Morgan Pressel, Luke Donald and Webb
    Simpson. The Polo, Ralph Lauren and RLX Golf collections are
    available in select Ralph Lauren stores, the most exclusive
    private clubs and resorts and online at RalphLauren.com.



Rugby



Launched in 2004, Rugby translates Ralph Lauren’s legacy of
    authentic prep into an eclectic, irreverent collection for young
    men and women. Cool and rebellious, vintage varsity and heritage
    classics are reinvented with a chic downtown flair and playful,
    sexy vibe for an individualistic approach to personal style.
    Iconic logos, vintage patches and spirited crests give Rugby a
    bold,one-of-a-kindedge. The Rugby collections are available at Rugby stores
    throughout the U.S. and online at Rugby.com, and are being
    introduced in Tokyo in Fall 2010.



Ralph
    Lauren Childrenswear



Ralph Lauren Childrenswear is designed to reflect the timeless
    heritage and modern spirit of Ralph Lauren’s collections
    for men and women. Signature classics, including iconic polo
    knit shirts and luxurious cashmere cable sweaters, are
    interpreted in the most sophisticated and vibrant colors.
    Fashionable styles are inspired by Ralph Lauren’s unique
    vision each season — fromAll-Americansportswear with preppy and equestrian inspirations to tailored
    and elegant ensembles for special occasions. Ralph Lauren
    Childrenswear is available in a full range of sizes for
    children, from Layette, Infant and Toddler to Girls size 16 and
    Boys size 20. Ralph Lauren Childrenswear can be found in select
    Ralph Lauren stores, better department stores and online at
    RalphLauren.com.



Accessories



Ralph Lauren accessories for men and women reflect the
    distinctive design philosophies known throughout the world of
    Ralph Lauren and represent a continuous dedication to impeccable
    craftsmanship and iconic beauty. Ralph Lauren accessories for
    women capture a wide array of timeless styles, from a glamorous
    handmade alligator Ricky Bag that takes up to 12 hours to
    craft to weathered canvas saddle bags with authentic equestrian
    hardware to vintage luggage — inspired handbags that
    recall the golden age of travel. Ralph Lauren’s signature
    motifs can be found throughout — from jockey-print
    scarves, riding boots with equestrian hardware and vintage
    aviator sunglasses to striking diamante evening shoes, romantic
    ruffled scarves and antique,one-of-a-kindbelts and jewelry. Ralph Lauren accessories and dress
    furnishings are a man’s most refined finishing touch.
    Iconic and innovative neckties, which launched the Polo brand in
    1967, are woven from the finest silks. Footwear ranges from
    velvet monogrammed slippers and benchmade dress shoes to
    hand-sewn penny loafers and rugged suede and shearling duck





boots. Handcrafted luggage and leathergoods combine handsome
    sophistication with functionality. Each accessory is
    meticulously designed to complement Ralph Lauren’s menswear
    collections — from vintage-inspired eyewear and Savile
    Row-inspired haberdashery to sleek silver engraved cuff links
    and engine-turned belt buckles to luxe cashmere scarves and
    hand-sewn shearling gloves. Ralph Lauren accessories are
    available in Ralph Lauren stores, select specialty stores and
    online at RalphLauren.com.



Ralph
    Lauren Watches



In 2008, Ralph Lauren launched his premier collection of watches
    in partnership with internationally renowned luxury group
    Financiere Richemont SA (“Richemont”). The three
    timepiece collections — the iconic Ralph Lauren
    Stirrup, the refined Ralph Lauren Slim Classique and the
    performance-inspired Ralph Lauren Sporting — embody
    Ralph Lauren’s passion for impeccable quality and exquisite
    design. Ralph Lauren timepieces feature the finest in Swiss Made
    mechanical manufacture movements and the world’s most
    luxurious materials — from pure platinum and polished
    18-carat gold cases to enamel dials, traditional guilloché
    patterns and full-cut diamonds. Ralph Lauren Watches are
    available at select Ralph Lauren stores around the world and
    only the finest watch retailers.



Fragrance



In 1978, Ralph Lauren expanded his lifestyle brand to encompass
    the world of fragrance, launching Lauren for women and Polo for
    men. Since then, Ralph Lauren Fragrance has captured the essence
    of Ralph Lauren’s men’s and women’s brands, from
    the timeless heritage of Lauren and Polo to the sophisticated
    beauty of Polo Black for men and Romance for women to the
    modern, fresh Ralph fragrances for her, designed to appeal to a
    younger audience. Women’s fragrances include Safari, Polo
    Sport, Ralph Lauren Blue, Lauren, Romance, Ralph, Ralph Hot,
    Ralph Rocks, Notorious and Love. Men’s fragrances include
    Safari, Polo Sport, Polo Blue, Romance, Romance Silver, Purple
    Label, Explorer, Polo Black and Double Black. Ralph Lauren
    fragrances are available in department stores, specialty and
    duty free stores, perfumeries and online at RalphLauren.com.



Ralph
    Lauren Home



As the first American fashion designer to create an
    all-encompassing collection for the home, Ralph Lauren presents
    home furnishings and accessories that reflect the enduring style
    and exquisite craftsmanship synonymous with the name Ralph
    Lauren. Whether inspired by time-honored tradition, the utmost
    in modern sophistication or the beauty of rare objects collected
    around the world, Ralph Lauren Home is dedicated to only the
    finest materials and the greatest attention to detail for the
    ultimate in artisanal luxury. The collections include furniture,
    bed and bath linens, china, crystal, silver, decorative
    accessories, gifts, garden and beach, as well as lighting,
    window hardware, fabric, trimmings and wallcovering. Ralph
    Lauren Home offers exclusive luxury goods at select Ralph Lauren
    stores, trade showrooms and online at RalphLauren.com. The
    complete world of Ralph Lauren Home can be explored online at
    RalphLaurenHome.com.



Lauren
    Home



Lauren Home presents a signature design sensibility that
    combines heritage elegance with a fresh, modern flair. Finely
    crafted and highly accessible for any well-appointed home,
    Lauren Home offers a wide array of collections that range from
    classic to modern, including bedding, bath, furniture, tabletop,
    gifts, decorative accessories, floorcovering and lighting.
    Launched in 2007, Lauren Spa offers a certified collection of
    100% organic bedding in all eco-friendly packaging. Lauren Home
    is available at select department stores, home specialty stores
    and online at RalphLauren.com. Information on Lauren Spa is
    available at RalphLauren.com/SPA.



Ralph
    Lauren Paint



Introduced in 1995, Ralph Lauren Paint offers
    exceptional-quality interior paint ranked high in the industry
    for performance. Inspired by classic and modern lifestyles from
    the world of Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Paint features a
    signature palette of over 500 colors and a collection of unique
    finishes and innovative techniques. An extension of the Ralph
    Lauren Home lifestyle, Ralph Lauren Paint is an attainable
    product designed to reach a selective





audience. Ralph Lauren Paint is offered at select specialty
    stores. The complete color palette, paint how-to’s and a
    guide to professional painters are online at
    RalphLaurenPaint.com.



Club
    Monaco



Founded in 1985, Club Monaco is an international destination for
    affordable, stylish luxury. Each season, Club Monaco designs,
    manufactures and markets its own clothing and accessories for
    men and women, offering key fashion pieces with modern, urban
    sophistication and a selection of updated classics —
    from the perfect white shirt and black pencil skirt to refined
    suiting and Italian cashmere. The brand’s signature
    aesthetic is defined by clean, contemporary design and a palette
    of versatile neutrals infused with pops of vibrant colors. Club
    Monaco apparel and accessories are available exclusively at Club
    Monaco stores around the world.



Global
    Brand Concepts



American
    Living



Launched exclusively at JCPenney in February 2008, American
    Living offers classic American style with a fresh, modern spirit
    and authentic sensibility. From everyday essentials to special
    occasion looks for the entire family to finely crafted bedding
    and home furnishings, American Living promises stylish clothing
    and home products that are exceptionally made and offered at an
    incredible value. American Living is available exclusively at
    JCPenney and JCP.com.



Chaps



Chaps translates the classic heritage and timeless aesthetic of
    Ralph Lauren into an accessible line for men, women, children
    and the home. From casual basics designed for versatility and
    ease of wear to smart, finely tailored silhouettes perfect for
    business and more formal occasions, Chaps creates
    interchangeable classics that are both enduring and affordable.
    The Chaps men’s collection is available at select
    department and specialty stores. The Chaps collections for
    women, children and the home are available only at Kohl’s
    and Kohls.com.



Our
    Wholesale Segment



Our Wholesale segment sells our products to leading upscale and
    certain mid-tier department stores, specialty stores and golf
    and pro shops, both domestically and internationally. We have
    continued to focus on elevating our brand by improving in-store
    product assortment and presentation, and improving full-price
    sell-throughs to consumers. As of the end of Fiscal 2010, our
    Ralph Lauren-branded products were sold through approximately
    9,000 doors worldwide and during Fiscal 2010, we invested
    approximately $29 million in related shop-within-shops
    primarily in domestic and international department and specialty
    stores.



Department stores are our major wholesale customers in North
    America. In Europe, our wholesale sales are a varying mix of
    sales to both department stores and specialty shops, depending
    on the country. Our collection brands — Women’s
    Ralph Lauren Collection and Black Label and Men’s Purple
    Label Collection and Black Label — are distributed
    through a limited number of premier fashion retailers. In
    addition, we sell excess andout-of-seasonproducts through secondary distribution channels, including our
    retail factory stores. In Japan, our wholesale products are
    distributed primarily through shop-within-shops at premiere and
    top tier department stores, and the mix of business is weighted
    to Women’s Blue and Black Label. In this region, products
    distributed through concessions-based sales arrangements are
    reported within our Retail segment (see“Our Retail
    Segment”for further discussion).





Worldwide
    Distribution Channels



The following table presents the number of doors by geographic
    location, in which Ralph Lauren-branded products distributed by
    our Wholesale segment were sold to consumers in our primary
    channels of distribution as of April 3, 2010:



Number ofLocationDoors(a)United States and Canada4,402Europe4,421Japan117Total8,940









(a)In Asia-Pacific, our products are
    primarily distributed through concessions-based sales
    arrangements.



In addition, American Living and Chaps-branded products
    distributed by our Wholesale segment were sold domestically
    through approximately 1,700 doors as of April 3, 2010.



We have five key department-store customers that generate
    significant sales volume. For Fiscal 2010, these customers in
    the aggregate accounted for approximately 45% of all wholesale
    revenues, with Macy’s, Inc. representing approximately 18%
    of these revenues.



Our product brands are sold primarily through their own sales
    forces. Our Wholesale segment maintains its primary showrooms in
    New York City. In addition, we maintain regional showrooms in
    Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, Milan, Paris, London, Munich, Madrid
    and Stockholm.



Shop-within-Shops.As a critical
    element of our distribution to department stores, we and our
    licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to enhance brand
    recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines
    by the department stores and to differentiate the presentation
    of products. Shop-within-shops fixed assets primarily include
    items such as customized freestanding fixtures, wall cases and
    components, decorative items and flooring.



As of April 3, 2010, we had approximately 14,000
    shop-within-shops dedicated to our Ralph Lauren-branded
    wholesale products worldwide. Excluding significantly larger
    shop-within-shops in key department store locations, the size of
    our shop-within-shops typically ranges from approximately 300 to
    6,000 square feet. We normally share in the cost of these
    shop-within-shops with our wholesale customers.



Basic Stock Replenishment
    Program.Basic products such as knit shirts,
    chino pants and oxford cloth shirts can be ordered at any time
    through our basic stock replenishment programs. We generally
    ship these products withinthree-to-fivedays of order receipt.



Our
    Retail Segment



As of April 3, 2010, our Retail segment consisted of 179
    full-price retail stores and 171 factory stores worldwide,
    totaling approximately 2.6 million square feet, 281
    concessions-based shop-within-shops and twoe-commercewebsites. The extension of ourdirect-to-consumerreach is a primary long-term strategic goal.



Full-Price
    Retail Stores



Our full-price retail stores reinforce the luxury image and
    distinct sensibility of our brands and feature exclusive lines
    that are not sold in domestic department stores. We opened 3 new
    full-price stores and closed 3 full-price stores in Fiscal 2010.
    In addition, we assumed 16 full-price stores in connection with
    the Asia-Pacific





Licensed Operations Acquisition (see“Recent
    Developments”for further discussion). We operated the
    following full-price retail stores as of April 3, 2010:



LocationRalph LaurenClub MonacoRugbyTotalUnited States and Canada656311139Europe20——20Japan1——1Asia(a)16——16Latin America3——3Total1056311179









(a)Includes China, Hong Kong,
    Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and
    Thailand.



•Ralph Laurenstores feature the full-breadth of the Ralph
    Lauren apparel, accessory and home product assortments in an
    atmosphere reflecting the distinctive attitude and luxury
    positioning of the Ralph Lauren brand. Our seven flagship Ralph
    Lauren store locations showcase our upper-end luxury styles and
    products and demonstrate our most refined merchandising
    techniques.•Club Monacostores feature updated fashion apparel and
    accessories for both men and women. The brand’s clean and
    updated classic signature style forms the foundation of a modern
    wardrobe.•Rugbyis a vertical retail format featuring an
    aspirational lifestyle collection of apparel and accessories for
    men and women. The brand is characterized by a youthful, preppy
    attitude which resonates throughout the line and the store
    experience.



In addition to generating sales of our products, our worldwide
    full-price stores set, reinforce and capitalize on the image of
    our brands. Our stores range in size from approximately 900 to
    over 33,000 square feet. These full-price stores are
    situated in major upscale street locations and upscale regional
    malls, generally in large urban markets. We generally lease our
    stores for initial periods ranging from 5 to 10 years with
    renewal options.



Factory
    Retail Stores



We extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our
    171 Polo Ralph Lauren factory stores worldwide. Our factory
    stores are generally located in outlet malls. We generally lease
    our stores for initial periods ranging from 5 to 10 years
    with renewal options. During Fiscal 2010, we added 7 new Polo
    Ralph Lauren factory stores, net, and assumed 1 factory store in
    connection with the Asia-Pacific Licensed Operations Acquisition
    (see“Recent Developments”for further
    discussion). We operated the following factory retail stores as
    of April 3, 2010:



PoloLocationRalph LaurenUnited States137Europe24Japan9Asia(a)1Total171









(a)Includes China, Hong Kong,
    Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan and
    Thailand.



•Polo Ralph Lauren domesticfactory stores offer
    selections of our menswear, womenswear, children’s apparel,
    accessories, home furnishings and fragrances. Ranging in size
    from approximately 2,700 to 20,000 square feet, with an
    average of approximately 9,200 square feet, these stores
    are principally located in major outlet centers in
    38 states and Puerto Rico.•Europefactory stores offer selections of our menswear,
    womenswear, children’s apparel, accessories and fragrances.
    Ranging in size from approximately 2,500 to 10,500 square
    feet, with an average of approximately 6,500 square feet,
    these stores are located in 9 countries, principally in major
    outlet centers.







•Japan and Asiafactory stores offer selections of our
    menswear, womenswear, children’s apparel, accessories and
    fragrances. Ranging in size from approximately 1,000 to
    12,000 square feet, with an average of approximately
    5,400 square feet, these stores are located in Hong Kong
    and 9 provinces in Japan, principally in major outlet centers.



Factory stores obtain products from our suppliers, our product
    licensing partners and our retail stores.



Concessions-based
    Shop-within-Shops



In Asia (including Japan), the terms of trade for
    shop-within-shops are largely conducted on a concessions basis,
    whereby inventory continues to be owned by the Company (not the
    department store) until ultimate sale to the end consumer and
    the salespeople involved in the sales transaction are employees
    of the Company. Effective with the closing of the Asia-Pacific
    Licensed Operations Acquisition, all concessions-based sales
    arrangements have been classified within our Retail segment, in
    contrast to the historical classification within our Wholesale
    segment. See Note 2 to the accompanying audited
    consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



As of April 3, 2010, we had 281 concessions-based
    shop-within-shops at approximately 170 retail locations
    dedicated to our Ralph Lauren-branded products, primarily in
    Asia (including Japan). The size of our concessions-based
    shop-within-shops typically ranges from approximately 150 to
    4,500 square feet. We share in the cost of these
    shop-within-shops with our department store partners.



RalphLauren.com
    and Rugby.com



In addition to our stores, our Retail segment sells products
    online through oure-commercewebsites, RalphLauren.com(http://www.RalphLauren.com)and Rugby.com(http://www.Rugby.com).



RalphLauren.com offers our customers access to the full breadth
    of Ralph Lauren apparel, accessories and home products, allows
    us to reach retail customers on a multi-channel basis and
    reinforces the luxury image of our brands. RalphLauren.com
    averaged 3.5 million unique visitors a month and acquired
    approximately 390,000 new customers, resulting in over
    2 million total customers in Fiscal 2010.



Rugby.com offers clothing and accessories for purchase along
    with style tips, unique videos and blog-based content. Rugby.com
    offers an extensive array of Rugby products for young men and
    women within a full lifestyle destination. Rugby.com averaged
    370,000 unique visitors a month and acquired approximately
    40,000 new customers, resulting in approximately 60,000 total
    customers in Fiscal 2010.



Our
    Licensing Segment



Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight,
    design, and marketing skills with the specific product or
    geographic competencies of our licensing partners to create and
    build new businesses. We generally seek out licensing partners
    who:



•are leaders in their respective markets;•contribute the majority of the product development costs;•provide the operational infrastructure required to support the
    business; and•own the inventory.



We grant our product licensees the right to manufacture and sell
    at wholesale specified categories of products under one or more
    of our trademarks. We grant our international geographic area
    licensing partners exclusive rights to distribute certain brands
    or classes of our products and operate retail stores in specific
    international territories. These geographic area licensees
    source products from us, our product licensing partners and
    independent sources. Each licensing partner pays us royalties
    based upon its sales of our products, generally subject to a
    minimum royalty requirement for the right to use the
    Company’s trademarks and design services. In addition,
    licensing partners may be required to allocate a portion of
    their revenues to advertise our products and share in the
    creative costs associated





with these products. Larger allocations are required in
    connection with launches of new products or in new territories.
    Our licenses generally have 3 to5-yearterms
    and may grant the licensee conditional renewal options.



We work closely with our licensing partners to ensure that their
    products are developed, marketed and distributed so as to reach
    the intended market opportunity and to present consistently to
    consumers worldwide the distinctive perspective and lifestyle
    associated with our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design,
    production quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution,
    advertising and promotion of Ralph Lauren products are subject
    to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The result is a
    consistent identity for Ralph Lauren products across product
    categories and international markets.



Approximately 30% of our licensing revenue for Fiscal 2010 was
    derived from three licensing partners: Luxottica Group, S.p.A.
    (12%), The Warnaco Group, Inc. (9%) and Peerless, Inc. (9%).



Product
    Licenses



The following table lists our principal product licensing
    agreements for men’s sportswear, men’s tailored
    clothing, men’s underwear and sleepwear, eyewear and
    fragrances as of April 3, 2010. The products offered by
    these licensing partners are listed below. Except as noted in
    the table, these product licenses cover the U.S. or
    North America only.



Licensing PartnerLicensed Product
    CategoryL’Oreal S.A. (global)Men’s and Women’s Fragrances, Cosmetics, Color and
    Skin Care ProductsPeerless, Inc.Men’s, Chaps, Lauren, Ralph and American Living Tailored
    ClothingHanes BrandsMen’s Polo Ralph Lauren Underwear and SleepwearLuxottica Group, S.p.A. (global)EyewearThe Warnaco Group, Inc.Men’s Chaps Sportswear





International
    Licenses



We believe that international markets offer additional
    opportunities for our quintessential American designs and
    lifestyle image. We work with our international licensing
    partners to facilitate international growth in their respective
    territories. International expansion/growth opportunities may
    include:



•the roll out of new products and brands following their launch
    in the U.S.;•the introduction of additional product lines;•the entrance into new international markets;•the addition of Ralph Lauren or Polo Ralph Lauren stores in
    these markets; and•the expansion and upgrade of shop-within-shop networks in these
    markets.



The following table identifies our principal international area
    licensing partners (excluding Ralph Lauren Home and Club Monaco
    licensees) as of April 3, 2010:



Licensing PartnerTerritoryOroton Group/PRL AustraliaAustralia and New ZealandDoosan CorporationKoreaP.R.L. Enterprises, S.A.Panama, Aruba, Curacao, The Cayman Islands, Costa Rica,
    Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador, Guatemala, Belize, Colombia,
    Ecuador, Bolivia, Peru, Antigua, Barbados, Bonaire, The
    Dominican Republic, St. Lucia, St. Martin, Trinidad and Tobago







Our international licensing partners acquire the right to sell,
    promote, marketand/ordistribute various categories of our products in a given
    geographic area. These rights may include the right to own and
    operate retail stores. The economic arrangements are similar to
    those of our product licensing partners. We design licensed
    products either alone or in collaboration with our domestic
    licensing partners. Our product licensees, whose territories do
    not include the international geographic area licensees’
    territories, generally provide our international licensing
    partners with product or patterns, piece goods, manufacturing
    locations and other information and assistance necessary to
    achieve product uniformity, for which they are often compensated
    by these partners.



As of April 3, 2010, our international licensing partners
    operated 63 Ralph Lauren stores and 60 Club Monaco stores and
    dedicated shops.



Ralph
    Lauren Home



Together with our licensing partners, we offer an extensive
    collection of home products that draw upon and further the
    design themes of our other product lines, contributing to our
    complete lifestyle concept. Products are sold under theRalph
    Lauren Home,Lauren Ralph Lauren,ChapsandAmerican Livingbrands in three primary categories:
    bedding and bath, home décor and home improvement. As of
    April 3, 2010, we had agreements with 11 domestic and
    2 international home product licensing partners and one
    international home product sublicensing partner.



We perform a broader range of services for our Ralph Lauren Home
    licensing partners than we do for our other licensing partners.
    These services include design, operating showrooms, marketing,
    advertising and, in some cases, sales. In general, the licensing
    partners manufacture and own the inventory, and ship the
    products. Our Ralph Lauren Home licensing alliances generally
    have 3 to5-yearterms
    and may grant the licensee conditional renewal options.



Ralph Lauren Home products are positioned at the upper tiers of
    their respective markets and are offered at a range of price
    levels. These products are generally distributed through several
    channels of distribution, including department stores, specialty
    home furnishings stores, interior design showrooms, customer
    direct mail catalogs, home centers and the Internet, as well as
    our own stores. As with our other products, the use of
    shop-within-shops is central to our department store
    distribution strategy.



TheRalph Lauren Home,Lauren Ralph Lauren,ChapsandAmerican Livinghome products offered by
    us and our product licensing partners as of April 3, 2010
    are as follows:



CategoryLicensed ProductLicensing PartnerBedding and BathSheets, bedding accessories, towels, blankets, down comforters,
    other decorative bedding and accessoriesWestPoint Home, Inc., Fremaux-Delorme, Ichida, Kohl’s
    Department Stores, Inc., J.C. Penney Corp., Inc.Bath rugsBacova Guild, Ltd.Home DécorFabric and wallpaperP. Kaufmann, Inc., Designers Guild Ltd.FurnitureEJ Victor, Inc., Schnadig International Corp.Tabletop and giftware, table linens, placemats, tablecloths and
    napkinsFitz and Floyd, Inc., J.C. Penney Corp., Inc., Town &
    Country Linen Corp., Kohl’s Department Stores, Inc.Window and decorative accessoriesJ.C. Penney Corp., Inc.Home ImprovementInterior paints and stains and broadloom carpetsAkzo Nobel Paints LLC, Karastan, a division of Mohawk Carpet
    Corp.







WestPoint Home, Inc. offers a basic stock replenishment program
    that includes bedding and bath products, and accounted for
    approximately 76% of the net sales of these Ralph Lauren Home
    products and approximately 25% of the total Ralph Lauren Home
    licensing revenue in Fiscal 2010.



Product
    Design



Our products reflect a timeless and innovative interpretation of
    American style with a strong international appeal. Our
    consistent emphasis on new and distinctive design has been an
    important contributor to the prominence, strength and reputation
    of the Ralph Lauren brands.



All Ralph Lauren products are designed by, or under the
    direction of, Mr. Ralph Lauren and our design staff, which
    is divided into nine departments: Menswear, Women’s
    Collection, Women’s Ready to Wear, Dresses,
    Children’s, Accessories, Home, Club Monaco and Rugby. We
    form design teams around our brands and product categories to
    develop concepts, themes and products for each brand and
    category. Through close collaboration with merchandising, sales
    and production staff, these teams support all three segments of
    our business — Wholesale, Retail and
    Licensing — in order to gain market and other valuable
    input.



Marketing
    and Advertising



Our marketing program communicates the themes and images of our
    brands and is an integral feature of our product offering.
    Worldwide marketing is managed on a centralized basis through
    our advertising and public relations departments in order to
    ensure consistency of presentation.



We create distinctive image advertising for all of our brands,
    conveying the particular message of each one within the context
    of the overall Ralph Lauren aesthetic. Advertisements generally
    portray a lifestyle rather than a specific item and include a
    variety of products offered by ourselves and, in some cases, our
    licensing partners. Our primary advertising medium is print,
    with multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a range
    of fashion, lifestyle and general interest magazines. Major
    print advertising campaigns are conducted during the fall and
    spring retail seasons, with additions throughout the year to
    coincide with product deliveries. In addition to print, some
    brands have utilized television and outdoor media in their
    marketing programs. Our RalphLauren.com and Rugby.come-commercewebsites present the Ralph Lauren lifestyle on the Internet
    while offering the full breadth of our apparel, accessories and
    home products.



We advertise in consumer and trade publications, and participate
    in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with some of
    our retailer partners. In addition, we providepoint-of-salefixtures and signage to our wholesale customers to enhance the
    presentation of our products at retail locations. We expensed
    approximately $157 million related to the advertising of
    our products in Fiscal 2010, a decrease of approximately 8% from
    Fiscal 2009.



When our domestic licensing partners are required to spend an
    amount equal to a percent of their licensed product sales on
    advertising, we coordinate the advertising placement on their
    behalf.



We also conduct a variety of public relations activities. Each
    of our spring and fall womenswear collections are presented at
    major fashion shows in New York City, which typically generate
    extensive domestic and international media coverage. We
    introduce each of the spring and fall menswear collections at
    major fashion shows in cities such as New York or Milan, Italy.
    In addition, we organize in-store appearances by our models,
    certain professional athletes and sponsors. We are the first
    exclusive outfitter for all on-court officials at the Wimbledon
    tennis tournament and are currently the official outfitter of
    all on-court officials at the U.S. Open tennis tournament.



In June 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with the
    United States Olympic Committee to be the exclusive Official
    Parade Outfitter for the 2010 and 2012 U.S. Olympic and
    Paralympic Teams. Under this agreement, the Company designed the
    official opening and closing ceremony Parade Outfits for the
    U.S. Olympic team members of the 2010 Winter Olympics in
    Vancouver, in addition to an assortment of leisure/village wear
    (“Leisure Wear”) pieces provided to the athletes on
    the U.S. Teams. In addition, the Company has the right to
    manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote and sell products in
    the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and Leisure
    Wear.





Sourcing,
    Production and Quality



We contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own
    or operate any production facilities. Over 400 different
    manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel, footwear and
    accessories products, with no one manufacturer providing more
    than 8% of our total production during Fiscal 2010. We source
    both finished products and raw materials. Raw materials include
    fabric, buttons and other trim. Finished products consist of
    manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to
    our customers. In Fiscal 2010, less than 2%, by dollar volume,
    of our products were produced in the U.S., and over 98%, by
    dollar volume, were produced outside the U.S., primarily in
    Asia, Europe and South America. See“Import Restrictions
    and other Government Regulations”and
    Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business — Our
    business is subject to risks associated with importing
    products.”



Most of the businesses in our Wholesale segment must commit to
    manufacture our garments before we receive customer orders. We
    also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well in advance
    of our sales. If we overestimate our primary customers’
    demand for a particular product, we may sell the excess in our
    factory stores or sell the product through secondary
    distribution channels. If we overestimate the need for a
    particular fabric or yarn, that fabric or yarn may be used in
    garments made for subsequent seasons or made into past
    seasons’ styles for distribution in our factory stores.



Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our global
    manufacturing division and buying agents headquartered in Asia,
    the Americas and Europe. All garments are produced according to
    our specifications. Production and quality control staff in the
    Americas, Asia and Europe monitor manufacturing at supplier
    facilities in order to correct problems prior to shipment of the
    final product. Procedures have been implemented under our vendor
    certification and compliance programs, so that quality assurance
    is focused upon as early as possible in the production process,
    allowing merchandise to be received at the distribution
    facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.



Competition



Competition is very strong in the segments of the fashion and
    consumer product industries in which we operate. We compete with
    numerous designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories,
    fragrances and home furnishing products, domestic and foreign.
    Some of our competitors may be significantly larger and have
    substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on
    the basis of fashion, quality and service, which depend on our
    ability to:



•anticipate and respond to changing consumer demands in a timely
    manner;•maintain favorable brand recognition;•develop and produce high quality products that appeal to
    consumers;•appropriately price our products;•provide strong and effective marketing support;•ensure product availability; and•obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our
    products at retail.



See Item 1A —“Risk Factors —
    Risks Relating to the Industry in Which We Compete —
    We face intense competition in the worldwide apparel
    industry.”



Distribution



To facilitate distribution in the U.S., Ralph Lauren products
    are shipped from manufacturers to a network of distribution
    centers for inspection, sorting, packing, and shipment to retail
    and wholesale customers. This network includes our owned
    distribution center in Greensboro, North Carolina, a leased
    facility in Martinsburg, West Virginia, and third party
    logistics centers in Chino Hills, California and Miami, Florida.
    All facilities are





designed to allow for high density cube storage and value added
    services, and utilize carton and unit tracking technology to
    facilitate process control and inventory management. Canadian
    distribution to Club Monaco stores is supported by a third party
    logistics provider in Toronto, Ontario. European distribution is
    serviced by a third party facility located in Parma, Italy.
    Japan logistics are supported by third party facilities in
    Kawasaki and Ebina. Excluding Japan, Asia-Pacific distribution
    is serviced by a third party facility in Hong Kong, supported by
    small satellite third party locations in China, Singapore,
    Malaysia and Taiwan. The network is managed through globally
    integrated information technology systems.



RalphLauren.com and Rugby.com customer contact functions and
    order fulfillment are performed at a leased facility in High
    Point, North Carolina.



Management
    Information Systems



Our management information systems make the marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution of our products more
    efficient by providing, among other things:



•comprehensive order processing;•production information;•accounting information; and•an enterprise view of information for our marketing,
    manufacturing, importing and distribution functions.



Thepoint-of-saleregisters in conjunction with other systems in our stores enable
    us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a
    real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial
    systems, coupled with ourpoint-of-saleregisters and software programs, allow for stock replenishment,
    effective merchandise planning and real-time inventory
    accounting. See Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business —
    Certain legal proceedings and regulatory matters could adversely
    impact our results of operations.”



We also utilize an automated replenishment system, Logility, to
    facilitate the processing of basic replenishment orders from our
    Retail segment and wholesale customers, the movement of goods
    through distribution channels, and the collection of information
    for planning and forecasting. We have a collaborative
    relationship with many of our suppliers that enables us to
    reducecash-to-cashcycles in the management of our inventory. See
    Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our business could suffer if our computer
    systems and websites are disrupted or cease to operate
    effectively.”



Wholesale
    Credit Control



We manage our own credit function. We sell our merchandise
    primarily to major department stores and extend credit based on
    an evaluation of the customer’s financial capacity and
    condition, usually without requiring collateral. We monitor
    credit levels and the financial condition of our customers on a
    continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor or
    underwrite our accounts receivables, or maintain credit
    insurance to manage the risks of bad debts. Collection and
    deduction transactional activities are principally provided
    through a third party service provider. Our bad debt expenses
    were approximately $5 million in Fiscal 2010, representing
    less than 1 percent of net revenues. See
    Item 1A —“Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business—Our business could be
    negatively impacted by any financial instability of our
    customers.”



Wholesale
    Backlog



We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel products
    approximately three to five months prior to the time the
    products are delivered to stores. Such orders are generally
    subject to broad cancellation rights. As of April 3, 2010,
    our total backlog was $1.160 billion, compared to
    $1.289 billion as of March 28, 2009. We expect that
    substantially all of our backlog orders as of April 3, 2010
    will be filled within the next fiscal year. The size of our
    order backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the
    timing of the market weeks for our particular lines during which
    a significant percentage of our orders are received, and the
    timing of shipments. As a consequence, a





comparison of the size of our order backlog from period to
    period may not be necessarily meaningful, nor may it be
    indicative of eventual shipments. Nevertheless, the decrease in
    our order backlog from the prior year is associated in part with
    a reduction in customer orders relating to the contraction in
    consumer spending likely to continue during Fiscal 2011.



Trademarks



We own the “Polo,” “Ralph Lauren,”
    “Polo by Ralph Lauren Design” and the famous polo
    player astride a horse trademarks in the U.S. and
    approximately 100 countries worldwide. Other trademarks that we
    similarly own include:



•“Lauren Ralph Lauren”;•“Lauren”;•“Purple Label”;•“Pink Pony”;•“Ralph”;•“RRL”;•“Club Monaco”;•“Rugby”;•“RLX”;•“Chaps”;•“American Living”; and•Various trademarks pertaining to fragrances and cosmetics.



Mr. Ralph Lauren has the royalty-free right to use as
    trademarks “Ralph Lauren,” “Double RL” and
    “RRL” in perpetuity in connection with, among other
    things, beef and living animals. The trademarks “Double
    RL” and “RRL” are currently used by the Double RL
    Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition,
    Mr. Lauren has the right to engage in personal projects
    involving film or theatrical productions (not including or
    relating to our business) through RRL Productions, Inc., a
    company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. Any activity by these
    companies has no impact on us.



Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending
    applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items
    of apparel, apparel-related products, home furnishings,
    restaurant and café services, online services and online
    publications and beauty products, as well as in connection with
    retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage
    and registration of related trademarks. In general, trademarks
    remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks are used in
    connection with the related products and services and the
    required registration renewals are filed. We regard the license
    to use the trademarks and our other proprietary rights in and to
    the trademarks as extremely valuable assets in marketing our
    products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect
    them against infringement (see Item 3 —“Legal Proceedings”for further discussion). As
    a result of the appeal of our trademarks, our products have been
    the object of counterfeiting. We have a broad enforcement
    program which has been generally effective in controlling the
    sale of counterfeit products in the U.S. and in most major
    markets abroad.



In markets outside of the U.S., our rights to some or all of our
    trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our
    international expansion, we have experienced conflicts with
    various third parties who have acquired ownership rights in
    certain trademarks, including “Polo”and/ora
    representation of a polo player astride a horse, which impede
    our use and registration of our principal trademarks. While such
    conflicts are common and may arise again from time to time as we
    continue our international expansion, we have, in general,
    successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both
    legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners
    of the conflicting





marks (see Item 1A —“Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our trademarks and other intellectual
    property rights may not be adequately protected outside the
    U.S.”and Item 3 —“Legal
    Proceedings”for further discussion). Although we have
    not in the past suffered any material restraints or restrictions
    on doing business in desirable markets, we cannot assure that
    significant impediments will not arise in the future as we
    expand product offerings and introduce trademarks to new markets.



Import
    Restrictions and Other Government Regulations





We are also subject to other international trade agreements and
    regulations, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement,
    the Central American Free Trade Agreement and the Caribbean
    Basin Initiative. In addition, each of the countries in which
    our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports.
    Because the U.S. and the other countries in which our
    products are manufactured and sold may, from time to time,
    impose new duties, tariffs, surcharges or other import controls
    or restrictions, including the imposition of “safeguard
    quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates
    or levels, we maintain a program of intensive monitoring of
    import restrictions and opportunities. We seek to minimize our
    potential exposure to import related risks through, among other
    measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts
    of production among countries and manufacturers, as well as
    through geographical diversification of our sources of supply.



As almost all our products are manufactured by foreign
    suppliers, the enactment of new legislation or the
    administration of current international trade regulations,
    executive action affecting textile agreements, or changes in
    sourcing patterns resulting from the elimination of quota could
    adversely affect our operations. Although we generally expect
    that the 2005 elimination of quotas will result, over the long
    term, in an overall reduction in the cost of apparel produced
    abroad, the implementation of any “safeguard quota
    provisions” or any “anti-dumping” or
    “countervailing duty” actions may result, over the
    near term, in cost increases and in disruption of the supply
    chain for certain products categories. See
    Item 1A —“Risk Factors — Risks
    Related to Our Business — Our business is subject to
    risks associated with importing products”and“Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our
    Business — Our ability to conduct business in
    international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory,
    political and economic risks.”



Apparel and other products sold by us are also subject to
    regulation in the U.S. and other countries by other
    governmental agencies, including, in the U.S., the Federal Trade
    Commission, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Consumer
    Products Safety Commission, including the recently enacted
    Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (“CPSIA”)
    which imposes new limitations on the permissible amounts of lead
    and phthalates allowed in children’s products. These
    regulations relate principally to product labeling, licensing
    requirements, flammability





testing, and product safety particularly with respect to
    products used by children. We believe that we are in substantial
    compliance with those regulations, as well as applicable
    federal, state, local, and foreign rules and regulations
    governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
    environment. We do not estimate any significant capital
    expenditures for environmental control matters either in the
    current fiscal year or in the near future. Our licensed products
    and licensing partners are also subject to regulation. Our
    agreements require our licensing partners to operate in
    compliance with all laws and regulations, and we are not aware
    of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a
    material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.



Although we have not suffered any material restriction from
    doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot
    assure that significant impediments will not arise in the future
    as we expand product offerings and introduce additional
    trademarks to new markets.



Employees



As of April 3, 2010, we had approximately
    19,000 employees, both full and part-time, consisting of
    approximately 13,000 in the U.S. and approximately 6,000 in
    foreign countries. Approximately 30 of our U.S. production
    and distribution employees in the womenswear business are
    members of UNITE HERE (which was previously known as the Union
    of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, prior to its
    merger with the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees
    International Union) under an industry association collective
    bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has
    adopted. We consider our relations with both our union and
    non-union employees to be good.



Executive
    Officers



The following are our current executive officers and their
    principal recent business experience:



Ralph LaurenAge 70Mr. Lauren has been Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a
    director of the Company since prior to the Company’s
    initial public offering in 1997, and was a member of the
    Advisory Board of the Board of Directors of the Company’s
    predecessors since their organization. He founded Polo in 1967
    and has provided leadership in the design, marketing,
    advertising and operational areas since such time.Roger N. FarahAge 57Mr. Farah has been President, Chief Operating Officer and a
    director of the Company since April 2000. He was Chairman of the
    Board of Venator Group, Inc. from December 1994 to April 2000,
    and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator Group, Inc. from
    December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah is a member of the Board
    of Directors of Aetna, Inc. and Progressive Corp.Jackwyn NemerovAge 58Ms. Nemerov has been Executive Vice President of the Company
    since September 2004 and a director of the Company since
    February 2007. From 1998 to 2002, she was President and Chief
    Operating Officer of Jones Apparel Group, Inc.





Tracey T. TravisAge 47Ms. Travis has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since January 2005. Ms. Travis
    served as Senior Vice President, Finance of Limited Brands, Inc.
    from April 2002 until August 2004, and Chief Financial Officer
    of Intimate Brands, Inc. from April 2001 to April 2002. Prior to
    that time, Ms. Travis was Chief Financial Officer of the
    Beverage Can Americas group at American National Can from 1999
    to 2001, and held various finance and operations positions at
    Pepsi Bottling Group from 1989-1999. Ms. Travis is a member
    of the boards of directors of Jo-Ann Stores, Inc. and the
    Lincoln Center Theater.Mitchell A. KoshAge 60Mr. Kosh has served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources
    of the Company since July 2000. He was Senior Vice President of
    Human Resources of Conseco, Inc., from February 2000 to July
    2000. Prior to that time, Mr. Kosh held executive human resource
    positions with the Venator Group, Inc. starting in 1996.





