Item 1.    Business



General

Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon, or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries, is one of the world’s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. Formerly
known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We have a highly diverse workforce of
approximately 176,800 employees.

Our principal executive offices are located at 140 West Street, New York, New York 10007
(telephone number 212-395-1000).

We have two reportable segments, Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as
strategic business segments and organize by products and services.



WirelessWireless’ communications products
and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business and government customers across the United States.WirelineWireline’s voice, data and video communications products and
enhanced services include broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers
in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.

The following portions of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this
report:



•“Overview” on pages 10 through 12; and,



•“Segment Results of Operations” on pages 17 through 22 and in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 65 through 67.



Wireless

Background

Our Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless. Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless
operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). As of December 31, 2013, Verizon owned a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owned the remaining 45%. Verizon Wireless provides wireless communication
services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the United States and has the largest fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) technology and third-generation (3G) Evolution - Data Optimized (EV-DO) networks of any
U.S. wireless service provider.

On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a stock purchase agreement with Vodafone and
Vodafone 4 Limited, pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire Vodafone’s indirect 45% interest in Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion (the Wireless Transaction). We completed the
transaction on February 21, 2014 and acquired 100% ownership of Verizon Wireless. The consideration paid was primarily comprised of cash and Verizon common stock.

Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless service provider in the United States as measured by retail connections and revenue. At December 31, 2013, Verizon Wireless had 102.8 million retail
connections and 2013 revenues of approximately $81.0 billion, representing approximately 67% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues.

We have substantially completed the deployment of our 4G LTE network. Our 4G LTE network is available to 97% of the U.S. population in more than 500 markets covering approximately 305 million people,
including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America partners. Under this program, we are working with wireless carriers in rural areas to collaboratively build and operate a 4G LTE network using each carrier’s network assets and our
core 4G LTE equipment and 700 MHz C-Block spectrum. Our 4G LTE network provides higher data throughput performance for data services at a lower cost compared to that provided via 3G networks.







Wireless Service and Product Offerings

Our wireless services are available to our customers receiving service under the Verizon Wireless brand. In addition, customers can obtain
wireless products and services that operate on our network from resellers that purchase network access from us on a wholesale basis.

Wireless Services

We offer our wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts represent retail customers under contract with Verizon Wireless that are directly served and
managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. Our postpaid account plans include More Everything®plans, single connection plans, plans tailored to the needs of our corporate customers, as well as legacy single connection plans and family plans that we no longer offer to new accounts. A single account may receive monthly wireless services for a
variety of connected devices. Postpaid connections represent individual lines of service for which a customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge in return for a monthly network service allowance (access service revenues), and usage beyond
the allowance is billed in arrears (usage service revenues). Approximately 94% of our retail connections received our wireless services on a postpaid basis as of December 31, 2013. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless
services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in advance.

®

We offer a wide variety of wireless services, including Internet access, via our broad range of devices.
Our customers can access the Internet on all of our smartphones, as well as our basic phones that include HTML web-browsing capability. We also offer service that enables our customers to access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on
notebook computers and tablets that either have embedded 4G LTE or 3G EV-DO modules, or that are used in conjunction with separate devices that enable access to this service, such as smartphones and USB modems as well as JetpacksTMand other dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi connection.
These devices can be added to the customer’s More Everything plan for an additional monthly fee, or the customer can obtain a separate plan for the device at various price points, depending upon both the size of the data allowance purchased and
the device covered by the plan.

Our customers can make and receive calls on their home phone handsets using our wireless network through our Home Phone Connect service or Verizon 4G LTE Broadband Router with Voice service. We also offer
HomeFusion®Broadband, a high-speed Internet service that provides customers with Internet connections in their
homes using our 4G LTE network.

In addition, we provide network access and, in some cases, enhanced value added services to
support telemetry-type applications, which are characterized by machine-to-machine (M2M) wireless connections. Our M2M services support devices that are used by a variety of vertical market segments, including healthcare, education, manufacturing,
utilities, distribution and consumer products. For example, companies purchase network access and, in some cases, enhanced services from us in order to connect with and monitor equipment, such as medical devices used to monitor patients, fleet
management devices used to monitor company-operated vehicles and utility monitoring devices used for smart grid applications. Other companies purchase network access and, in some cases, enhanced services from us to support devices that are included
in a service they, in turn, sell to end users. We also support telematics services for some of the largest automotive manufacturers. We expect that consumer use of M2M wireless connections, such as home monitoring, health monitoring, energy
management and utilities management will increase as consumers integrate these devices into their mobile lifestyle.







Wireless Devices

We offer several categories of wireless devices, including smartphones, tablets and other Internet access devices as well as basic phones.

Smartphones. Our device line-up includes an array of smartphones that are enabled to utilize our 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO high-speed
data services and run on various operating platforms, such as Apple iOS, Google Android, BlackBerry OS, and Windows Phone OS. In August 2013, we launched the new Verizon Edge device payment plan option which now allows customers to trade in their
phone for a new phone after a minimum of thirty days, subject to certain conditions.

Tablets and Other Internet
Devices.We offer a variety of 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO-enabled tablets from multiple manufacturers that run primarily on either the Apple iOS, Google Android or Microsoft Windows operating system. In 2013, we launched the Ellipsis 7 tablet, which
is available exclusively from Verizon Wireless. The tablets we offer also permit our customers to access the Internet via a Wi-Fi connection. In addition, we offer dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO connection,
which we refer to as Jetpacks, capable of connecting multiple Wi-Fi enabled devices to the Internet at one time. Our customers can also access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their computers via data cards, USB modems or through the
use of certain laptop computers and netbooks with embedded 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules offered by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). During 2013, we continued to experience strong subscriber demand for tablets and other
Internet devices, and the percentage of our retail postpaid connection base represented by connections to these devices continued to increase.

Basic Phones. Most of the basic phones we offer are 3G EV-DO-enabled and have HTML-browsing capability.

We purchase wireless devices and accessories from a number of manufacturers, with the substantial majority of our purchases made from
Apple, Motorola Mobility, Samsung, LG Electronics, BlackBerry, HTC, Hitachi and Quality One Wireless (through which we purchase Pantech devices and accessories).

A key component of all wireless devices is the chipset, which contains the “intelligence” of the device. The LTE chipsets used in our 4G LTE-enabled devices are manufactured by various
companies, each using its own 4G LTE chipset technology. For the manufacture and supply of our CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets, most of our wireless device suppliers rely on Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm). We also sell phones that include CDMA-1XRTT
and EV-DO chipsets manufactured by VIA Telecom under license from Qualcomm. In addition, there are a number of other components common to wireless phones provided by various electronic component manufacturers that we do not deal with directly.

Strategic Initiatives

We have undertaken several initiatives to develop innovative devices, data services and applications available to run on our networks, including the following:



•Mobile Video.Video content is projected to account for a majority of mobile network traffic by 2018. We believe the growth in video
consumption using mobile devices provides us with an opportunity for revenue growth. We have made investments in converging technologies and services involving content delivery networks, video streaming and related consumer hardware to leverage
new content models. Our 4G LTE network enables us to move towards a unified video strategy that positions us to take advantage of this growth opportunity. For example, we are using Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service technology to develop
our LTE Multicast service. This service has the potential to enhance our network efficiency and provide our customers with access to live streaming video content with virtually no buffering, regardless of the number of devices using the
service.



•Mobile Commerce.Every day, large volumes of transactions are carried across our network. As a result, we believe we are well positioned to
influence and benefit from the rapid growth of the mobile commerce market that is being driven by technology advances such as the proliferations of smartphones and tablets. Isis, a mobile commerce platform, represents the first phase of our
initiatives to address this opportunity. Launched in November 2013 as a joint venture with AT&T Inc. (AT&T) and T-Mobile USA, Inc. (T-Mobile USA), Isis enables customers to pay for point-of-sale purchases via their mobile phones using near
field communications technology rather than paying with cash or a credit card. Known as the “ISIS Mobile Wallet,” this service enables customers to organize all of their payment cards, offers and loyalty cards in one convenient application
on their Isis-ready phone.



•Innovation centers.We operate innovation centers in Waltham, Massachusetts and San Francisco. We believe our centers serve as catalysts
for the development of non-traditional devices, services and applications that take full advantage of our 4G LTE network. The centers work with many of our strategic partners representing various industries to help them quickly bring products,
services, applications and solutions to market.

Network

We have the largest 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO networks of any service provider in the United States, with licensed and operational coverage in
all of the 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas. As of January 21, 2014, our 4G LTE network covers approximately 305 million people in the U.S., including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America program.

We strive to provide our customers with the highest network reliability for their wireless services. We design and deploy our
network in an efficient manner that we believe maximizes the number of successful data sessions and completions of large file downloads and uploads while delivering on our advertised throughput speeds, and that maximizes the number of calls that are
connected on the first attempt and completed without being dropped. We plan to continue to expand and upgrade our network, primarily to increase capacity, as well as explore strategic opportunities to expand our national network coverage
through selective acquisitions of wireless operations and spectrum licenses.







In addition to our own network coverage, we have roaming agreements with a number of
wireless service providers to enable our customers to receive wireless service in nearly all other areas in the United States where wireless service is available. We also offer a variety of international wireless voice and data services to our
customers through roaming arrangements with wireless service providers outside of the United States. Certain of our roaming agreements are terminable at will by either party upon several months’ notice; however, we do not believe that the
termination of any of these at-will agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business.

Technology

Our primary network technology platforms are 4G LTE and 3G Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). 4G LTE provides higher data throughput
performance for data services at a lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies. We continue working to expand 4G LTE coverage beyond our network footprint through our LTE in Rural America Program. We currently have 20 committed program
participants that have the potential to provide 4G LTE coverage to approximately three million people under the program and, to date, sixteen participants have commenced operations on such networks.

In 2012, we began testing our mobile Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) network known as Voice over LTE (VoLTE). This technology, which
is expected to be used in addition to the current voice technology, is anticipated to launch commercially in 2014.

Our 3G
CDMA network is based on spread-spectrum digital radio technology. CDMA-1XRTT technology is deployed in nearly all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network. In addition, EV-DO, a 3G packet-based technology intended primarily for high-speed data
transmission, is deployed in substantially all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network.

Our network includes various
elements of redundancy designed to enhance the reliability of our service. Power and backhaul transport facilities can often become a network’s vulnerability. Consequently, we have battery backup at every switch and every cell site in our
network. We also utilize backup generators at a majority of our cell sites and at every switch location. In addition, we have a fleet of portable backup generators that can be deployed to cell sites if needed. We further enhance reliability by using
a fully redundant backbone Multiprotocol Label Switching network in all critical locations.

Spectrum

The spectrum licenses we hold can be used for mobile wireless voice and data communications services. We have licenses to provide these
wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz band, also known as cellular spectrum, the 1800-1900 MHz band, also known as Personal Communication Services (PCS) spectrum, and the 1700 and 2100 MHz band, also known as Advanced Wireless Services (AWS)
spectrum, in areas that, collectively, cover nearly all of the population of the United States. In addition, we hold licenses for portions of the 700 MHz upper C band, including ten licenses that can, together, be used to provide wireless service
coverage to the entire United States and the Gulf of Mexico.

Since 2012, we have entered into several spectrum transactions including:



•In 2012, Verizon Wireless acquired AWS spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo, LLC and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it paid an
aggregate of $3.9 billion at the time of the closings. During 2012, Verizon Wireless also completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap Wireless, and a subsidiary of
T-Mobile USA. As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and transferred certain AWS licenses to T-Mobile USA and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap
Wireless.



•During the first quarter of 2013, we completed license exchange transactions with T-Mobile License LLC and Cricket License Company, LLC, a
subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain AWS licenses. These non-cash exchanges include a number of intra-market swaps that we expect will enable Verizon Wireless to make more efficient use of the AWS band. As a result of these exchanges, we
received an aggregate $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value.



•During the third quarter of 2013, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless sold 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum
licenses to AT&T in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT&T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also sold certain lower 700 MHz B block
spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. As a result, we received $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value.



•During the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into license exchange agreements with T-Mobile USA to exchange certain AWS and PCS licenses. These
non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in the first half of 2014. The exchange includes a number of swaps that we expect will
result in more efficient use of the AWS and PCS bands.







•Subsequent to the transaction with T-Mobile USA in the fourth quarter of 2013, on January 6, 2014, we announced two agreements with T-Mobile
USA with respect to our remaining 700 MHz A block spectrum licenses. Under one agreement, we will sell certain of these licenses to T-Mobile USA in exchange for cash consideration of approximately $2.4 billion, and under the second agreement we
will exchange the remainder of these licenses for AWS and PCS spectrum licenses. These transactions are subject to the approval of the FCC as well as other customary closing conditions. These transactions are expected to close in the middle of
2014.

We anticipate we will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. This increasing demand is being
driven by growth in customer connections and usage of wireless broadband services, which use more bandwidth and require ever faster rates of speed to stay competitive. We can meet spectrum needs by acquiring licenses or leasing spectrum from other
licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses from the FCC, if and when offered by the FCC in future spectrum auctions. Although the availability of new spectrum for commercial wireless services and the possible dates of future FCC spectrum
auctions are uncertain at this time, the FCC and the current Presidential Administration have been seeking the release of additional mobile use spectrum. The FCC is expected to conduct an auction for AWS-3 spectrum in late 2014. In addition,
Congress has adopted legislation that provides for the establishment of a national public safety network and the reallocation and auction, through the use of voluntary incentive auctions, by 2022 of portions of the existing broadcast spectrum. The
incentive auction related to the 600 MHz band is expected to take place in mid-2015 although the specific timing of the AWS-3, 600 MHz and other auctions will be determined by future regulatory proceedings.

Since we and competing wireless service providers have experienced spectrum shortages in certain markets and may have spectrum surpluses
in others, we have at times exchanged spectrum licenses with other service providers through secondary market swap transactions. We expect to continue to pursue similar opportunities to trade spectrum licenses in order to meet certain of our
capacity and expansion needs in the future. In other cases, Verizon Wireless has entered into intra-market spectrum swaps designed to increase the amount of contiguous spectrum within frequency bands in a specific market. Contiguous spectrum
improves network performance and efficiency. These swaps as well as any spectrum purchases are subject to obtaining governmental approvals for the transfer of spectrum licenses in each instance.

Network Equipment and Build-out

Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson are currently our primary network vendors for our LTE network deployments for macro sites as well as small cells. Our primary CDMA cell site equipment infrastructure vendors
are Alcatel-Lucent, which provides more than half of our CDMA cell site equipment, and Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) and Ericsson, which together provide nearly all of our remaining cell site equipment. We also rely on Alcatel-Lucent, NSN and
Ericsson for our switching equipment.

As we continue to build and upgrade our existing network, we must complete a variety of
steps, including securing rights to a large number of sites and obtaining zoning and other governmental approvals for macro sites, small cells, in-building systems and antennas and related radio equipment that comprise distributed antenna systems.
We utilize tower site management firms, such as Crown Castle International Corp. and American Tower Corporation, as lessors or managers of a portion of our existing tower sites upon which our operations depend.

Marketing and Distribution

Our marketing strategy is focused on offering solutions tailored to the needs of our various customer market groups; promoting our brand; leveraging our extensive distribution network; and jointly
marketing our products and services to large business and government customers with Verizon’s Wireline business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions, a sales and marketing organization that encompasses all of Verizon’s solutions for
medium and large business and government customers globally. Our marketing plan includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions designed to present our corporate message
consistently across all of our markets. We use a combination of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.

Company-operated stores are a core component of our distribution strategy. Our direct channel, which includes our business-to-business
sales operations and systems organization, is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of consumers and local, regional and national business customers. In addition, we have a telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming
calls from customers, and we offer fully-automated, end-to-end web-based sales of wireless devices, accessories and service plans.

In November 2013, we launched our first Verizon Destination store at Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota. The store focuses on the mobile lifestyle and highlights the many ways consumers can use
wireless technology in their daily lives. The store is part of a broader initiative that includes the redesign of our retail stores nationwide, to become “smart stores.” These newly redesigned locations showcase the same mobile lifestyle
zones as the Verizon Destination store but on a smaller scale. During the next few years, we plan to open additional destination stores in high traffic locations across the country. In addition, our online store and Gadgets & Gear portal
have also been redesigned to deliver a consistent shopping experience for customers across browsers and mobile platforms.

Our
indirect channel includes agents that sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services at retail locations throughout the United States, as well as through the Internet. The majority of these agents sell both our postpaid and prepaid
products and services, and do so under exclusive selling arrangements with us. We also utilize high-profile, national retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart, RadioShack and Target, to sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services.
Stores such as Dollar General and various drugstore chains sell our prepaid products and services. We have also entered into agency agreements with a number of broadband, video and voice service providers through which our products and services are
sold on a stand-alone basis or bundled with their services.







Competition

We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete against other national wireless service providers, including AT&T, Sprint Corporation and T-Mobile USA, as well as various regional wireless
service providers. We also compete for retail activations with resellers that buy bulk wholesale service from facilities-based wireless service providers for resale, including those that buy from us. We expect competition to intensify as a result of
continuing increases in wireless market penetration levels, network investment, the development and deployment of new technologies, the introduction of new products and services, new market entrants, the availability of additional spectrum, both
licensed and unlicensed, and regulatory changes. Competition may also increase as smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized wireless service providers.

The wireless industry also faces competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to increase their brand
recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. For example, Microsoft, Google, Apple and others are offering alternative means for making wireless voice calls that, in certain cases, can be
used in lieu of the wireless provider’s voice service.

We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors in our
industry:



•Network reliability, capacity and coverage.We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service
is a key differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new wireless service offerings, which in many cases include video content, have led to increased customer usage of wireless
services, which, in turn, puts pressure on network capacity. In order to compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that
our 4G LTE network will help us to keep pace with network capacity requirements and meet customer demand for higher speeds.



•Pricing.Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services
continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering service plans that include unlimited voice minutes and text messages and a specific amount of data access in varying megabyte or gigabyte sizes or, in some cases, unlimited data usage. In
addition, certain wireless service providers are also offering minutes-sharing plans; larger bundles of included minutes with no roaming or long distance charges; features that enable customers to place and receive calls from a group of
self-designated U.S. phone numbers (including landline numbers) at no additional charge; and both prepaid and postpaid plans offering unlimited voice and data usage. Wireless service providers are also offering price plans that decouple service
pricing from equipment pricing and blur the traditional boundary between prepaid and postpaid plans. In addition, some wireless service providers are offering a credit to new customers to reimburse early termination fees paid to their former
wireless service provider, subject to certain limitations.

We seek to compete in this area by offering our
customers price plans for our services, as well as equipment offers, that they will regard as the best available value for the price.



•Customer service.We believe that high-quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and attracting new customers,
including those of other wireless providers. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services in order to promote long-term relationships and minimize
churn. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are also focused on improving in this area.



•Product and service development.As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue
growth will be increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced data products and services. We continue to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative wireless products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application service providers. We also collaborate with various device manufacturers in the development of distinctive smartphones and other wireless devices that can access the growing array of data applications and content
available over the Internet. We continue to focus on increasing smartphone penetration throughout our customer base.



•Sales and distribution.Key to achieving sales success in the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution
points. We believe that attaining the optimal combination of varying distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our company-operated stores,
outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations and netbook and notebook OEMs. In addition,
we sell network access to both traditional resellers, which resell network services to their end-users, and to various companies to enable wireless communications for their M2M devices or for their provision of telematics services.



•Capital resources.In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service
providers require significant capital resources. We generate significant cash flow from operations, as do some of our competitors.

Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various factors affecting the wireless industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business
models, changes in customer preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies of competitors.







Wireline

Background

Our Wireline segment provides voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services including broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services,
security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in
over 150 other countries around the world. In 2013, Wireline revenues were $39.2 billion, representing approximately 33% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues.

Wireline Service and Product Offerings

We organize our service and product
offerings by the primary customers targeted by these offerings – mass markets, global enterprise and global wholesale.

In 2012, Verizon acquired HUGHES Telematics, Inc. (HUGHES Telematics). The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more
telematics offerings to market for existing and new customers. These offerings include our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications which connect automobiles with content, applications and services. We provide services to
new vehicles in the United States and in 2013, we extended our agreement with two auto manufacturers to provide services for new vehicles in China and in Europe. See “Strategic Initiatives – Verizon Telematics” for additional
information.

During 2011, we enhanced our offerings of cloud services by acquiring Terremark Worldwide Inc. (Terremark), a
global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services, and by acquiring a provider of cloud software technology. These acquisitions improved Verizon’s competitive position in the managed hosting and cloud services space,
enhanced our offerings to business and government customers globally and contributed to our growth in revenues.

Mass Markets

Mass Markets operations provide broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS Internet and FiOS Video
services), local exchange (basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice services to residential and small business subscribers. In 2013, Mass Markets revenues were $17.3 billion, representing approximately 44%
of Wireline’s aggregate revenues.

Data services.We offer FiOS broadband and high-speed Internet data products
with varying downstream and upstream processing speeds, including FiOS Quantum. With FiOS Quantum, customers can achieve download speeds up to 500 megabytes per second (Mbps) and upload speeds up to 100 Mbps. We believe that as consumers power more
devices and stream more video, they will require increased broadband speeds. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 45% of our FiOS Internet subscribers subscribe to FiOS Quantum.

Video Services.We offer video service over our fiber-optic network. As of December 31, 2013, FiOS Video is available to
approximately 15 million homes across 12 states, as well as the District of Columbia. We believe FiOS Video has features that differentiate it from the competition, including its channel line-up, Interactive Media Guide, Home Media DVR and
breadth of high definition content, as well as the following:



•Flex View– With Flex View, FiOS customers can watch content anytime, anywhere, on any device. Customers who subscribe to FiOS Video and
Internet also have the ability to upload their photos, music and videos to their personal Flex View Library, which gives them easy access to this content via any data-capable device. The HBO GO offering provides customers with unlimited access to
HBO programming on any data-capable device. Verizon’s FiOS Video subscribers can also access Turner Broadcasting’s online programming directly on the TBS and TNT sites and through Verizon FiOS Video Online. In addition, through FiOS TV
Widgets, viewers have one-touch, on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information and popular social media applications, such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, as well as online commerce opportunities. The widget platform has
evolved in an open-development environment, which provides opportunities for third parties to develop enhanced customer features via the FiOS Video product.



•Customer Premise Equipment interoperability– We continue to partner with major corporations to offer further interoperability with
various products such as video game consoles, smart televisions and tablets. This technology further expands our initiative to provide customers with the ability to watch content anytime, anywhere, on any data-capable device.

Voice services.We offer voice services that include local exchange, regional, long distance, wire
maintenance and voice messaging services, as well as VoIP services, which use the Internet or private broadband networks to transmit voice communications.







Global Enterprise

Global Enterprise offers Strategic services, including networking products and solutions, advanced communications services, and other core communications services to medium and large business customers,
including multinational corporations, as well as state and federal government customers. Global Enterprise jointly markets these services with Verizon’s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions. In 2013, Global Enterprise
revenues were $14.7 billion, representing approximately 38% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues.

Strategic services.Strategic services consist of networking products and solutions, advanced communication services for voice and video, and security, infrastructure and cloud services.

Networking products and solutions primarily include:



•Private IP– This service, built on multiprotocol label switching, enables customers to leverage the efficiency, performance and value
of IP in a secure manner. Our Private IP network allows customers to communicate over a private, secure network in more than 120 countries using a variety of access methods, including Ethernet and Verizon Wireless 4G LTE.



•Other corporate networking services– Other services primarily include Ethernet access and ring services. Ethernet services allow
customers to connect network environments around the world and enable applications and technologies to work seamlessly and with little disruption. Ring services include technologies that help customers handle bandwidth demands and control their
costs.

Advanced communication services primarily include:



•IP communications– Our IP communications services simplify network management and drive operational efficiencies by enabling the
convergence of voice and data traffic on the same access connection.



•Infrastructure and cloud services– Our infrastructure and cloud services include Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and managed hosting
services that provide enterprise customers with data center, computing, data storage and network facilities, connectivity, security, architecture and support; data center colocation services that house and protect customers’ critical
applications and systems, including several facilities that offer extensive carrier neutral options; application management services that provide customers with comprehensive monitoring and management of applications; and advanced enterprise-class
cloud services that provide organizations with the ability to virtualize IT resources such as computing, memory and storage, enabling their constituents to produce, store, process, consume and share information.



•Machine-to-Machine (M2M) Services– Our acquisition of HUGHES Telematics in July 2012 provided a technology platform that we are
leveraging in M2M markets, which has enabled us to further develop strategic partnerships in the automotive, transportation, energy, health monitoring, education and insurance industries. M2M services permit customers to connect and monitor
equipment, such as medical devices, fleet management devices and utility monitoring devices. We believe that these services, which are enabled on a large scale by 4G LTE wireless technology, have the ability to reshape the way businesses operate and
the way consumers interact with devices around them. Verizon offers platform-based solutions tailored to specific industries to enable value creation and new commercial business models. Our goal is to be a leader in implementing the next
generation of connected services for vehicles, centered on a core platform of safety, security, fleet management, convenience and other offerings targeting commercial fleet operators, individual consumers and other
customers.



•Security– We provide integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data through the following services:



¡Security professional services–
Security consultants that construct security plans tailored to the needs of our customers;¡Governance, risk and compliance –Allows customers to assess risk levels based on current security
controls and develop plans to address security-related compliance objectives;¡Identity management –Provides identity-based access management for customer data, application, and systems across multiple IT environments;¡Managed security –We design,
implement, and maintain a secure IT infrastructure for our clients and help them prevent, detect, and report security threats.



•Other advanced communications services– Other services primarily include: dedicated Internet access, which provides enterprise
customers with high-bandwidth dedicated access to Verizon’s global network, unified communications and collaboration capabilities, which enable customers to communicate in real time through VoIP and IP conferencing, and emergency communication
services, which allow customers to respond effectively to emergencies while maintaining business continuity.

Core services. Core services include core voice and data services, which consist of a comprehensive portfolio of global solutions
utilizing traditional telecommunications technology, such as conferencing and contact center solutions, and private line and data access networks. Core services also include providing customer premise equipment, installation, maintenance and site
services. We are continuing to transition customers out of historical core services such as Frame Relay and Asynchronous Transfer Mode services.

Global Wholesale

Global Wholesale provides communications services
including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers. In 2013, Global Wholesale revenues were $6.7 billion, representing
approximately 17% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues. A portion of Global Wholesale revenues is generated by a few large telecommunications companies, most of which compete directly with us.







Global Wholesale provides the following services, which it jointly markets with
Verizon’s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions:



•Data services.We offer a robust portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance our wholesale customers’ networks
and provide connections to their end users and subscribers. Our data services include high-speed digital data offerings, such as Ethernet and Synchronous Optical Network, as well as core data circuits, such as DS1s and DS3s. In addition, data
services include special access revenues that are generated from carriers that buy dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks.

New Ethernet connectivity in the United States represents the largest data growth opportunity in wholesale, as we pursue
our technology upgrade initiative and customers look to the future and higher capacity demands. These customers are also migrating networks from time division multiplexing to Ethernet, which will better scale and service the growth of broadband
services driven by smartphones, mobile broadband and mobile video. Global Wholesale offers a complete suite of services to support the expansion of 4G and 3G networks.

Data services also include certain value-added business services, which leverage many of the same offerings available in
the Global Enterprise portfolio, including:



¡Managed services– Offers wholesale
customers the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access, and web applications to Verizon;¡Mobility– Enables wholesale customers to enhance their portfolio to triple-play or quad-play capability
by leveraging wireless devices and services offered through Verizon Wireless and packaged and resold under their own carrier brand; and¡Security– Provides wholesale customers integrated solutions to help their enterprise end-users secure
their networks and data.



•Voice services.We provide switched access services that allow carriers to complete their end-user calls that originate or terminate within
our territory.



•Local services.We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are offered
to comply with telecommunications regulations. In addition, we offer services such as colocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with applicable regulations.

Other

Other
services include such services as local exchange and long distance services derived from former MCI mass market customers and operator services. In 2013, Other revenues were $0.5 billion, representing approximately 1% of Wireline’s aggregate
revenues.

Strategic Initiatives

Technology developments, interconnected markets, shifting consumer needs and converging industry ecosystems are creating innovative opportunities for Verizon. Our vision is to be a globally-connected
solutions company. Our market solutions are designed to deliver best-in-class products and services, strengthen our competitive advantage in the marketplace and drive a high-quality experience for our customers. To take advantage of these
market trends, we have undertaken several strategic initiatives to further develop innovative products and services and enhance our market agility in the following areas of focus:



•Broadband.Customers are increasingly consuming large amounts of broadband data as connected devices and associated online applications
continue to experience significant growth. U.S. broadband usage has more than doubled in the past two years and we expect broadband usage to continue to increase. Our FiOS network positions us in the industry with leading broadband speeds and
reliability. Broadband represents a growth opportunity for us as the use of over-the-top video, user generated content and data, and connected homes and devices continue to accelerate.



•Consumer and Enterprise Video.Our FiOS Video service continues to experience consumer growth. We are enhancing our FiOS service by providing
customers with increasing mobility options to view content in and out of the home to meet the demand for video consumption anywhere and at any time.



•Cloud Services.Capitalizing on market growth in cloud services and on enterprise trends toward outsourcing IT infrastructure and services,
Verizon introduced an evolutionary cloud platform built for speed and performance, using our own software-based intellectual property and enterprise-grade reliability. Verizon Cloud Compute and Cloud Storage adopt a new approach to how public
clouds are built, enabling customers of all sizes to take advantage of the agility and economic benefit of a generic public cloud along with the reliability and scale of an enterprise-level service, while maintaining control of performance. Virtual
machines (software-based computers and servers) can be created and deployed in seconds, and users build and pay for what they need.

Our cloud infrastructure also enables real-time analytical capabilities for our M2M customers, providing an end-to-end capability where customers can store, process and analyze large amounts of data on a
real-time basis. Our cloud infrastructure also has the ability to handle multiple instances of an application providing global support and availability of the applications without increased latency. The integration of our cloud infrastructure with
our telematics assets provides our customers with new and innovative service capabilities that are scalable, and which we believe are operationally superior to other bifurcated approaches.







•Security.With new technologies changing how enterprises do business, the cyber security landscape continues to evolve. We believe that
businesses are making business and customer data protection one of their highest priorities in order to protect their brand and enhance customer loyalty. We believe that Verizon has an advantage in its ability to reduce cyber risks and mitigate the
damaging impact of advanced cyber attacks due to the volume of traffic carried globally on our networks. We will continue to advance our portfolio of forensics services and managed security services, building new capabilities to identify risks and
threats and expanding our IT Security professional services and outsourcing.



•Verizon Telematics.Our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications connects automobiles with content, services and
call centers. Our platform enables factory installed and aftermarket automotive safety and security as well as location-based services and vehicle diagnostics. We provide usage-based data services to new vehicles in the United States and in
2013 we extended our agreement with two auto manufacturers to provide services for new vehicles in China and in Europe. Through our In-Drive solution, we have partnered with a major automotive insurance provider to deliver usage-based insurance
programs and other connected applications. Our NetworkFleet solution provides commercial fleet managers throughout North America with real-time access to data that yields operational efficiencies, increased vehicle reliability and improved driver
safety. We also provide this service to approximately 18,000 vehicles operated by Verizon. We are further expanding our telematics portfolio to add asset tracking capabilities.

In addition to these strategic areas of focus, we are investing in Verizon Labs and the Software Center of Excellence to support software
development and architecture as well as development stage products and services. We believe these investments will assist us in bringing innovative next-generation products and services to market and uncover new sources of revenue, increase revenue
of existing projects and leverage our strengths across the company.

Network

To provide services to our customers, we operate an advanced telecommunications network in the United States and around the world.



•FiOS.Our goal is to distinguish FiOS as a premier residential broadband service in the United States. As of December 31, 2013, our FiOS
service passed over 18.5 million premises, and our latest FiOS Quantum service offerings now provide download speeds up to 500 Mbps and upload speeds up to 100 Mbps. New services such as the FiOS Mobile App are also extending our TV experience
to a host of mobile devices. We expect bandwidth demands to grow with the continued emergence of new video and data applications and the proliferation of IP devices in the home.

The Passive Optical Network technology upon which the FiOS network is deployed positions Verizon to meet growing bandwidth
requirements. Our network architecture provides the flexibility to adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. For example, new optical terminals can be added to the fiber-to-the-premise network providing greater bandwidth and
new services without any additional field construction. Select field trials have successfully achieved connection speeds of nearly one gigabit per second (Gbps), and when a more advanced next-generation technology has been connected to the
fiber-optic network, connection speeds of 10 Gbps have been reached, demonstrating the significant growth capacity built into the FiOS platform.

Additionally, this advanced optical network is also finding increased application opportunities in the business sector, especially as the industry seeks to migrate to Ethernet-based access services.



•Global IP. Verizon owns and operates one of the largest global fiber networks with long haul, metro and submarine cable assets providing
connectivity to customers in over 150 countries. Verizon’s global network encompasses over 830,000 route miles of terrestrial and undersea cable, serving the business community to support and enable far reaching international operations.

Global IP traffic has increased substantially over the last five years and is expected to
continue to grow significantly. This global business is also rapidly evolving to an “everything-as-a-service” model in which business customers seek cloud-based, converged enterprise solutions delivered securely via managed and
professional services. With the continued deployment of its packet optical transport strategy, Verizon is creating a single, high-capacity global network platform that combines optical transport with advanced packet switching technology. The result
is a global IP network that can offer powerful solutions to these service demands.

Although overall Wireline
capital expenditures declined in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily as a result of decreased legacy spending requirements and a decline in spending on our FiOS network, we furthered our Global IP network expansion initiatives into Europe, Asia, Africa
and South America, as well as the continued deployment of the industry’s first commercial 100G Gbps technology on U.S. and European backbone routes. More than 13,000 100G Ultra-Long-Haul route miles were added to the global IP network in 2013,
and we plan to further extend our 100G technology in 2014.

We believe that our continued focus on advancing our fiber-based
networks and achieving cost efficient solutions through new technology deployments will help Verizon advance its position as a provider of choice to residential and enterprise customers.







Competition

The wireline telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional, non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current
and potential competitors include cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, Internet service providers and other companies that offer network services and
managed enterprise solutions.

In addition, companies with a global presence increasingly compete with our wireline
businesses. A relatively small number of telecommunications and integrated service providers with global operations serve customers in the global enterprise and, to a lesser extent, global wholesale markets. We compete with these full or near-full
service providers for large contracts to provide integrated services to global enterprises. Many of these companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying
competition and which may affect our future revenue growth.

We believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in
the wireline industry:



•Customer service: Customers expect industry-leading service from their service providers. As technologies and services evolve, the ability to
excel in this area is very important for customer acquisition and retention. In Mass Markets, we compete in this area through our service representatives and online support. In Global Enterprise, we provide our customers with ready access to their
system and performance information, and we conduct proactive testing of our network to identify issues before they affect customers. In the wholesale business, we believe service improvement can be achieved through continued system automation
initiatives.



•Network reliability and bandwidth (speed):As both consumers and small business customers look to leverage high-speed connections for
entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect broadband penetration will continue to increase over the next several years. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream. To
succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver against these increasing bandwidth requirements. We continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and
security are increasingly important competitive factors in the global enterprise market.



•Pricing:Cable, telecommunications companies and integrated service providers use pricing to capture market share from incumbents. Pricing is
also a significant factor as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, VoIP and portal-based calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by
advertising revenues.



•Product differentiation:As a result of pricing pressures, providers need to differentiate their products and services. Customers are
shifting their focus from access to applications and are seeking ways to leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, driven by both
customer demand and technological advancement.

In the Mass Markets business, cable operators are
significant competitors. Cable operators have increased the size and digital capacity of their networks so that they can offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled offerings that include high-speed Internet
access, digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships.

In addition, wireless substitution is an ongoing competitive trend, which we expect to continue as wireless companies position their service as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition
from cable companies and other providers of VoIP services as well as Internet portal providers.

As a result of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale or access components of our network on an unbundled basis at a prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues.
Our telephone operations generally have been required to sell their services to competitive local exchange carriers at significant discounts from the prices our telephone operations charge their retail customers. The scope of these obligations going
forward and the rates we receive are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. (See “Regulatory and Competitive Trends” in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners.)

In the global enterprise market, the customer’s need to reduce technical complexity coupled with the growth opportunity created by
technology convergence is driving the expansion of the competitive landscape. Major competitors include system integrators, carriers and hardware and software providers. Some of the biggest companies in IT services are either making acquisitions or
forging new alliances to be better positioned for a rebound in technology spending. Most new alliances and acquisitions have focused on emerging fields such as cloud computing, software delivery, communication applications and other computing tasks
via the network, rather than on in-house machines. Carriers have also utilized acquisitions to make significant inroads into enterprise outsourcing markets that have long been dominated by the major IT outsourcers.

Global Wholesale competes with traditional carriers for long-haul, voice and IP services. In addition, mobile video and data needs are
driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this new revenue opportunity.







Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Verizon owns or has licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other
intellectual property rights necessary to conduct our business. We actively pursue the filing and registration of patents, copyrights, domain names, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property rights within the United States
and abroad. Verizon also actively grants licenses, in exchange for appropriate fees or other consideration and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to other companies that enable such companies to utilize certain Verizon intellectual
property rights and proprietary technology as part of their products and services. Such licenses enable such third party licensees to take advantage of the results of Verizon’s research and development efforts. While these licenses result in
valuable consideration being paid to Verizon, we do not believe that loss of such consideration, or the expiration of any of our intellectual property rights, would have a material effect on our results of operations.

Verizon periodically receives offers from third parties to purchase or obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual property rights
in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents or other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly or against
third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, if successful, could require us to pay damages or royalties, or cease offering the relevant products or services.



Acquisitions and Divestitures

“Acquisitions and Divestitures” on pages 32 through 33 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to
Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.



Regulatory and Competitive Trends

“Regulatory and Competitive Trends” included in “Other Factors That May Affect Future
Results” on pages 34 through 35 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.



Environmental Matters

“Environmental Matters” included in “Other Factors That May Affect Future Results” on
page 35 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.



Executive Officers

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our executive officers.



Employees

As of December 31, 2013, Verizon and its subsidiaries had approximately 176,800 employees. Unions
represent approximately 28% of our employees.



Information on Our Internet Website

We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/investor. Verizon has adopted a code of ethics, as that term is defined in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, which applies to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. A copy of this code may be found on our website at www.verizon.com/investor. Any amendments to this code or any waiver of this code for any executive officer will be posted on that website.







Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report and in
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:



•the ability to realize the expected benefits of the Wireless Transaction in the timeframe expected or at all;



•an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of further financing;



•significantly increased levels of indebtedness as a result of the Wireless Transaction;



•changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation;



•adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;



•material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;



•material changes in technology or technology substitution;



•disruption of our key suppliers’ provisioning of products or services;



•changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;



•breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any
resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;



•the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate;



•changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or
their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;



•significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; and



•the inability to implement our business strategies.







