Item 1.    Business



General

Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon, or the Company)
is one of the world’s leading providers of communications services. Formerly known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon Communications Inc. on
June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We completed the acquisition of Alltel Corporation (Alltel) on January 9, 2009, making Verizon the largest wireless service provider in the United States (U.S.) in terms of the total
number of customers and revenues. Stressing diversity and commitment to the communities in which we operate, we have a highly diverse workforce of approximately 222,900 employees.

Our principal executive offices are located at 140 West Street, New York, New York 10007 (telephone number 212-395-1000).

We have two primary reportable segments, Domestic Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business segments and organize by products and services. These
segments and principal activities consist of the following:



Domestic WirelessDomestic Wireless’s products and
services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales across the U.S.WirelineWireline’s communications products and services include voice,
Internet access, broadband video and data, next generation Internet protocol (IP) network services, network access, long distance and other services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the U.S., as well as to carriers, businesses
and government customers both in the U.S. and in 150 other countries around the world.

The following portions of the 2009
Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this report:



•“Overview” on pages 14 through 16;



•“Segment Results of Operations” on pages 21 through 26 and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 68 through 70;
and,



•“Discontinued Operations” and “Extraordinary Item” included in “Consolidated Results of Operations” on pages 20
through 21.



Domestic Wireless

Background

Our Domestic Wireless segment, Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless (Verizon Wireless), is a joint venture formed in April
2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). Verizon owns a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless, and Vodafone owns the remaining 45%. In 2009, Domestic Wireless revenues
were $62,131 million, representing approximately 58% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues. Domestic Wireless is not dependent on any single customer.

Alltel Acquisition and Integration

On June 5, 2008, Verizon Wireless entered into an agreement and plan
of merger with Alltel, a provider of wireless voice and data services to consumer and business customers in 34 states, and its controlling stockholder, Atlantis Holdings LLC, to acquire, in an all-cash merger, 100% of the equity of Alltel for cash
consideration of $5.9 billion and the assumption of approximately $24 billion of aggregate principal amount of Alltel debt. Verizon Wireless closed the transaction on January 9, 2009. See – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Recent Developments” in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareowners.

Substantially all of the Alltel markets that are not
subject to divestiture have been re-branded to “Verizon Wireless.” As a result of the acquisition of Alltel, we have experienced cost savings from reduced roaming costs, the elimination of duplicate facilities and reduced overall
expenses relating to advertising, overhead and headcount. We also expect to experience reduced overall combined capital expenditures as a result of greater economies of scale and the redeployment of redundant network assets. Our network and
Alltel’s network both employ code division multiple access (CDMA) technology, which is facilitating the integration of Alltel’s network operations with ours. We cannot, however, ensure that we will be able to achieve all of the anticipated
cost savings and other benefits discussed above.







Operations

Verizon Wireless provides wireless voice and data services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the U.S. and has the largest third generation (3G) network of any U.S. wireless
service provider. Verizon Wireless is the industry–leading wireless service provider in the U.S., in terms of operating income. With our acquisition of Alltel, Verizon Wireless became the largest wireless service provider in the United States,
as measured by the total number of customers and revenues.

Competition

The
wireless industry also faces competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to increase their brand recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. Other participants
in the wireless value chain, including data application and content providers and device manufacturers, are introducing products and services directly to wireless consumers, rather than through wireless service providers, in order to compete more
effectively for wireless data revenues. Also, several device makers are making third-party applications and content available by bundling them with their products. For example, Apple Inc. is packaging software applications and content with its
phones, and Google Inc. (Google) has developed an open operating system and related applications for mobile devices that has been deployed on phones that we and certain other wireless service providers currently offer. In addition, in January 2010,
Google began selling its own branded phone directly to consumers via its web store. Third parties, such as Skype, are also now offering alternative means for making wireless voice calls that, in certain cases, can be used in lieu of the wireless
provider’s voice service.

We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors in our industry:



•Network Reliability, Capacity and Coverage.We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service
is a key differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new data service offerings have led to increased customer usage of wireless services, which in turn impacts network
capacity. In order to compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that we have the nation’s most reliable wireless
voice and data network. Third-party studies conducted in the fourth quarter of 2009 show that, on a percentage basis, we have the fewest dropped calls and the fewest ineffective attempts among the national wireless service providers in the 100 most
populous U.S. metropolitan areas. We continue to look for opportunities to expand our network through the build-out of our existing spectrum and the acquisition of new operating markets.



•Pricing. Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape, as evidenced by increases in the
marketing of minutes-sharing plans, free mobile-to-mobile calling, offerings of larger bundles of included minutes at attractive price points with no roaming or long distance charges, calling group features that enable customers to place and receive
calls from a group of U.S. phone numbers they designate (including domestic landline numbers) without the call time counting against their minute allotment, and both prepaid and postpaid plans offering unlimited voice and data usage. We seek to
compete in this area by offering our customers services and equipment that they will regard as the best available value for the price, as well as service plans that meet their needs for both voice and data services. In January 2010, we launched a
streamlined group of voice plans and data packages, including postpaid and prepaid plans with unlimited minutes and messaging, which provide our customers with simplified pricing options. We believe that this simplified approach will be attractive
to our customers, drive greater adoption of data services and result in even higher customer satisfaction.



•Customer Service. We believe that high quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and in attracting both new-to-wireless
customers and customers of other wireless providers. We continually focus on enhancing our customer service. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are also focusing on improving the customer experience.



•Product Development. As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue growth will
be increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced products and services. We are committed to continuing to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative devices, products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application service providers and device manufacturers, and to make available to our customers distinctive wireless devices and services that can access the growing array of data applications and content available over the
Internet.



•Sales and Distribution.Key to achieving sales success in the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution
points. We believe that attaining the optimal mix of direct, indirect and wholesale distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our
company-operated stores, outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations and portable
computer original equipment manufacturers. In addition, we have various resellers who buy our service on a wholesale basis.







•Capital Resources.In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service
providers require significant capital resources.

Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and
respond to various factors affecting the wireless industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business models, changes in customer preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions, and
pricing strategies of competitors.

Network

Our network is among the largest in the U.S., with licensed and operational coverage in all of the top 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas. Our network covers a population of approximately
290 million and provides service to our customer base of nearly 91.2 million, as of December 31, 2009.

A key
part of our business strategy is to provide the highest network reliability. We are focused on designing and deploying our network in a manner that we believe maximizes the number of calls that are connected and completed by our customers on the
first attempt. We plan to continue to build out, expand and upgrade our network and explore strategic opportunities to expand our national network coverage through selective acquisitions of wireless operations and spectrum licenses.

Our primary network technology platform is CDMA, based on spread-spectrum digital radio technology. CDMA-1XRTT technology is deployed in
virtually all of our cell sites in our CDMA network. In addition, EV-DO, a third-generation packet-based technology intended primarily for high-speed data transmission, is deployed in approximately 94% of the cell sites in our CDMA network, as of
December 31, 2009. Additional EV-DO deployment is ongoing, as is the integration of the Alltel portion of our network. We also provide GSM service and fulfill GSM roaming obligations in certain markets as a result of our purchases of Rural
Cellular Corporation and Alltel.

Our network includes various elements of redundancy designed to enhance the reliability of
our service. Power and transport facilities can often become a network’s vulnerability. Consequently, we have battery backup at every switch and virtually every cell site in our network. We also utilize backup generators at a majority of our
cell sites and at every switch location. We further ensure reliability by providing secondary transport facilities for critical links in the network.

Competing wireless service providers have chosen GSM or other technologies as the technology platforms for their 3G networks. While we believe our 3G CDMA technology offers many advantages compared to
GSM, such as more efficient spectrum usage and lower overall operating costs, GSM substantially leads in worldwide market share, affording its users certain scale advantages.

In 2009, we continued to develop our fourth generation (4G) wireless broadband network using Long Term Evolution (LTE) technology. This new technology follows GSM’s
evolutionary path but is different from, and is expected to be an improvement upon, the previous generations of both GSM and CDMA-based digital radio technologies. LTE networks are designed to provide higher throughput performance and improved
efficiencies for 4G wireless voice and data services. We plan to launch our LTE network in 25 to 30 markets in 2010, and to cover virtually all of our current 3G network footprint by the end of 2013. Many other major wireless service providers, both
domestic and foreign, have also selected LTE as the technology for their 4G deployments and, in December 2009, one such provider, TeliaSonera, launched commercial LTE service in Norway and Sweden. We believe that LTE will provide us with the
opportunity to adopt an access platform with global scale.

Concurrent with ongoing LTE standards development, we are
presently conducting tests of LTE technology with vendors. These tests are being conducted at several locations in the United States. In February 2009, we selected Ericsson and Alcatel-Lucent as primary network vendors for our initial LTE network
deployments in the United States. We continue to conduct validation testing in conjunction with initial commercial deployments. We expect that technology testing and assessments will continue as the LTE technology and standards are advanced.

We have also created the Verizon Wireless LTE Innovation Center, which we believe will serve as a catalyst for the early
development of non-traditional products for use on LTE networks. The center will work with several of our strategic partners to help the consumer electronics industry quickly bring products to market.

Open Development Program

As part of our open development program intended to provide customers with the ability to use, on our network, devices and mobile applications that we do not sell, in 2008, we published the technical interface standards that the development
community is using in order to design such devices. In August 2009, we published updated standards that developers will need to design such devices that can run on the LTE network that we plan to launch in 25 to 30 markets in 2010. In addition, we
have certified three independent laboratories to perform testing of third-party devices to ensure that they conform to our technical interface standards in order to operate on our network.

We believe that our open development program will spur innovation, expand customer choices and produce an array of new products for use on our network and, as a result, increase
customer connections to our network. Since July 2008, we have certified numerous third-party devices to run on our network.

Additionally, in August 2009, we consummated the formation of a joint venture company, nPhase, which we own equally with Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm). nPhase is expected to facilitate our provision of machine-to-machine wireless
communications solutions to a variety of vertical market segments, including healthcare, manufacturing, utilities, distribution and consumer products.







Spectrum

We have licenses to provide wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz and/or 1800-1900 MHz spectrum bands in areas where approximately 99% of the estimated U.S. population reside, as of
December 31, 2009. We obtained our spectrum assets through FCC lotteries, auctions and allotments, and acquisitions from and exchanges with private parties. In parts of the U.S., we also have licenses for AWS spectrum in segments of the 1700
and 2100 MHz bands.

In addition, in November 2008, the FCC granted us 109 licenses for portions of the 700 MHz band for
which we were the winning bidder in FCC Auction 73. Certain of these licenses can be used to provide wireless service coverage to the entire population of the U.S. (except Alaska). The spectrum we hold can be used for mobile wireless voice and data
communications services, including text and multi-media messaging, location based services, machine-to-machine services and broadband Internet access. We plan to use the AWS and 700 MHz spectrum mainly for advanced broadband wireless services
utilizing LTE technology. When combined, the various bands described above give us a national average spectrum depth of approximately 88 MHz, as of December 31, 2009.

We anticipate that we will need additional spectrum in a limited number of our markets to meet future demand. We can meet spectrum needs by acquiring licenses or leasing spectrum
from other licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses if and when offered by the FCC in future spectrum auctions. The availability of new spectrum for commercial wireless services and the possible dates of future FCC spectrum auctions are
unknown at this time. As we and competing wireless service providers have experienced spectrum shortages in certain markets and have spectrum surpluses in others, we have at times arranged spectrum swaps, and we expect to have opportunities to use
the beneficial trading of spectrum licenses in order to meet certain of our capacity and expansion needs in the future, subject to obtaining governmental approvals for the transfer of spectrum licenses in each instance.

Wireless Offerings

We
believe that increasing the value of our service offerings to customers will help us to retain our existing customers, attract new customers and increase customer usage, all of which will, in turn drive revenue and operating income growth. In
January 2010, we launched a streamlined group of new voice plans, including postpaid and prepaid plans with unlimited minutes and messaging, which provide our customers with simplified pricing options that we believe they will find attractive. As
part of this launch, we also introduced simplified tiered data packages of varying sizes for our postpaid plans – unlimited usage, required for customers using our 3G smartphones; a 25-megabyte package required for users of our 3G multimedia
phones; and usage on a pay-per-megabyte basis for users of our simple feature phones. Both our 3G multimedia phone and simple feature phone users have the option of upgrading to a higher tier data package.

Wireless Services

Voice services.We offer a variety of postpaid plans for voice services and features with competitive pricing. Approximately 90% of our customers received our voice services on a retail postpaid basis, as of December 31, 2009.
Specifically, we offer: Nationwide Calling Plans for individual customers, which provide a choice, at varying price points, of differently sized bundles of minutes of use or unlimited minutes; NationwideFamily SharePlansand NationwideSmall Business SharePlansdesigned for multiple-line accounts; and Nationwide Business Plans targeted to business accounts with over 100 lines and national accounts with over 1,000 lines.

Friends & Family

Friends & Family

Prepaid offerings. We also offer our Verizon Wireless Prepaid service that enables individuals to obtain wireless voice services without a long-term contract or credit
verification by paying in advance. All of our Verizon Wireless Prepaid plans include Mobile to Mobile Calling. In addition, our Verizon Wireless Prepaid customers can also access certain of our key data services and offerings, such as our Mobile Web
services, Ringtones and Ringback Tones, V CAST andVZ Navigator, for additional fees.

Data services.We believe
that we are in a strong position to take advantage of the growing demand for wireless data services. Our strategy is to continue to expand our wireless data offerings for both consumer and business customers.

We offer an array of data services and applications, such as:



•Text and Picture Messaging Services.With compatible wireless devices, our text and picture messaging service enables our customers to send
and receive text messages, enhanced messages with animations and graphics as well as still pictures, voice, and full-motion video clips with sound. With our premium messaging services, our customers can receive digital content provided by third
parties in various categories, including news,







sports, entertainment, travel and weather. Through our Mobile Instant Messaging service, our customers can send and receive instant messages in real time with their wireless devices via AOL
Instant Messaging, Yahoo! Messenger or Windows Live Messenger communities.



•Mobile Broadband. Our Mobile Broadband service, available in substantially all areas covered by our network, enables our customers to access,
at broadband speeds through laptop computers, applications such as e-mail, enterprise applications, image downloads and full browsing capabilities. The service is available to our customers on a postpaid or prepaid basis at various price points that
include data allowances in terms of megabytes or gigabytes. Beginning December 15, 2009, our postpaid Mobile Broadband and GlobalAccess customers became eligible to receive Verizon Wi-Fi service at no additional charge, enabling them to use ourVZAccessManager to access the Internet at thousands of Wi-Fi hotspot locations in the United States, Canada and Mexico.



•Consumer-Focused Multimedia Offerings.We provide our retail customers access via their phones to a range of music, video, games and other
applications, as well as to the Internet. Through our web-based storefronts, accessible via computer or many of our phones, our customers can browse and purchase our V CAST branded applications for music, video and tones, as well as third party
applications. For example, our V CAST video service, accessible on many of our phones, enables our customers to get unlimited access to daily updated videos from leading content providers of news, sports, and entertainment programming for a monthly
fee that is in addition to their voice calling plan access charge. We also offer V CAST Media Manager, a software program that facilitates the transfer of certain content between our customers’ computers and their phones. Our Mobile Web service
enables our customers to access the Internet on their phones through our customized web portal.



•Business-Focused Offerings.We offer our business customers an extensive variety of services focused on increasing their productivity and
lowering their costs. For example, ourVZAccessservice provides our business customers with solutions for accessing the Internet and their corporate intranets.VZEmailoffers a suite of products that enables wireless e-mail across our
diverse portfolio of wireless devices. In addition, ourWireless Officesuite of services offers our business customers with at least 50 lines of service, through the use of their existing wireless devices, calling features traditionally
associated with landline/PBX phones, such as abbreviated dialing.



•Location-Based Services. We offer several location-based services targeted to consumer and business customers. For example, ourVZ
Navigatorapplication enables customers to obtain audible turn-by-turn directions to their destination, locate points of interest, receive real-time traffic alerts with re-routing instructions, and access other location-related information by
usingVZ Navigator-capable phones. Our Family Locator service, available on certain of our phones, provides ourFamily SharePlancustomers with the ability to locate the wireless phone of otherFamily SharePlancustomers in
their plan by accessing the Internet via a computer or by using a Family Locator-enabled wireless phone. Field Force Manager, targeted to our business customers, is a location-based mobile resource management tool that provides businesses with the
ability to locate, monitor and communicate with their mobile field workers.



•Telematics Services.Telematics generally involves the integration of wireless services into private and commercial vehicles, often
incorporating both a voice and data capability. Telematics services include navigation assistance, roadside and emergency notification services, concierge services and stolen vehicle tracking. We support telematics services for some of the largest
automotive manufacturers, and we are currently the national provider of wireless service for OnStar, a subsidiary of General Motors Company. We do not currently include telematics customers in our customer count.



•Telemetry Services. Telemetry generally refers to services that are characterized by machine-to-machine interactions that do not include a
voice component. With telemetry services, data transmissions are used by customers to monitor stationary equipment, such as residential and commercial security systems, and the remote monitoring of control equipment in a wide variety of industries.

We have also undertaken initiatives that we believe will increase the number and accessibility of data
applications available to our customers. These initiatives include our open development program described above, as well as the following:



•In June 2009 we joined the Joint Innovation Lab (JIL), a joint venture whose other participants are China Mobile Limited, SOFTBANK Corp. and
Vodafone International Holdings B.V. JIL’s initial focus is to develop a single global software platform that will allow developers to create mobile applications that can run on multiple operating systems. These applications, referred to as
“widgets,” can enhance both the functionality of certain wireless devices and the mobile Internet experience. These applications will have the potential to reach the JIL participants’ nearly 1 billion customers worldwide.



•In July 2009, we hosted our first Verizon Developer Community conference to foster the development of new mobile applications. The conference
provided developers with information on our applications platform and programming interfaces, billing and revenue sharing to enable developers to bring applications to market quickly.



•In October 2009, we announced the creation of the 4G Venture Forum, whose members include Verizon Wireless, Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson and several
venture capital funds. The forum will enable 4G-related innovations to get to market faster by providing developers and other participants in the 4G ecosystem with funding and development assistance, technical viability assessments and vital
strategic input from forum members.

International Services

We offer a variety of international wireless services targeted to the needs of our customers ranging from our multinational business accounts to our consumer customers who
occasionally travel outside of the U.S. Through our roaming arrangements with certain wireless service providers outside of the U.S., customers enrolled in our international dialing service can use any of our phones in more than 40 international
destinations that provide CDMA wireless service, with data services available in more than 20 such destinations. Through our Global Phone Service, our customers that use our phones that have GSM or UMTS capabilities, such as the BlackberryTourandStorm2, can access voice service in more than 220 destinations worldwide. With our GlobalEmail service, customers with select global phones can access their e-mail accounts in more than 195 destinations worldwide. In addition, our
GlobalAccess service enables our customers to access the Internet on their laptop computers equipped with our GSM PC cards and on our netbooks equipped with global SIM cards in more than 195 destinations, 85 of which offer data access at 3G speeds.







Wireless Devices

We believe that our position in the U.S. wireless industry has enabled us to become a wireless service provider of choice for wireless device manufacturers and has helped position us as the launch partner
for new and innovative device offers for our customers and branded phones that complement our focus on high-quality service and an optimal user experience.

We offer several categories of phones – 3G smartphones, 3G multimedia phones and simple feature phones. The majority of our phones are EV-DO enabled, and all of them are compliant with the FCC’s
Enhanced 911 requirements. Many of these phones support our V CAST andVZ Navigatorservices. We offer our consumer customers a number of phones that include QWERTY keyboards, a feature traditionally included on devices targeted to business
customers. In addition, we offer phones that enable our customers to access GSM networks when traveling abroad.

3G Smartphones. Our
device line-up includes an array of 3G smartphones, devices that are enabled to utilize our EV-DO (Revision A) higher-speed data service and have high-level operating platforms, such as webOS, Windows Mobile andAndroid. We offer 3G
smartphones from RIM, Palm, Samsung, Motorola and HTC. Several of our 3G smartphones include touchscreens, such as the PalmPre Plus, PalmPixi Plus, SamsungOmnia II, HTCTouch Pro 2and the BlackBerryStorm2.

In addition, in November 2009, we began offering two – 3G smartphones on an exclusive basis in the United States
that operate on Google’sAndroidmobile operating platform – the MotorolaDroidand the HTCDroid Eris. These touchscreen devices include innovative applications developed by Google and us, as well as by third-party
developers, are Wi-Fi capable and can access thousands of Android Market applications.

3G Multimedia Phones. We offer
numerous phones that are EV-DO-enabled, have HTML-browsing capability and can run various applications, such as music, games and video, using BREW (binary runtime environment for wireless) technology, which we refer to as 3G multimedia phones.
Certain of these phones have other enhanced features, such as QWERTY keyboards, included on the LG enV3 and the Samsung Alias2, as well as touchscreens on the LG enV Touch and the Samsung Rogue.

Simple Feature Phones. Our simple feature phones include those that operate via our CDMA-1XRTT service, such as the SamsungIntensity, as well as EV-DO-enabled phones, such as the Motorola Barrage. Depending upon the device, these phones include various features, such as QWERTY keyboards, and can access services such as Mobile Web, V Cast andVZ Navigator.

3G Internet Devices. Our customers can access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their computers via data
cards that we offer, or via EV-DO-enabled phones with connector cables, and on certain OEM laptop computers with embedded EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules. In addition, we sell several netbooks, which are portable wireless computers, smaller than
traditional laptop computers, which can access the Internet via our Mobile Broadband service.

Suppliers and Product Supply Chain

We purchase wireless devices and accessory products from a number of manufacturers, with the substantial majority of our
purchases made from LG Electronics, Samsung, Motorola, RIM, Palm, PCD, Pantech, HTC and Nokia.

A key component of all
wireless phones is the chipset, which contains the “intelligence” of the phone. Most of our phone suppliers rely on Qualcomm for manufacturing and supplying CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets. We do, however, sell phones that include CDMA-1XRTT
chipsets manufactured by VIA Telecom, under license from Qualcomm. In addition, there are a number of other components common to wireless phones provided by various electronic component manufacturers that we do not deal with directly. We depend upon
a number of key suppliers and, if any of them fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we may not be able to provide services or maintain and upgrade our network.

We have developed relationships with New Breed Logistics, Inc., and Communications Test Design, Inc., for our phone and other product warehousing, distribution and direct customer fulfillment. We do not
own a significant product warehousing and distribution infrastructure.

Our primary cell site equipment infrastructure vendors
are Alcatel-Lucent, which provides more than half of our cell site equipment, Motorola and Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (Ericsson), which together currently provide nearly all of our remaining cell site equipment. Until November 2009, Nortel
provided us with the cell site equipment now provided by Ericsson. In January 2009, Nortel and certain of its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States and Canada. In connection with this bankruptcy, in November 2009 the
Nortel business unit that supplies CDMA wireless infrastructure to us was sold to Ericsson. We also rely upon Alcatel-Lucent, Motorola and, as a result of the above-mentioned sale, Ericsson for substantially all of our switching equipment.

Marketing

We focus our marketing strategy on offering solutions that are targeted to satisfy the needs of our various customer market segments, such as young adults, seniors, families and small to large businesses; promoting our brand; leveraging our
extensive distribution network; and cross-marketing with Verizon’s other business units and Vodafone.

Our marketing plan
includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions, which ensures that our marketing message is consistently presented across all of our markets. Our promotion of the
“Verizon Wireless” brand is complemented by Verizon’s other brand marketing activities, reinforcing the awareness of our services in shared markets and capitalizing on the size and breadth of Verizon Communications’ customer
base.







Sales and Distribution Channels

We utilize a mix of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.

Our direct distribution channel includes our company-operated stores, a core component of our distribution strategy. Our experience has been
that customers that we obtain through this direct channel are less likely to cancel their service than those we obtain through indirect channels. As of December 31, 2009, we operated approximately 2,300 company-operated stores and kiosks. We
will continue to evaluate all of our stores to ensure that they are optimally located in accordance with our distribution objectives. As of December 31, 2009, we ceased operating approximately 335 stores located in the Alltel markets that we
are not required to divest. Certain other stores may be transitioned to local agents for their marketing of our products and services.

Our direct channel also includes our business-to-business operations and systems organization, which is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of our local, regional and national business customers, as well as a
telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming calls from customers. In October 2009, we announced the creation of a dedicated organization to more effectively serve the needs of our large multinational corporate customers and our
government accounts. This organization is focused on delivering to these customers integrated, industry-specific solutions to meet their telecommunications needs. We also offer fully-automated, end-to-end web-based sales of wireless phones,
accessories and service in all of our markets.

Our indirect retail channel consists of agents that sell our postpaid and/or
prepaid wireless products and services at their retail locations throughout the U.S. In addition, national retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart, Costco and Target, sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services. We also sell wireless
capacity on a wholesale basis, which involves the sale of wholesale access, minutes and data services to independent companies that resell wireless services to end-users. Our ability to attract new subscribers and our revenue could be adversely
affected if our relationship with any of our national indirect distributors were terminated or if they shifted the mix of their business to favor other wireless service providers.

Customer Service, Retention and Satisfaction

We believe that high quality
customer service is a key differentiator because it increases customer satisfaction and reduces customer churn, the rate at which customers disconnect individual lines of service. Therefore, satisfying and retaining existing customers is critical to
the financial performance of wireless service providers and an essential element of our strategy. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services, in
order to promote long-term relationships and minimize churn. Third-party studies conducted in 2009 show that we placed highest in overall customer satisfaction among the national wireless service providers.

While our customer service representatives are available during our normal business hours, we also have representatives available
24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week to assist with emergency and technical customer issues. In addition, customers can do business with us at any time, without having to speak with a customer service representative, through our enhanced self-service
applications, which include our interactive voice response system, through our website, and via applications accessible from customer handsets.

Under our enhanced Worry Free Guarantee, a national customer retention and loyalty initiative, we have committed to providing our customers with an extensive and advanced network, responsive customer
service with end-to-end resolution, the option to change at any time to any qualifying wireless service plan without paying any additional fees or requiring any contract extension, an early termination fee that decreases after each full month that a
customer remains on their contract, and a handset upgrade credit every two years, provided that the customer signs a new two-year contract for a calling plan with at least a $35 monthly access charge. In addition, our My Verizon Advantage program
offers each customer who registers with our My Verizon website free back-up protection for the customer’s phone contact list, an annual handset upgrade option for qualified customers and periodic notification if the customer exceeds his or her
plan allowance. Another significant retention and loyalty program is the customer lifecycle management program in which we contact customers at key times during the customer relationship about targeted offers and to provide proactive rate plan
analysis.







Wireline

Background

The Wireline segment provides customers with communications products and services that include voice, Internet access, broadband video and
data, next generation IP network services, network access, long distance and other services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the U.S., as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the U.S. and in 150
other countries around the world.

In 2009, we changed the manner in which the Wireline segment reports Operating revenues to
align our financial presentation to the continued evolution of the wireline business. Accordingly, there are four revenue-producing lines of business within the Wireline segment: Mass Markets, Global Enterprise, Global Wholesale and Other. In 2009,
Wireline revenues were $46,080 million, representing approximately 43% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues. Our Wireline segment is not dependent on any single customer.

Access Line Spin-off

On May 13, 2009, we announced plans to spin off
a newly formed subsidiary of Verizon (Spinco) to our stockholders. Spinco will hold defined assets and liabilities of the local exchange business and related landline activities of Verizon in Arizona, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Nevada,
North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, Washington, West Virginia and Wisconsin, and in portions of California bordering Arizona, Nevada and Oregon, including Internet access and long distance services and broadband video provided to
designated customers in those areas. Immediately following the spin-off, Spinco plans to merge with Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier) pursuant to a definitive agreement with Frontier, and Frontier will be the surviving
corporation. The transactions do not involve any assets or liabilities of Verizon Wireless. The merger will result in Frontier acquiring approximately 4 million access lines and certain related businesses from Verizon, which
collectively generated annual revenues of approximately $4 billion for Verizon's Wireline segment.

Depending on the trading
prices of Frontier common stock prior to the closing of the merger, Verizon stockholders will collectively own between approximately 66% and 71% of Frontier’s outstanding equity immediately following the closing of the merger, and Frontier
stockholders will collectively own between approximately 29% and 34% of Frontier’s outstanding equity immediately following the closing of the merger (in each case, before any closing adjustments). The actual number of shares of common
stock to be issued by Frontier in the merger will be calculated based upon several factors, including the average trading price of Frontier common stock during a pre-closing measuring period (subject to a collar) and other closing
adjustments. Verizon will not own any shares of Frontier after the merger.

Both the spin-off and merger are expected to
qualify as tax-free transactions, except to the extent that cash is paid to Verizon stockholders in lieu of fractional shares.

In connection with the spin-off, Verizon expects to receive from Spinco approximately $3.3 billion in value through a combination of a special cash payment to Verizon, a reduction in Verizon’s consolidated indebtedness, and, in certain
circumstances, the issuance to Verizon of debt securities of Spinco. In the merger, Verizon stockholders are expected to receive approximately $5.3 billion of Frontier common stock, assuming the average trading price of Frontier common stock
during the pre-closing measuring period is within the collar and no closing adjustments.

The transaction is subject to the
satisfaction of certain conditions, including receipt of state and federal telecommunications regulatory approvals. If the conditions are satisfied, we expect this transaction to close during the second quarter of 2010.

Operations

Mass Markets

Mass Markets operations provide local exchange (basic service and end-user access), long distance (including regional toll), broadband
services (including high-speed Internet and FiOS Internet) and FiOS TV services to residential and small business subscribers. In partnership with DIRECTV, Verizon also offers satellite television service to enable double- and triple-play offers in
non-FiOS markets. In 2009, Mass Markets revenues were $19,755 million, representing approximately 43% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues.

To differentiate the FiOS platform from its competitors, initiatives are under way to leverage this technology to deliver video applications, “widgets,” and interactivity with television,
including access to social networking sites, and access to Internet video sites.



Global Enterprise







Global Wholesale

Global Wholesale offers switched access and special access services primarily to long distance and other carriers who use our facilities to provide services to their customers. Switched access revenues
are generated from fixed and usage-based charges paid by carriers for access to our local network, interexchange wholesale traffic sold in the United States, as well as internationally destined traffic that originates in the U.S. Special access
revenues are generated from carriers that buy dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks. Global Wholesale services also include local wholesale revenues from unbundled network elements and interconnection revenues from
competitive local exchange carriers and wireless carriers. A portion of Global Wholesale revenues is generated by a few large telecommunication companies, many of whom compete directly with us. In 2009, Global Wholesale revenues were $9,637 million,
representing approximately 21% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues. Major initiatives that are under way, such as Fiber-to-the-cell sites, global data growth, an increased focus on high-yield international voice routes and the development of new
segments, will further differentiate Global Wholesale from its competitors.

As consumer demand for smartphones and bandwidth
intensive applications grow, wireless carriers are looking for network solutions to carry increasing volumes of traffic. Our service allows virtually unlimited capacity and enables wireless carriers to offer next generation applications to their
customers. We have constructed more than 2,300 cell sites in 2009 with fiber Ethernet service across most carriers and we are on track to fully support Verizon Wireless’ LTE launch in 2010.

Global Wholesale will also continue to capitalize on voice traffic growth to high-yield destinations where we have volume (minutes) going to
key destinations around the globe. New opportunities are being driven by machine-to-machine applications, managed services, and digital content which provide more value to our customers and represent the largest growth opportunities. Global
Wholesale’s initiatives are focused on providing value and targeting these growth services.

Other

Other services include such services as local exchange and long distance services from former MCI mass market customers, operator services,
pay phone, card services and supply sales, as well as dial around services including 10-10-987, 10-10-220, 1-800-COLLECT and prepaid cards. In 2009, Other revenues were $1,700 million, representing approximately 4% of Wireline’s aggregate
revenues.

Competition

The wireline telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional, non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current
and potential competitors include cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, Internet service providers and other companies that offer network services and
managed enterprise solutions. Companies with a global presence provide a threat to the Wireline segment. Customers, particularly in the Global Enterprise and, to a lesser extent, Global Wholesale, looking for reach and access around the world, can
look to a handful of telecommunications and integrated service providers that operate globally. These full (or near-full) service providers serve as competitors in our efforts to win large contracts to provide integrated services to global
enterprises. Many of these companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition and which may affect our future revenue growth.

In the Global Enterprise business, the customer’s need to reduce technical complexity coupled with the growth opportunity created by
technology convergence is driving the expansion of the competitive landscape. Major competitors include system integrators, carriers, hardware and software providers.

Some of the biggest companies in IT services are either making acquisitions or forging new alliances to be better positioned for a rebound in technology spending. Most new alliances and acquisitions have
focused on emerging fields such as cloud computing, software delivery, communication applications and other computing tasks via the network rather than on in-house machines. Carriers have also utilized acquisitions to make significant inroads into
enterprise outsourcing markets that have long been the well-defended turf of the major IT outsourcers.

We believe that cable
operators represent a significant threat to our Wireline business. Cable operators have increased the size and digital capacity of their networks so that they can offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled
offerings that include high-speed Internet access, digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships.

Wireless substitution is an ongoing competitive trend, which we expect to continue as wireless companies position their service as a
landline alternative. We also face increasing competition from companies that provide Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services. These services use the Internet or private broadband networks to transmit voice communications. VoIP services are
available from a wide range of companies including cable companies, and national and regional providers. Internet portal providers are also entering our competitive space.

As a result of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale, or access components of our network on an
unbundled basis at a prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues. Our telephone operations generally have been required to sell their services to competitive local exchange carriers at significant discounts from the prices
our telephone operations charge their retail customers. The scope of these obligations going forward and the rates we receive, are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. See “Regulatory and Competitive
Trends” in the 2009 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners.

Global Wholesale competes with traditional carriers for
long-haul, voice and IP services. Additionally, mobile video and data needs are driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this new revenue opportunity.







Carriers continue to strategically invest capital to build their networks further into our
franchise markets. Consolidation continues to create opportunities – it has helped to strengthen the wholesale market by decreasing the number of competitors and contributing to price stabilization. The landscape for wholesale services is also
constantly changing, and is driving new requirements, and the nature of these relationships can quickly move from a retail model to a wholesale model.

We believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in the wireline industry:



•Customer Service: Customers expect industry leading service from their service providers. As technologies and services evolve, the
requirement of the carrier to excel in this area is crucial for customer retention. Providing exceptional service to our customers builds integrity in Verizon across the marketplace. Residential customers experience this through our service
representatives and online support, recently recognized as industry leading by an independent survey organization. Our award-winning Verizon Enterprise Center provides our business customers with ready access to their system and performance
information. Proactive testing of the network helps identify minor issues before they become significant, allowing us to fix them before the customer even notices. We expect that our customer service will be a key differentiator in the
Enterprise business. In a 2009 annual study, J.D. Power and Associates determined that Verizon is the top performer in overall satisfaction in the Large Enterprise segment. In the Wholesale business, service improvement can be achieved through
continued system automation initiatives. Our online tools allow customers to interface with their provisioning and maintenance transactions electronically, improving self-service and further differentiating us from other service providers.



•Network reliability and bandwidth (speed):As both consumers and small business customers look to leverage high speed connections for
entertainment, communications, and productivity, we expect broadband penetration will continue to increase over the next several years. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream.
To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver against these increasing bandwidth requirements. We are continuing to build out our network to be able to meet this future demand.



•Pricing: Cable and telecommunications companies and integrated service providers use pricing to capture market share from incumbents. Pricing
is also significant as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, portal-based and VoIP calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by advertising
revenues.



•Product differentiation: As a result of pricing pressures, providers need to differentiate their products. Customers are shifting from an
access to an applications mindset and are focused on how they can leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, enabled by both customer
demand and technological advancement.

Network

Our business strategy is to be the premier broadband and entertainment service provider in the mass market. Network reliability is also a key component of our business strategy. We
are executing on this strategy by deploying Fiber-to-the-premise (FTTP) access technologies over fiber optic cables. FTTP provides the highest possible bandwidth to the customer premise, based on current technology and allows us the flexibility to
adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. New optical terminals can be added to the FTTP network, providing greater bandwidth and new services without any additional field construction. As we continue to expand our deployment
of the most advanced Fiber Optic Network we are enhancing it with Gigabit Passive Optical Network (GPON) technology. GPON technology will continue to support the services we offer today, while allowing for the introduction of new services through
improved downstream and upstream capacity.

In conjunction with the evolution of our access plant, we are also transitioning
our metro (local) network infrastructure from traditional time division multiplexing (TDM)/SONET (Synchronous Optical Network)/ATM technologies to Ethernet over Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing (DWDM). In 2009 we continued to deploy
Reconfigurable Optic Add Drop Multiplexer (ROADM) nodes in the transport network. As a result, the new optical transport network provides features optimized for video distribution services and high speed data services, while maintaining the level of
network reliability achieved with SONET.

To fully leverage this new network infrastructure and allow for the more efficient
sharing of our network across services, we are upgrading our multiplexing and routing infrastructure to use IP, Ethernet and MPLS (Multi Protocol Label Switching) technologies. In addition, we are migrating from traditional TDM-based voice switching
to VoIP. This migration lowers the cost of current data and voice services and creates a network which can offer future multi-media communications services by adding service platforms without requiring widespread network upgrades. In keeping with
our strategy of leading in network reliability, our service infrastructure utilizes our managed Quality of Service-enabled resilient IP network rather than the public Internet.

We have been focused on growing our Ethernet infrastructure to support the full range of Ethernet private line and E-LAN services locally, domestically and globally. To lower the
access cost and provide significant service flexibility, we are using a converged packet access strategy that replaces the private circuit-based customer access and aggregates traffic from multiple customers onto a shared Ethernet and MPLS network.
We have also focused on the expansion of the private IP network (PIP) to serve all key international markets with managed Quality of Service-aware IP Virtual Private Network (VPN) services. Our Public IP network is now interconnected to PIP through
Security Gateway platforms that allow business customers to extend the reach of their private virtual networks to ‘off-net’ sites, such as employees’ homes, small branch offices and mobile work forces. These enhancements extend our IP
services reach across the globe.

We continue to focus on emerging optical transport technologies and expansion of our network
to lower overall cost. We are integrating Ethernet, SONET and Optics, and Ultra-Long-Haul technologies. In addition, we have deployed a new, next generation undersea cable technology through the Trans-Pacific Express (TPE) connecting the west coast
of the U.S. to China, Korea and Taiwan.







We continue to widen and deepen our global scope and capabilities. We have expanded our
Virtual Private LAN service to Europe, Asia-Pacific, and additional North American locations. We also deployed the industry’s first commercial 100G (gigabits per second) ultra-long-haul optical system for live traffic on our European optical
core network; added a Japan landing to our TPE submarine cable system; and installed 106 private IP edge routers for a total of 753 edge routers in 212 sites in 59 countries.

Wireline Offerings

Mass Markets

Our strategy is to be the customer’s first choice for communications and entertainment services. To achieve this we offer a variety of
services at different price points.

Video Services.We offer FiOS TV and Verizon’s fiber-optic video service and
market a variety of DIRECTV packages that are delivered over satellite systems. FiOS TV provides access to more than 565 all-digital channels and more than 125 high definition channels and now is available to approximately 11.7 million homes
across 14 states: New York, New Jersey, California, Delaware, Texas, Florida, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Indiana, Massachusetts, Virginia, Rhode Island, Oregon and Washington. Innovative features that we believe differentiate FiOS TV from the
competition include:



•Channel Line-up– We designed the channel line-up for ease of use, grouping channels by category.



•High Definition Content– We offer up to 125 channels in high definition with digital sound (Dolby 5.1).



•Video on Demand– We offer monthly access to as many as 18,000 movies and shows via subscription, transactional and free on-demand
programming, including 2,800 in high definition video on demand.



•Interactive Media Guide– Our FiOS TV guide helps customers quickly and easily find content from television listings, video on demand
catalogs and their own personal music and photo files.



•Home Media DVR– Our multi-room digital video recorder, which allows recording in one room and viewing in another, also includes the
Interactive Media Guide. The device also provides customers with the flexibility of moving content seamlessly from the PC/laptop to the wide screen for a richer viewing experience of user-generated content such as videos and photos.



•FiOS TV Widgets– Viewers get one-touch, on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information and increasingly popular
social media applications such as Facebook and Twitter. We are expanding widget capabilities to support online commerce and recently launched a Home Shopping Network widget that enables purchases via remote control; we are in discussion with other
companies to pursue similar revenue-sharing opportunities. The widget platform has evolved to an open-development environment, inviting third parties to capture opportunities for enhanced customer features via the FiOS TV product. Gaming is another
key opportunity that will be enabled through the widgets platform.



•Personalized Settings and Controls– Customers can control the content received on their televisions.

Data Services.We offer high speed Internet and FiOS broadband data products with varying downstream and upstream
processing speeds. In 2009, we saw increased demand for upstream bandwidth to support video and photo sharing in a secure environment. We also enhanced our FiOS offerings by increasing availability of our symmetrical FiOS Internet service with
upload speeds of up to 20Mbps, as well as 50Mbps for download service. Our data packages include technical support, anti-virus and spam protection and e-mail online storage.

Voice Services.We offer packages that include local exchange, regional, long distance, VoIP, wire maintenance and voice messaging services. In 2009, we continued to offer new
calling plans and to bundle landline and wireless services with calling features and unlimited calling between a customer’s home phone and wireless handset, all on a single bill.

Global Enterprise

We are well positioned to take advantage of economic
and technological trends. With a strong global IP network and robust service portfolio, we are able to assist customers with their transition to next generation services. Our portfolio of services consists of core services and strategic services:

Core Services. We have the experience, reliability, and product depth to support voice solutions globally. Core
Services provide a comprehensive product portfolio and a convergence plan for current and future VoIP services. Core Data services include Frame Relay, ATM and Private Line access technologies. Core Services also include customer premises equipment,
installation, maintenance and site services. They support a wide variety of technology partners in both the voice and data markets.

Strategic Services.Our Strategic Service offerings can be grouped into three main categories: IP and data services, including connectivity to the Internet; managed IT and professional services,
including security; and advanced voice services. We offer professional services personnel in more than 30 countries to assist customers in adopting new IT solutions, such as application management, infrastructure services, unified communications,
contact center solutions, and security and business continuity services, as we seek to assist customers in transforming the way they operate today.

We have introduced new offerings for multinational corporate and government customers including IT consulting and managed services to help enterprises transition to cloud computing technologies;
telehealth collaboration services; consulting services aimed at helping track and protect corporate data; a cloud-based application performance monitoring service; and solutions to prevent hacker threats to corporate applications.







Business customers can choose to purchase customized packages that include some or all of
our Strategic Services, which they can manage internally or we can manage for them. These include:



•Private IP– Our fastest growing service around the world, our MPLS – based solution enables customers to securely leverage the
efficiency, performance and value of IP by increasing the speed of network traffic as it travels over various platforms including IP, ATM and Frame Relay.



•Managed Services– Offers companies the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access, and web
applications.



•Enterprise Mobility– Enables customers to remotely access our global IP network and leverage wireless applications.



•Applications Hosting– Offers hosting and managing of corporate software applications and provides content delivery for customers.



•Customer Service Management– Provides tools that improve the customers’ experience and increase call center efficiency and
productivity.



•Security– Provides integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data.

Global Wholesale

Our
strategy is to be a leading provider of global wholesale telecommunications and business services. We offer a comprehensive portfolio of voice, data, value-added business and local telecommunications services to a wide array of customers, including:
inter-exchange carriers, resellers, cable service operators, Internet service providers, network and systems integrators, and content data network providers.

Voice Services.We offer regional access, VoIP services, and long distance services both domestically and internationally. We are a leading provider of international voice services across the
world, serving customers on six continents and in over 150 countries. In 2010, we will focus on increasing international voice traffic on key high-yield routes. In addition, we offer interconnection services for local and wireless service providers
who need to terminate traffic in our networks to reach their end users and subscribers.

Data Services.We offer a
robust portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance wholesale customer networks and to provide connections to their end users and subscribers. Our data services include: private line special access, fast packet, optical,
Ethernet and IP services, each available in multiple options and configurations to support the complex needs of our customers.

Our wireless customers in the U.S. represent the largest growth opportunity in wholesale, as they are significantly building up backhaul connections from their cell sites back to mobile switching centers. At the same time, they are
migrating networks from TDM to Ethernet, which will better scale and service the growth of broadband services driven by smartphones, mobile broadband and mobile video. Global Wholesale offers a Fiber-to–the-Cell program, where we deliver to
customers a wide array of Ethernet services, fiber network transport and support their expansion of 3G networks and roll-out of 4G technology.

In addition, we offer an IP partner port service that allows content owners to connect to our network in a more efficient manner, as they deliver content across the Internet to subscribers, including our
Mass Markets FiOS customers. In 2010, we plan to expand the partner port offer internationally to increase global customer connections into the U.S., furthering our efforts to grow data revenues globally.

Value Added Business Services.Global Wholesale offers value-added business services, leveraging many of the same offers available in
the Enterprise portfolio. Value-added services can enhance the customer’s experience with us by providing a more feature-rich service offering beyond traditional transport services. Several wholesale customers also serve large enterprises
across the globe, and we can deliver value-added business services in a wholesale model to simplify these customers’ corporate telecommunications and IT needs including:



•Managed Services– Offers wholesale customers the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access,
and web applications to Verizon.



•Mobility– Enables wholesale customers to complement their portfolio to triple-play or quad-play capability, by leveraging wireless
devices and services offered through Verizon Wireless, and packaged and resold under their own carrier brand.



•Security– Provides wholesale customers integrated solutions to help their enterprise end users secure their networks and data.

Local Services.We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local
exchange carriers, some of which are offered in accordance with telecommunications regulations. Our lead platform in local services is wholesale advantage, a service which combines basic dial tone and optionally adds other enhancements such as voice
mail, calling features and DSL. In 2010, we expect to increase the focus on selling broadband services in the local market, leveraging our existing high-speed line network investments, while offering services in a wholesale model. In addition, we
offer services such as collocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with mandated regulation.







Recent Developments

“Recent Developments” included in
“Other Factors That May Affect Future Results” on page 35 of the 2009 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.



Regulatory and Competitive Trends

“Regulatory and Competitive Trends” included
in “Other Factors That May Affect Future Results” on pages 36 through 38 of the 2009 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.



Executive Officers

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive
Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our executive officers.



Employees

As of December 31, 2009, Verizon and its
subsidiaries had approximately 222,900 employees. Unions represent approximately 35% of our employees.



Information on Our Internet Website

We make available, free of charge on our website, our
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/investor. Verizon has adopted a code of ethics, as that term is defined in Item 406(b) of
Regulation S-K, which applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. A copy of this code may be found on our website at www.verizon.com/investor. Any amendments to this code, or any waiver of this code for any
executive officer will be posted on that website.







Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

In this annual report on Form 10-K we
have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of
operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection
of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The
following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this annual report, could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:



•the effects of adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;



•the effects of competition in our markets;



•materially adverse changes in labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational
impact, in the markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments;



•the effect of material changes in available technology;



•any disruption of our suppliers’ provisioning of critical products or services;



•significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets;



•the impact of natural or man-made disasters or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;



•technology substitution;



•an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing;



•any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any loss of or inability to renew wireless licenses, and the final results
of federal and state regulatory proceedings and judicial review of those results;



•the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology;



•changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules
or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;



•our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions;



•our ability to successfully integrate Alltel Corporation into Verizon Wireless’s business and achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisition;
and



•the inability to implement our business strategies.







