Item 1. Business



General

Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon, or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries, is one of the world’s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies. With a presence around the world, we offer voice, data and video
services and solutions on our wireless and wireline networks that are designed to meet customers’ demand for mobility, reliable network connectivity, security and control. Formerly known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in
1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We have a highly diverse workforce of approximately 177,300 employees.

Our principal executive offices are located at 1095 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 (telephone number212-395-1000).

We have two reportable segments,
Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business segments and organize by products and services.



WirelessWireless’ communications products
and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business and government customers across the United States.WirelineWireline’s voice, data and video communications products and
enhanced services include broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers
in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and around the world.

The following portions of the 2014 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this report:



•“Overview” on pages 10 through 12; and,



•“Segment Results of Operations” on pages 17 through 23 and in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 68 through 71.



Wireless

Background

Our Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless. Cellco Partnership was formed as a joint venture in April 2000 by the combination of the United States
(U.S.) wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a stock purchase agreement with Vodafone and Vodafone 4 Limited, pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire all
of Vodafone’s indirect 45% interest in Verizon Wireless for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion (the Wireless Transaction). We completed the Wireless Transaction on February 21, 2014 and, as a result, we acquired 100%
ownership of Verizon Wireless. The consideration paid was primarily comprised of cash and Verizon common stock.

Verizon
Wireless is the largest wireless service provider in the United States as measured by retail connections and revenue. At December 31, 2014, Verizon Wireless had 108.2 million retail connections and 2014 revenues of approximately $87.6
billion, representing approximately 69% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues. We provide wireless communication services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the U.S. and have the largest fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term
Evolution (LTE) technology and third-generation (3G) Evolution—Data Optimized (EV-DO) networks of any U.S. wireless service provider.

Our 4G LTE network is available to over 98% of the U.S. population in more than 500 markets covering approximately 309 million people, including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America
partners. Under this program, we are working with wireless carriers in rural areas to collaboratively build and operate a 4G LTE network using each carrier’s network assets and our core 4G LTE equipment and 700 MHz C Block and Advanced Wireless
Services (AWS) spectrum.

We have substantially completed the deployment of our 4G LTE network and are focusing our capital
spending on adding capacity and density to this network.

Wireless Service and Product Offerings

Our wireless services are available to our customers receiving service under the Verizon Wireless brand. In addition, customers can obtain
wireless products and services that operate on our network from resellers that purchase network access from us on a wholesale basis.







Wireless Services

We offer our wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts primarily represent retail customers under contract with Verizon Wireless that are directly served
and managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. A single account may include monthly wireless services for a variety of connected devices. A postpaid connection represents an individual line of service for a wireless device for which a
customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge (access service revenues) in return for a monthly network service allowance, and usage beyond the allowance is billed in arrears (usage service revenues). Approximately 94% of our retail
connections received our wireless services on a postpaid basis as of December 31, 2014. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in
advance.

We offer various postpaid account plans, including our More Everything®plans, single connection plans and plans tailored to the needs of our business customers. Our More Everything plans
feature domestic unlimited voice minutes, unlimited domestic and international text, video and picture messaging, cloud storage and a single data allowance that can be shared among up to 10 devices connected to the Verizon Wireless network.
Customers that choose our Verizon Edge device payment plan option, which allows customers to upgrade their handset after a minimum of thirty days, subject to certain conditions, also receive discounted monthly access fees on More Everything plans.
For an additional monthly access fee, our customers have the option of sharing long distance and roaming minutes among their devices for calls from the United States to, and calls while within, Canada and Mexico. The More Everything plans also
include our Mobile Hotspot service at no additional charge. This service enables a customer to activate a personal Wi-Fi hotspot via their smartphone that can provide Internet access to multiple Wi-Fi enabled devices. We also offer various voice and
shared data plans for small and large businesses. As of December 31, 2014, More Everything accounts represented approximately 61% of our retail postpaid accounts.

We offer our customers a wide variety of wireless services accessible on a broad range of our devices. Our messaging
services enable our customers to send and receive text, picture and video messages. In addition, access to the Internet is available on all of our smartphones and nearly all of our basic phones. We also offer service that enables our customers to
access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on notebook computers and tablets that either have embedded 4G LTE or 3G EV-DO modules or that are used in conjunction with separate devices that enable access to this service, such as USB modems,
JetpacksTMand other dedicated devices that provide a
mobile Wi-Fi connection.

Our customers can access multimedia offerings, mostly provided by third parties, consisting of
applications providing music, video, gaming, news and other content. Our business-focused offerings, which are designed to increase productivity, include solutions that enable customers to access the Internet, their corporate intranets and e-mail
across our diverse portfolio of wireless devices. Our location-based services provide our customers with directions to their destination and enable our business customers to locate, monitor and communicate with their mobile field workers. Our global
data services allow our customers to access data services on our Global Ready Phones from hundreds of international destinations and to access the Internet at such destinations with laptops that are either Global Ready, tethered to a Global Ready
Phone, or are used in conjunction with other Global Ready devices, such as certain USB modems or Jetpacks. In addition, depending upon their wireless device’s operating system, our customers have access to more than one million applications and
services offered by Google Inc. (Google) via Google Play, Apple Inc. (Apple) via iTunes, Microsoft Inc. (Microsoft) via its Windows Phone OS operating system and BlackBerry Limited (BlackBerry) via its BlackBerry App World webstore.

Our customers can make and receive calls on their home phone handsets using our wireless network through our Home Phone Connect service
or Verizon 4G LTE Broadband Router with Voice service. We also offer LTE Internet (Installed), a high-speed Internet service that provides customers with Internet connections in their homes using our 4G LTE network.

In addition, we provide network access and, in some cases, enhanced value added services to support telemetry-type applications, which
are characterized by machine-to-machine (M2M) wireless connections. Our M2M services support devices that are used by a variety of vertical market segments, including health monitoring, education, manufacturing, utilities, distribution and consumer
products. For example, companies purchase network access and, in some cases, enhanced services from us in order to connect with and monitor equipment, such as medical devices used to monitor patients, fleet management devices used to monitor
company-operated vehicles and utility monitoring devices used for smart grid applications. Other companies purchase network access from us to support devices that are included in a service they, in turn, sell to end users. We also support telematics
services for some of the largest automotive manufacturers. We expect that consumer use of M2M wireless connections, such as home monitoring, health monitoring, energy management and utilities management will increase as consumers integrate these
devices into their mobile lifestyle.

Wireless Devices

We offer several categories of wireless devices, including smartphones and basic phones, tablets and other Internet access devices.

Smartphones and Basic Phones. Nearly all of the smartphones we offer are enabled to utilize our 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO high-speed
data services and run on various operating platforms, such as Apple iOS, Google Android, BlackBerry OS, and Windows Phone OS. Most of the basic phones we offer are 3G EV-DO-enabled and have HTML-browsing capability.

Tablets and Other Internet Devices.We offer tablets from multiple manufacturers, all of which can access the Internet via our 4G
LTE network or a Wi-Fi connection. The tablets run primarily on the Apple iOS, Google Android or Microsoft Windows operating systems. In addition, we offer dedicated devices, which we refer to as Jetpacks, that provide a mobile Wi-Fi 4G LTE and/or
3G EV-DO connection and are capable of connecting multiple Wi-Fi enabled devices to the Internet at one time. Our customers can also access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their







computers via data cards, USB modems or through the use of certain laptop computers and netbooks with embedded 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules. During 2014, we continued to
experience strong customer demand for tablets and the percentage of our retail postpaid connection base represented by connections to these devices continued to increase.

We purchase a substantial majority of our wireless devices and accessories from Apple, Motorola Mobility, Samsung, LG Electronics, BlackBerry and HTC.

A key component of all wireless devices is the chipset, which contains the “intelligence” of the device. The LTE chipsets used
in our 4G LTE-enabled devices are manufactured by various companies, each using its own 4G LTE chipset. To support CDMA-1XRTT and EVDO technologies (with and without 4G LTE), most of our wireless device suppliers currently rely on Qualcomm
Incorporated for the manufacture and supply of chipsets. In addition, there are a number of other components common to wireless devices provided by various electronic component manufacturers that we do not deal with directly.

Network

We have the
largest 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO networks of any service provider in the United States, with licensed and operational coverage in all of the 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas. As of January 22, 2015, our 4G LTE network covered approximately
309 million people in the U.S., including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America partners. We currently have 21 committed program participants that have the potential to provide 4G LTE coverage to approximately three million people
and, to date, eighteen participants have commenced 4G LTE operations on such networks.

The foundation of our continued
success is network reliability, which is the hallmark of the Verizon brand. We believe that steady and consistent network and platform investments provide the foundation for innovative products and services which will fuel profitable growth. The
depth and breadth of our network provides our fundamental strength and is the basis for our competitive advantage.

In 2014,
we announced the deployment of AWS spectrum in our 4G LTE network. This additional bandwidth, which we refer to and brand as XLTE, provides additional network capacity and is currently available in more than 400 markets. Nearly all 4G LTE devices
that we currently sell can operate on XLTE.

We strive to provide our customers with the highest network reliability for their
wireless services. We design and deploy our network in an efficient manner that we believe maximizes the number of successful data sessions, including video, and completions of large file downloads and uploads while delivering on our advertised
throughput speeds and the number of calls that are connected on the first attempt and completed without being dropped. We plan to continue to upgrade our network, primarily to increase its capacity and density, by utilizing small cell
technology, in-building solutions and distributed antennae systems in addition to deploying existing AWS spectrum. We are also exploring strategic opportunities to expand our national network coverage through selective acquisitions of wireless
operations and spectrum licenses.

In addition to our own network coverage, we have roaming agreements with a number of
wireless service providers to enable our customers to receive wireless service in nearly all other areas in the United States where wireless service is available. We also offer a variety of international wireless voice and data services to our
customers through roaming arrangements with wireless service providers outside of the United States. Certain of our roaming agreements can be terminated at-will by either party upon several months’ notice; however, we do not believe that the
termination of any of these at-will agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business.

Technology

Our primary network technology platforms are 4G LTE and 3G Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). 4G LTE provides higher data throughput
performance for data services at a lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies.

In 2014, we commercially launched
our mobile Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) service known as Voice over LTE (VoLTE). Advanced Calling 1.0 is a first generation suite of services enabled by VoLTE, which is a technology now being used, in addition to CDMA technology, to provide
voice calling services to our customers.

Our network includes various elements of redundancy designed to enhance the
reliability of our service. To mitigate the impact of power disruptions on our operations, we have battery backup at every switch and every cell site in our network. We also utilize backup generators at a majority of our cell sites and at every
switch location. In addition, we have a fleet of portable backup generators that can be deployed to cell sites, if needed. We further enhance reliability by using a fully redundant backbone Multiprotocol Label Switching network in all critical
locations.

Spectrum

The spectrum licenses we hold can be used for mobile wireless voice and data communications services. We have licenses to provide these wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz band, also known as
cellular spectrum, the 1800-1900 MHz band, also known as Personal Communication Services (PCS) spectrum, portions of the 700 MHz upper C band and AWS spectrum in the 1700 and 2100 MHz bands, in areas that, collectively, cover nearly all of the
population of the United States.







Since we and competing wireless service providers have experienced spectrum shortages in certain
markets and may have spectrum surpluses in others, from time to time we exchanged spectrum licenses with other service providers through secondary market swap transactions. We expect to continue to pursue similar opportunities to trade spectrum
licenses in order to meet certain of our capacity and expansion needs in the future. In other cases, we have entered into intra-market spectrum swaps designed to increase the amount of contiguous spectrum within frequency bands in a specific market.
Contiguous spectrum improves network performance and efficiency. These swaps as well as any spectrum purchases are subject to obtaining governmental approvals for the transfer of spectrum licenses in each instance.

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding spectrum license transactions.

Network Equipment and Build-out

Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson are currently our primary network vendors for our LTE network deployments for macro sites as well as small cells. Our primary CDMA cell site equipment infrastructure vendors
are Alcatel-Lucent, which provides more than half of our CDMA cell site equipment, and Nokia Solutions and Networks (NSN) and Ericsson, which together provide nearly all of our remaining cell site equipment. We also rely on Alcatel-Lucent, NSN and
Ericsson for our switching equipment.

As we continue to build and upgrade our existing network, we must complete a variety of
steps, including securing rights to a large number of sites and obtaining zoning and other governmental approvals for macro sites, small cells, in-building systems and antennas and related radio equipment that comprise distributed antenna systems.
We utilize tower site management firms, such as Crown Castle International Corp. and American Tower Corporation (American Tower), as lessors or managers of a portion of our existing tower sites.

On February 5, 2015, we announced an agreement with American Tower pursuant to which American Tower will have the exclusive rights
to lease and operate over 11,300 of our wireless towers for an upfront payment of $5.0 billion. Under the terms of the leases, American Tower will have exclusive rights to lease and operate the towers over an average term of approximately 28 years.
As part of this transaction, we will also sell 165 towers for $0.1 billion. We will sublease capacity on the towers from American Tower for a minimum of 10 years at current market rates, with options to renew. As the leases expire, American
Tower will have fixed-price purchase options to acquire these towers based on their anticipated fair market values at the end of the lease terms. This transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close during the
first half of 2015.

Marketing and Distribution

Our marketing strategy is focused on offering solutions tailored to the needs of our various customer market groups; promoting our brand; leveraging our extensive distribution network; and jointly
marketing our products and services to large business and government customers with Verizon’s Wireline business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions, a sales and marketing organization that encompasses all of Verizon’s solutions for
medium and large business and government customers globally. Our marketing plan includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions designed to present our corporate message
consistently across all of our markets. We use a combination of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.

Company-operated stores are a core component of our distribution strategy. Our direct channel, which includes our business-to-business
sales operations and systems organization, is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of consumers and local, regional and national business customers. In addition, we have a telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming
calls from customers, and we offer fully-automated, end-to-end web-based sales of wireless devices, accessories and service plans.

In 2013, we opened our first Verizon Destination Store at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota, and in 2014 we opened two additional Destination Stores in Chicago and Houston. These stores focus
on the mobile lifestyle and highlight the many ways consumers can use wireless technology in their daily lives. These stores are part of a broader initiative that includes the redesign of our retail stores nationwide into “Smart Stores,”
which showcase the same mobile lifestyle zones as the Verizon Destination Stores but on a smaller scale. In addition, our online store has also been redesigned to deliver a consistent shopping experience for customers, whether accessing the store
via their desktop or mobile device.







Our indirect channel includes agents that sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products
and services at retail locations throughout the United States, as well as through the Internet. The majority of these agents sell both our postpaid and prepaid products and services, and do so under exclusive selling arrangements with us. We also
utilize high-profile, national retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Target, to sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services. Stores such as Dollar General and various drugstore chains sell our prepaid products and services. We
also have entered into agency agreements with a number of broadband, video and voice service providers through which our products and services are sold on a stand-alone basis or bundled with their services.

Competition

We operate
in a highly competitive industry. We compete against other national wireless service providers, including AT&T, Sprint Corporation and T-Mobile USA, as well as various regional wireless service providers. We also compete for retail activations
with resellers that buy bulk wholesale service from facilities-based wireless service providers for resale, including those that buy from us. Competition has intensified and we expect it to remain intense as a result of continuing increases in
wireless market penetration levels, network investment by our competitors, the development and deployment of new technologies, the introduction of new products and services, new market entrants, the availability of additional spectrum, both licensed
and unlicensed, and regulatory changes. Competition may also increase as smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized wireless service providers.

The wireless industry also faces competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to increase their brand
recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services, in addition to non-traditional offerings in mobile data. For example, Microsoft, Google, Apple and others are offering alternative means for
making wireless voice calls that, in certain cases, can be used in lieu of the wireless provider’s voice service or the provision of alternative means of consuming video content in a nonlinear format.

We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors in our industry:



•Network reliability, capacity and coverage.We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service
is a key differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new wireless service offerings, which in many cases include video content, have led to increased customer usage of wireless
services, which, in turn, puts pressure on network capacity. In order to compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that
our 4G LTE network will help us to keep pace with network capacity requirements and meet customer demand for higher speeds.



•Pricing.Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services
continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering service plans that include unlimited voice minutes and text messages and a specific amount of data access in varying megabyte or gigabyte sizes or, in some cases, unlimited data usage at
competitive prices. Some wireless service providers also allow customers to rollover unused data allowances to the next billing period and are also offering installment plans that decouple service pricing from equipment pricing and blur the
traditional boundary between prepaid and postpaid plans. In 2015, we expect that customers will continue to adopt these installment plans, which also offer discounts on the cost of wireless service. Furthermore, some wireless providers are offering
new customers price plans that undercut pricing under the customer’s service plan with its current wireless provider and provide a credit to reimburse early termination fees paid to their former wireless service provider, subject to certain
limitations, in addition to promotions targeted specifically to customers of Verizon Wireless. We seek to compete in this area by offering our customers services and equipment that they will regard as the best available value for the price, as well
as service plans that meet their wireless service needs.



•Customer service.We believe that high-quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and attracting new customers,
including those of other wireless providers. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services and focusing on their needs in order to promote long-term
relationships and minimize churn. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are also focused on improving in this area. As part of our efforts to promote long-term relationships with our customers, in 2014 we introduced
Verizon Smart Rewards, which is a program that offers a wide variety of rewards to customers in exchange for points they earn in connection with their account-related interactions with Verizon Wireless. The program offers customers discounts and
savings on merchandise from well-known brands, as well as discounts and other offers at local shopping and dining venues.



•Product and service development.As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue
growth will be increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced data products and services. We continue to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative wireless products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application and content providers. We also collaborate with various device manufacturers in the development of distinctive smartphones and other wireless devices that can access the growing array of data applications and content
available over the Internet. We continue to focus on increasing the penetration of smartphones, tablets and other connected devices throughout our customer base.



•Sales and distribution.Key to achieving sales success in the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution
points. We believe that attaining the optimal combination of varying distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our company-operated stores,
outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations, and manufacturers of laptops and netbooks
with embedded 4G LTE and 3G models that can access the Internet on our network in broadband speeds. In addition, we sell network access to both traditional resellers, which resell network services to their end-users, and to various companies to
enable wireless communications for their M2M devices or for their provision of telematics services.







•Capital resources.In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service
providers require significant capital resources. We generate significant cash flow from operations, as do some of our competitors.

Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various factors affecting the wireless industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business
models, changes in customer preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies of competitors.



Wireline

Background

Our Wireline segment provides voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services, including broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services,
security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and
around the world. In 2014, Wireline revenues were $38.4 billion, representing approximately 30% of Verizon’s aggregate revenues.

Wireline Service and Product Offerings

We organize our service and product offerings by the primary customers targeted by these offerings – mass markets, global enterprise and global wholesale.

In 2014, our Wireline segment sold a non-strategic business, which provides communications solutions to a variety of government agencies.
Accordingly, the historical Wireline results for these operations, which were not material to our consolidated financial statements or segment results of operations, have been reclassified to Corporate, eliminations and other to reflect comparable
segment operating results.

On February 5, 2015, we announced that we have entered into a definitive agreement with
Frontier Communications Corporation (Frontier) pursuant to which Verizon will sell its local exchange business and related landline activities in California, Florida, and Texas, including FiOS Internet and Video customers, switched and special
access lines and high-speed Internet service and long distance voice accounts in these three states for approximately $10.5 billion. The transaction, which includes the acquisition by Frontier of the equity interests of Verizon’s incumbent
local exchange carriers (ILECs) in California, Florida and Texas, does not involve any assets or liabilities of Verizon Wireless. The assets and liabilities that will be sold are currently included in Verizon’s continuing operations. As part of
the transaction, Frontier will assume $0.6 billion of indebtedness from Verizon. The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions including, among others, receipt of state and federal telecommunications regulatory
approvals, and we expect this transaction to close during the first half of 2016.

The transaction will result in Frontier
acquiring approximately 1.5 million FiOS Internet subscribers, 1.2 million FiOS Video subscribers and the related ILEC businesses from Verizon. This business generated revenues of approximately $5.4 billion, excluding revenue with
affiliates, for Verizon in 2013, which is the most recent year for which audited stand-alone financial statements are currently available.

In 2012, Verizon acquired HUGHES Telematics, Inc. (HUGHES Telematics). The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new customers. These
offerings include our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications which connect automobiles with content, applications and services. We provide services to new vehicles in the United States, China and Europe.

Mass Markets

Mass Markets operations provide broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS Internet and FiOS Video services), local exchange
(basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice services to residential and small business subscribers. In 2014, Mass Markets revenues were $18.0 billion, representing approximately 47% of Wireline’s
aggregate revenues.

Data services.We offer FiOS broadband and high-speed Internet data products
with varying throughput speeds, including FiOS Quantum, which includes speeds of 50 megabytes per second (Mbps) or more. We believe that as consumers connect more devices and stream more video, they will require increased broadband speeds. With our
FiOS Quantum broadband service and certain other data services, our customers can achieve symmetrical upload and download speeds, which we refer to as SpeedMatchsm, of up to 500 Mbps. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 59% of our FiOS Internet subscribers subscribed to
FiOS Quantum. As more data storage and, in some cases, processing is moved to the cloud, we believe that customers will place an increasing value on upstream performance that matches what they already receive for downloads.

In 2014, we introduced the FiOS Quantum Gateway Wi-Fi router. This router uses dual-band technology, which allows users to perform both
high and low bandwidth activities, and enables a more seamless Internet experience even when using multiple devices.

Video
Services.We offer video service over our fiber-optic network. As of December 31, 2014, FiOS Video was available to approximately 15 million homes across 12 states, as well as the District of Columbia.







•FiOS QuantumTV– In 2014, we introduced FiOS Quantum TV, which provides FiOS TV customers with new features including the
ability to record up to 12 shows at once and control live TV from any room in their home. This new service is now available everywhere that FiOS TV is offered.



•FiOS on Demand– With FiOS on Demand, FiOS customers can watch content anytime, anywhere, on any compatible device. Customers who
subscribe to FiOS Video and Internet service also have the ability to upload their photos, music and videos to their personal FiOS on Demand Library, which gives them access to this content via various data-capable devices. With the FiOS Mobile App,
programming, such as TNT, Nickelodeon, HBO and TBS, can be streamed to a customer’s tablet or other mobile device. In addition, FiOS TV Widgets provide viewers with on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information, social
media applications, such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, gaming and entertainment content, as well as online shopping and other commerce opportunities. The widget platform has evolved in an open-development environment, which provides
opportunities for third parties to develop enhanced customer features for our FiOS Video products.



•Customer Premise Equipment interoperability– We continue to partner with major corporations to offer further interoperability with
various products such as video game consoles, smart televisions and tablets. This technology further expands our initiative to provide customers with the ability to watch content anytime, anywhere, on any data-capable device.

Voice services.We offer voice services that include local exchange, regional and long distance
calling and voice messaging services, as well as VoIP services, which use the Internet or private broadband networks to transmit voice communications.

Global Enterprise

Global Enterprise offers Strategic services and
other core communications services to medium and large business customers, including multinational corporations, as well as state and federal government customers. Global Enterprise jointly markets these services with Verizon’s other business
units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions. In 2014, Global Enterprise revenues were $13.7 billion, representing approximately 36% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues.

Strategic services.Strategic services consist of networking products and solutions, advanced communication services for voice and video, and security, infrastructure, cloud and machine-to-machine
services.

Advanced communication services primarily include:



•IP communications– Our Internet Protocol (IP) communications services simplify network management and drive operational efficiencies by
enabling the convergence of voice and data traffic on the same access connection.



•Infrastructure and cloud services– Our infrastructure and cloud services include Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and managed hosting
services that provide enterprise customers with data center, computing, data storage and network facilities, connectivity, security, architecture and support; data center colocation services that house and protect customers’ critical
applications and systems, including several facilities that offer extensive carrier neutral options; application management services that provide customers with comprehensive monitoring and management of applications; and advanced enterprise-class
cloud services that provide organizations with the ability to virtualize IT resources such as computing, memory and storage, enabling their constituents to produce, store, process, use and share information.



•Machine-to-Machine (M2M) Services– Our M2M services permit customers to connect and monitor equipment, such as medical devices,
fleet management devices and utility monitoring devices. We believe that these services have the ability to reshape the way businesses operate and the way consumers interact with devices around them. Verizon offers platform-based solutions
tailored to specific industries, such as automotive, transportation, fleet management, energy, education, insurance and consumer products, to enable value creation and new commercial business models. Our goal is to be a leader in implementing the
next generation of connected services for vehicles, centered on a core platform of safety, security, fleet management, convenience and other offerings targeting commercial fleet operators, individual consumers and other
customers.



•Security– We provide integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data through the following services:



¡Security professional services– Security consultants that construct security plans tailored to the needs of our customers;



¡Governance, risk and compliance –Allows customers to assess risk levels based on current security controls and develop plans to address
security-related compliance objectives;



¡Identity management –Provides identity-based access management for customer data, application, and systems across multiple IT
environments; and



¡Managed security –We design, implement, and maintain a secure IT infrastructure for our clients and help them prevent, detect and
report security threats.







•Other advanced communications services– Other services primarily include: dedicated Internet access, which provides enterprise
customers with high-bandwidth dedicated access to Verizon’s global network, unified communications and collaboration capabilities, which enable customers to communicate in real time through VoIP and IP conferencing, and emergency communication
services, which allow customers to respond effectively to emergencies while maintaining business continuity.

Networking
products and solutions primarily include:



•Private IP– This service enables customers around the world to communicate over a private, secure network using a variety of access
methods, including Ethernet and Verizon Wireless 4G LTE.



•Ethernet access and optical services– These services allow customers to connect network environments around the world and enable
applications and technologies to work seamlessly and with little disruption. Optical services include technologies that help customers handle bandwidth demands and control their costs.

Core services. Core services include core voice and data services, which consist of a comprehensive portfolio of global solutions
utilizing traditional telecommunications technology, such as conferencing and contact center solutions, and private line and data access networks. Core services also include providing customer premise equipment, and installation, maintenance and
site services. We are continuing to transition customers out of copper-based legacy voice and data services to fiber services including IP and Ethernet.

Global Wholesale

Global Wholesale provides communications services
including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers. In 2014, Global Wholesale revenues were $6.2 billion, representing
approximately 16% of Wireline’s aggregate revenues. A portion of Global Wholesale revenues is generated by a few large telecommunications companies, most of which compete directly with us.

Global Wholesale provides the following services, which it jointly markets with Verizon’s other business units through Verizon
Enterprise Solutions:



•Data services.We offer a robust portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance our wholesale customers’ networks
and provide connections to their end users and subscribers. Our data services include high-speed digital data offerings, such as Ethernet and Synchronous Optical Network, as well as core data circuits, such as DS1s and DS3s. In addition, we receive
special access revenue from data services that is generated from carriers that buy dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks.

New Ethernet connectivity in the United States represents the largest data growth opportunity in wholesale, as customers
anticipate higher capacity demands in the future. These customers are also migrating networks from time division multiplexing to Ethernet, which will better scale and service the growth of broadband services driven by smartphones, mobile broadband
and mobile video. Global Wholesale offers a complete suite of services to support the expansion of 4G and 3G networks.

Data services also include certain value-added business services, which leverage many of the same offerings available in the Global Enterprise portfolio, including:



¡Managed services– Offers wholesale customers the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access,
and web applications to Verizon;



¡Mobility– Enables wholesale customers to enhance their portfolio to triple-play or quad-play capability by leveraging wireless devices
and services offered through Verizon Wireless that can be packaged and resold under their own carrier brand; and



¡Security– Provides wholesale customers integrated solutions to help their enterprise end-users secure their networks and data.



•Voice services. We provide switched access services that allow carriers to complete their end-user calls that originate or terminate within
our territory.



•Local services. We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are offered
to comply with telecommunications regulations. In addition, we offer services such as colocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with applicable regulations.

Other

Other
Wireline services we provide include local exchange and long distance services used by former MCI mass market customers, and operator services. In 2014, Other revenues were $0.5 billion, representing approximately 1% of Wireline’s aggregate
revenues.







Network

To provide services to our customers, we operate an advanced telecommunications network in the United States and around the world.



•FiOS. Our goal is to distinguish FiOS as a premier residential broadband service in the United States. As of December 31, 2014, our FiOS
service passed over 19.8 million premises. We expect bandwidth demands to grow with the continued emergence of new video and data applications and the proliferation of IP devices in the home.

The Passive Optical Network technology upon which the FiOS network is deployed positions Verizon to meet growing
bandwidth requirements. Our network architecture provides the flexibility to adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. For example, new optical terminals can be added to the fiber-to-the-premise network providing greater
bandwidth and new services without any additional field construction. Select field trials have successfully achieved connection speeds of nearly one gigabit per second (Gbps), and when a more advanced next generation technology has been connected to
the fiber-optic network, connection speeds of 10 Gbps have been reached, demonstrating the significant growth capacity built into the FiOS platform.

Additionally, this advanced optical network is also finding increased application opportunities in the business sector, especially as the industry seeks to migrate to Ethernet-based access services.



•Global IP. Verizon owns and operates one of the largest global fiber networks with long haul, metro and submarine cable assets providing
connectivity to customers around the world. Verizon’s global network encompasses over 800,000 route miles of terrestrial and undersea cable, serving the business community by supporting and enabling far reaching international operations.

Global IP traffic has increased substantially over the last five years and is expected to
continue to grow significantly. This global business is also rapidly evolving to an “everything-as-a-service” model in which business customers seek cloud-based, converged enterprise solutions delivered securely via managed and
professional services. With the continued deployment of its packet optical transport strategy, Verizon is creating a single, high-capacity global network platform that combines optical transport with advanced packet switching technology. The result
is a global IP network that can offer powerful solutions to these service demands.

In 2014, a number of key infrastructure
enhancements and technology upgrades were designed and deployed. With FiOS Quantum, we introduced SpeedMatch and pushed our top tier FiOS service offering to 500 Mbps. We believe that our continued focus on advancing our fiber-based networks and
achieving cost efficient solutions through new technology deployments will help Verizon advance its position as a provider of choice to residential and enterprise customers.

Competition

The wireline telecommunications industry is highly
competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional, non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current and potential competitors include cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and
foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, Internet service providers and other companies that offer network services and managed enterprise solutions.

In addition, companies with a global presence increasingly compete with our wireline businesses. A relatively small number of
telecommunications and integrated service providers with global operations serve customers in the global enterprise and, to a lesser extent, the global wholesale markets. We compete with these full or near-full service providers for large contracts
to provide integrated services to global enterprises. Many of these companies have strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying competition that may affect our future revenue
growth.

We believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in the wireline industry:



•Bandwidth (speed) and network reliability:Consumers and small business customers are seeking to leverage high-speed connections for
entertainment, communications and productivity. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream. To succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can meet
these increasing bandwidth requirements. We continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this growing demand. In addition, network reliability and security are increasingly important competitive factors in the global enterprise market.



•Pricing:Cable operators, telecommunications companies and integrated service providers use pricing to capture market share from incumbents.
Pricing is also a significant factor as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, VoIP and portal-based calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by
advertising revenues.



•Customer service:Customers expect industry-leading service from their service providers. As technologies and services evolve, the
ability to excel in this area is important for customer acquisition and retention. In Mass Markets, we compete in this area through our service representatives and online support. In Global Enterprise, we provide our customers with ready access to
their system and performance information, and we conduct proactive testing of our network to identify issues before they affect customers. In the wholesale business, we believe service improvement can be achieved through continued system automation
initiatives.







•Product differentiation:As a result of pricing pressures, providers need to differentiate their products and services. Customers are
shifting their focus from access to applications and are seeking ways to leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, driven by both
customer demand and technological advancement.

In the Mass Markets business, cable operators are
significant competitors. Cable operators have increased the size and capacity of their networks so that they can offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled offerings that include high-speed Internet access,
digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships.

We expect customer migration from traditional voice services to wireless services to continue as a growing number of customers place greater value on mobility and wireless companies position their service
as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition from cable companies and other providers of VoIP services as well as Internet portal providers.

As a result of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale or access components of our network on an unbundled basis at a
prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues. Our telephone operations generally have been required to sell their services to competitive local exchange carriers at significant discounts from the prices our telephone
operations charge their retail customers. The scope of these obligations going forward and the rates we receive are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. (See “Regulatory and Competitive Trends”.)

In the global enterprise market, the customer’s need to reduce technical complexity coupled with the growth opportunity
created by technology convergence is driving the expansion of the competitive landscape. Major competitors include system integrators, carriers and hardware and software providers. Some of the biggest companies in IT services are either making
strategic acquisitions or forging new alliances to be better positioned for a rebound in technology spending. Many new alliances and acquisitions have focused on emerging fields such as cloud computing, software delivery, communication applications
and other computing tasks via the network, rather than on in-house machines. Carriers have also utilized acquisitions to make significant inroads into enterprise outsourcing markets that have long been dominated by the major IT outsourcers.

Global Wholesale competes with traditional carriers for long-haul, voice and IP services. In addition, mobile video and data
needs are driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this new revenue opportunity.



Strategic Initiatives

Technology developments, interconnected markets, shifting consumer needs and converging industry ecosystems are creating innovative
opportunities for Verizon. Our vision is to be a globally-connected solutions company. Our market solutions are designed to deliver compelling products and services, strengthen our competitive advantage in the marketplace and drive a
high-quality experience for our customers. To take advantage of these market trends, we have undertaken several strategic initiatives to further develop innovative products and services and enhance our market agility in the following areas of
focus:



•Interactive Entertainment.We believe the growth in video consumption using mobile devices provides us with an opportunity for revenue
growth. We have made investments in converging technologies and services involving content delivery networks (CDNs), video streaming and related consumer hardware to leverage new content models. Our wireless network enables us to move towards a
unified video strategy that positions us to take advantage of this growth opportunity. For example, we are using Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service technology to develop our LTE Multicast service, which we expect to be available in
2015. This service has the potential to enhance our network efficiency and provide our customers with access to live streaming video content with virtually no buffering, regardless of the number of devices using the service. In order to
continue to meet the changing needs of our customers, we also expect to launch an IP television service in 2015. We also believe it is important to have rights to deliver content over a wireless network that does not require an authentication back
to a subscription agreement. For example, our NFL agreement allows our customers to access certain games live on our 4G LTE network without authenticating back to any subscription.

Customers are increasingly consuming large amounts of broadband data as connected devices and associated online
applications continue to experience significant growth and we expect broadband usage to continue to increase. Our FiOS network positions us in the industry with leading broadband speeds and reliability. Broadband represents a growth opportunity for
us as the use of over-the-top video and user generated content and data accelerates and the number of connected homes and devices continues to grow.



•Internet of Things. The adoption of machine-to-machine technology continues to increase, primarily led by the telematics and
transportation industries, as well as the fields of education and energy management. Our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications connects automobiles with content, services and call centers. Our platform enables
factory and aftermarket-installed automotive safety and security features as well as location-based services and vehicle diagnostics. We provide usage-based data services to new vehicles in the United States, China and in Europe. Through our
In-Drive solution, we have partnered with a major automotive insurance provider to deliver usage-based insurance programs and other connected applications. Our NetworkFleet solution provides commercial fleet managers throughout North America with
real-time access to data that yields operational efficiencies, increased vehicle reliability and improved driver safety. We also provide this service to over 28,500 vehicles operated by Verizon. We are further expanding our telematics portfolio to
add asset tracking capabilities.







Additionally, we are a partner in a pilot project which will put a 120-mile
fully automated highway system in place in Michigan with sensors and cameras communicating with cars to show the possibilities of what can be accomplished with real-time vehicle communications services. We expect this project will show improvements
in areas such as energy consumption and safety.

During the second quarter of 2015, we expect Verizon Vehicle,
a vehicle information and technology service, to be available to consumers. With this subscription-based service, drivers will have diagnostic technology in their vehicles, access to live assistance at the press of a button and will be able to
request roadside assistance with GPS accuracy when needed. Verizon Vehicle also offers the ability to connect with a certified mechanic to diagnose potential problems and offer solutions.



•Digital Media.We have continued to invest in Verizon Digital Media Services, which offers a scalable platform for delivering content
including live broadcast, video on-demand, games, software and websites to our customers on their devices at any time. As the digital platform reshapes the delivery of media and entertainment content, there is an increasing need for a stable,
high-quality video delivery platform. We aim to disrupt the existing media delivery ecosystem with a simple, end-to-end, global platform that enables the best experience of any content. These services are targeted at media and entertainment
companies as well as businesses focused on delivering their digital products and services through the Internet. We also expect, through this platform, to further integrate our FiOS and wireless offerings. The current video and content delivery
ecosystem is highly fragmented, made up of large and small players, ranging from commodity CDNs to video providers focused on value-added services. Competition includes traditional operators such as AT&T and Level 3 Communications, Inc. and
non-traditional operators such as Amazon.com, Inc. and Akamai Technologies, Inc.



•Cloud Services. Capitalizing on market growth in cloud services and on enterprise trends toward outsourcing IT infrastructure and
services, Verizon utilizes an evolutionary cloud platform built for speed and performance, using our own software-based intellectual property and enterprise-grade reliability. Verizon Cloud Compute and Cloud Storage adopt a new approach to how
public clouds are built, enabling customers of all sizes to take advantage of the agility and economic benefit of a generic public cloud along with the reliability and scale of an enterprise-level service. Virtual machines (software-based computers
and servers) can be created and deployed in seconds, and users build and pay for what they need.

Our cloud infrastructure enables real-time analytical capabilities for our M2M customers, providing an end-to-end capability where customers can store, process and analyze large amounts of data on a
real-time basis. Our cloud infrastructure also has the ability to handle multiple instances of an application providing global support and availability of the applications without increased latency. The integration of our cloud infrastructure with
our telematics assets provides our customers with new and innovative service capabilities that are scalable, and which we believe are operationally superior to other bifurcated approaches.



•Fostering Effective Partnerships and Alliances. As a market leader in offering differentiated solutions to our connected customers
across all their devices at home, at work and on the go, Verizon will continue to focus on strategic partnerships as an important pillar of our future strategy. Strategic partnerships are aimed at complementing and augmenting our strengths,
expanding our addressable market, accelerating our pace of innovation, enabling faster delivery of solutions such as media, Internet of Things and cloud to the marketplace, and where possible, lowering our market and execution risk. Strong
partnerships are expected to further our efforts to offer comprehensive solutions for our customers. We look to formulate strategic partnerships and alliances with a global orientation which will benefit us in terms of technology sourcing, content
acquisition, consumer insights, and application ecosystems.

We believe these investments will assist us in
bringing innovative next generation products and services to market and uncovering new sources of revenue, increasing revenue of existing projects and leveraging our strengths across the company.



Patents, Trademarks and Licenses

Verizon owns or has licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other
intellectual property rights necessary to conduct our business. We actively pursue the filing and registration of patents, copyrights, domain names, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property rights within the United States
and abroad. Verizon also actively grants licenses, in exchange for appropriate fees or other consideration and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to other companies that enable such companies to utilize certain Verizon intellectual
property rights and proprietary technology as part of their products and services. Such licenses enable such third-party licensees to take advantage of the results of Verizon’s research and development efforts. While these licenses result in
valuable consideration being paid to Verizon, we do not believe that loss of such consideration, or the expiration of any of our intellectual property rights, would have a material effect on our results of operations.

Verizon periodically receives offers from third parties to purchase or obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual property rights
in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly or against
third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, if successful, could require us to pay damages or royalties, or cease offering the relevant products or services.



Acquisitions and Divestitures

“Acquisitions and Divestitures” on page 34 of the 2014 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is
incorporated by reference into this report.







Regulatory and Competitive Trends

Regulatory and Competitive Landscape

Verizon operates in a regulated and highly competitive market. Current and potential competitors include other voice and data service providers such as other wireless companies, traditional telephone
companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, software and application providers, and other non-traditional companies. Many of these companies have strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of
which contribute to intensifying competition that may affect our future revenue growth. Some of our competitors also are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than Verizon. For many services offered by Verizon, the FCC is our primary regulator.
The FCC has jurisdiction over interstate telecommunications services and other matters under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Communications Act or Act). Other Verizon services are subject to state and local regulation.

FCC Regulation

Broadband

Verizon offers many different broadband and Internet access services. The FCC has adopted a series of orders that impose
lesser regulatory requirements on broadband services than apply to older voice and slower data services. In addition, the FCC concluded that both wireline and wireless broadband Internet access services qualify as largely deregulated information
services. Our broadband Internet access services are subject to various attempts to impose so-called “network neutrality” rules, including the potential application of common carriage regulation under Title II of the Communications Act.
Verizon has been and remains committed to the open Internet which provides consumers with competitive choices and unblocked access to lawful websites and content when, where, and how they want. Our commitment applies to broadband Internet access
services provided over both our wireline and wireless networks and can be found on our website at http://responsibility.verizon.com/broadband-commitment.

Video

Verizon offers a multi-channel video service that is regulated like
traditional cable service. The FCC has a body of rules that apply to cable operators, and these rules also generally apply to Verizon. In addition, the Act generally requires companies to obtain a local cable franchise, and the FCC has adopted rules
that interpret and implement this requirement. In areas where Verizon offers its facilities-based multichannel video services, Verizon has typically been required to obtain a franchise from local authorities.

Wireline Voice

Verizon
offers many different wireline voice services, including traditional telephone service and other services that rely on newer technologies such as VoIP. For regulatory purposes, legacy telephone services are generally considered to be “common
carrier” services. Common carrier services are subject to heightened regulatory oversight with respect to rates, terms and conditions, and other aspects of the services. The FCC has not decided the regulatory classification of VoIP but has said
VoIP service providers must comply with certain rules, such as 911 capabilities and law enforcement assistance requirements.

Wireless
Services

The FCC regulates several aspects of Verizon Wireless’ operations. Generally, the FCC has jurisdiction over
the construction, operation, acquisition, and transfer of wireless communications systems. And all wireless services require use of radio frequency spectrum, the assignment and distribution of which is subject to FCC oversight. Verizon Wireless
anticipates that it will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. It can meet spectrum needs by purchasing licenses or leasing spectrum from others, or by participating in a competitive bidding process for new spectrum from the FCC. Both
processes are subject to certain reviews, approvals, and potential conditions.

Today, Verizon Wireless holds FCC spectrum
licenses that allow it to provide a wide range of mobile and fixed communications services, including both voice and data services. FCC spectrum licenses typically have a term of 10 years, at which time they are subject to renewal. While the FCC has
routinely renewed all of Verizon Wireless’ licenses, challenges could be raised in the future. If a wireless license was revoked or not renewed, Verizon Wireless would not be permitted to provide services on the spectrum covered by that
license. Some of our licenses require us to comply with so-called “open access” FCC regulations, which generally require licensees of particular spectrum to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice, subject to
certain technical limitations. The FCC has also imposed certain specific mandates on wireless carriers including construction and geographic coverage requirements, technical operating standards, provision of enhanced 911 services, roaming
obligations, and requirements for wireless tower and antenna facilities.

Intercarrier Compensation and Network Access

The FCC regulates some of the rates that carriers pay each other for the exchange of voice traffic (particularly traditional wireline
traffic) over different networks and other aspects of interconnection for some voice services. In many instances, Verizon makes payments to other providers, and in turn Verizon receives some payments from other carriers. In 2011, the FCC issued a
broad reform order changing, among other things, the framework for many of the per-minute rates that carriers charge each other for the exchange of voice traffic. The new rules gradually reduce many of these rates to zero. This order is subject to
pending reconsideration petitions and appeals. The FCC also regulates some of the rates and terms and conditions for







certain wireline “special access” and other services and network facilities. Verizon is both a seller and a buyer of these services. For example, on the wireline side Verizon sells
wholesale circuits to other voice and data service providers. On the wireless side, Verizon purchases special access and other services to transport traffic to and from cell towers. In addition, as required by the Act, Verizon unbundles certain
wireline network elements and makes these facilities and services available to other network providers.

Universal Service

The Communications Act charges the FCC with ensuring that certain groups and areas have access to communications services, including rural
and other high-cost areas, low income subscribers, schools and libraries, rural health-care organizations, and deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals. The FCC established different subsidy and discount programs to achieve these goals. To pay for these
programs, the FCC requires contributions from providers such as Verizon based on reported revenues for certain services. Verizon also receives some payments from some of these programs but is a net payer into them.

State Regulation and Local Regulation

Wireline Services

State
public utility commissions regulate Verizon’s telephone operations with respect to certain telecommunications intrastate matters. Verizon operates as an “incumbent local exchange carrier” in 13 states and the District of Columbia.
These incumbent operations are subject to various levels of pricing flexibility and other state oversight and requirements. Verizon also has other wireline operations that are more lightly regulated. In addition, as a video services operator in many
states, Verizon has been required to obtain a cable franchise from local government entities, or in some cases a state-wide franchise, and to comply with certain one-time and ongoing obligations as a result.

Wireless Services

The
Communications Act generally preempts regulation by state and local governments of the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers. The Act does not prohibit states from regulating the other “terms and conditions” of wireless
service. For example, some states attempt to regulate wireless customer billing matters and impose reporting requirements. Several states also have laws or regulations that address safety issues (e.g., use of wireless handsets while driving) and
taxation matters. In addition, wireless tower and antenna facilities are often subject to state and local zoning and land use regulation, and securing approvals for new or modified facilities is often a lengthy and expensive process.



Environmental Matters

Reserves have been established to cover environmental matters relating to discontinued businesses and past
telecommunications activities. These reserves include funds to address contamination at the site of a former Sylvania facility in Hicksville, NY, which had processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. In September 2005, the Army
Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the site into its Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. As a result, the ACE has taken primary responsibility for addressing the contamination at the site. An adjustment to the reserves may be
made after a cost allocation is conducted with respect to the past and future expenses of all of the parties. Adjustments to the environmental reserve may also be made based upon the actual conditions found at other sites requiring remediation.



Executive Officers

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our executive officers.



Employees

As of December 31, 2014, Verizon and its subsidiaries had approximately 177,300 employees. Unions
represent approximately 27% of our employees.



Information on Our Internet Website

We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/about/investors.







Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “hopes” or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report and in
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:



•adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;



•the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate;



•material changes in technology or technology substitution;



•disruption of our key suppliers’ provisioning of products or services;



•changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;



•breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any
resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;



•our high level of indebtedness;



•an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of further financing;



•material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;



•significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets;



•changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation;



•changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or
their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; and



•the inability to implement our business strategies.







