
10-K
1998 FORM 10-K




                                            

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K


                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998        Commission file number 1-9700



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


            Delaware                                   94-3025021
    (State or other jurisdiction         (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
of incorporation or organization)

                   120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94104
                 (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000


               Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class                Name of each exchange on which registered
    -------------------                -----------------------------------------

Common Stock - $.01 par value           New York Stock Exchange
                                        Pacific Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x    No 
                                      ---     ---   
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of March 18,  1999,  the  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates  of the  registrant  was  $29,311,165,334.  For  purposes  of this
information,  the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock owned by  directors  and
executive officers of the registrant,  and certain investment  companies managed
by Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. were deemed to be shares of Common
Stock held by affiliates.

The  number  of  shares of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of March 18,  1999 was
406,353,252* shares.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate certain information contained in the
registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders by reference to portions of that
document.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates certain information contained
in the  registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  to be held May 17, 1999 by reference to portions of that document.

* Reflects the December 1998 three-for-two common stock split.






                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                           Annual Report On Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998



                                










FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS - In addition to historical information,  this Annual
Report  on  Form  10-K   contains   forward-looking   statements   that  reflect
management's  beliefs,  objectives and expectations as of the date hereof. These
statements relate to, among other things,  the Company's  strategy,  information
systems,  the Year 2000 project,  competition,  average  commission  per revenue
trade  and  average  revenue  per share  traded.  Achievement  of the  expressed
beliefs,   objectives  and   expectations   is  subject  to  certain  risks  and
uncertainties  that could cause actual results to differ  materially  from those
beliefs, objectives and expectations.





                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                                     PART I


Item 1.       Business

     (a) General  Development of Business.  The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)
was incorporated in 1986 and engages,  through its  subsidiaries,  in securities
brokerage and related financial  services.  In this report, the "Company" refers
to CSC and its subsidiaries.  CSC's principal subsidiary,  Charles Schwab & Co.,
Inc. (Schwab), is a securities  broker-dealer.  Schwab was incorporated in 1971,
and entered the discount  brokerage  business in 1974. Mayer & Schweitzer,  Inc.
(M&S),  a  subsidiary  acquired in 1991,  is a market  maker in Nasdaq and other
securities that provides trade execution  services  primarily to  broker-dealers
and institutional customers.
     Other  subsidiaries  of CSC include Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,
Inc.  (CSIM),  The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC) and Charles Schwab Europe
(CSE).  CSIM,  incorporated in 1989, acts as the investment advisor for Schwab's
proprietary  mutual funds. The Company refers to certain funds for which CSIM is
the investment advisor as the SchwabFunds(R). CSTC, incorporated in 1992, serves
as trustee for employee benefit plans,  primarily 401(k) plans. CSE, acquired in
1995 to expand the Company's  international  operations,  is a retail securities
brokerage  firm located in the United  Kingdom.  In December  1998,  the Company
entered into agreements to purchase  Canadian-based  Priority Brokerage Inc. and
Porthmeor  Securities Inc. The acquisitions were completed in early 1999 and the
two companies were combined to create  Charles Schwab Canada,  Co., a subsidiary
of CSC.  The  cost of  these  Canadian  acquisitions  was  not  material  to the
Company's financial position.
     New  developments  in  the  Company's  business  during  1998  include  the
integration of its online and  traditional  brokerage  services and reduction of
the  price of online  trades  for most of its  customers.  This  resulted  in an
increase  in the  proportion  of trades  placed  through  the  Company's  online
channels and a decline in its average commission per revenue trade.  However, an
increase in trading  activity  more than offset the effect of the lower  average
commission  per revenue  trade.  In 1998,  the Company  continued  to expand its
products and services. During 1998, Schwab announced alliances with Intuit, Inc.
and Excite,  Inc. to provide investors with investment  education,  research and
analysis tools. Additionally, Schwab began to offer equity research reports from
Credit Suisse First Boston  Corporation (CSFB) and Hambrecht & Quist L.L.C., and
expanded  its  offerings  to certain  customers  to include  debt  underwritings
lead-managed by CSFB.
     The Company is also enhancing the ways it helps investors develop, evaluate
and access their investment  choices. In 1998, Schwab introduced a number of new
Internet-based  investment services,  including:  The Analyst Center(TM),  which
connects customers to proprietary and third-party investment research,  guidance
and decision-making  tools; the Positions  Monitor(TM),  which tracks customers'
mutual  fund and  equity  holdings'  historical  performance;  the  Mutual  Fund
Performance  Profile(TM),  which allows  customers to analyze the performance of
their entire mutual fund  portfolio;  and the Stock  Screener(TM),  which allows
customers to search over 9,000 equities on the Web.  Schwab also  introduced two
new  services  to provide  investors  with  greater  access and  flexibility  in
managing their finances: Schwab MoneyLink(R), which allows customers to transfer
funds  electronically  between Schwab and other financial  institutions  via the
Internet,  automated  telephone  system or Schwab  representatives;  and  Schwab
BillPay(TM),  which allows  customers  to use the Internet to initiate  payments
electronically. In addition, Schwab introduced a Web site that enables investors
to review their accounts and trade securities in Chinese, and CSE launched a Web
site in the United  Kingdom  to offer  online  trading  in stocks  listed on the
London Stock Exchange.
     During 1998,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  declared a  three-for-two
common stock split,  distributed  December  1998,  effected in the form of a 50%
stock dividend. Share and per share information throughout this report have been
restated. The Board increased the quarterly cash dividend 5% to $.0280 per share
in 1998.

     (b) Financial  Information About Segments.  The Company provides  financial
services to  individuals,  institutional  customers and  broker-dealers  through
three  segments  --  Individual  Investor,  Institutional  Investor  and Capital
Markets.  The Individual  Investor segment  includes the Company's  domestic and
international  retail  operations.  The Institutional  Investor segment provides
custodial,  trading and support services to independent investment managers, and
serves company 401(k) plan sponsors and third-party administrators.  The Capital
Markets segment provides trade execution services in exchange-listed, Nasdaq and
other securities  primarily to broker-dealers and institutional  customers.  The
Company's  mutual  fund  services  are  considered  a product and not a segment.
Mutual fund  service  fees are  included  in both the  Individual  Investor  and
Institutional  Investor  segments.  For  financial  information  by segment  and
geographic  area,  and for revenues by major  customer for the three years ended
December  31,  1998,  see  note  "14.  Segment  Information"  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.

     (c) Narrative Description of Business. The Company's strategy is to attract
and retain customer assets by focusing on a number of areas within the financial
services  industry -- retail  brokerage,  mutual  funds,  support  services  for
independent  investment  managers,  401(k) defined contribution plans and equity
securities market-making.  To pursue its strategy and its objective of long-term
profitable  growth,  the Company  plans to continue to leverage its  competitive
advantages.  These  advantages  include a nationally  recognized  brand, a broad
range of products and services,  multi-channel  delivery  systems and an ongoing
investment in technology.
     The Company's primary focus is serving retail investors in the U.S., either
directly or through independent  investment managers, who want access to a broad
selection of products and services,  as well as investment news and information,
tailored to meet their financial needs. The Company,  through Schwab, serves 5.6
million active customer  accounts(a).  Customer assets in these accounts totaled
$491.1 billion at December 31, 1998.
     The table below shows the Company's revenues on a comparative basis for the
three years ended December 31, 1998.


Sources of Revenues
(Dollar amounts in thousands)


This  table  should  be read  in  connection  with  the  Company's  consolidated
financial   statements  and  notes  in  the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.  Certain prior years' revenues and expenses have been  reclassified
to conform to the 1998 presentation.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Effective in 1998,  active accounts are defined as accounts with balances or
    activity within the preceding  eight  months  instead  of  twelve  months as
    previously defined. This change  in definition had  the effect of decreasing
    the number of active accounts in 1998 by approximately 200,000.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       Advertising and Marketing Programs

     The Company's nationwide advertising and marketing programs are designed to
strengthen the Schwab brand,  as well as distinguish  its products and services.
The Company's  advertising  and market  development  expense was $155 million in
1998, compared to $130 million in 1997 and $84 million in 1996. Expenditures for
these programs helped Schwab attract $80.8 billion in net new customer assets in
1998,  compared to $68.9 billion in 1997 and $54.2 billion in 1996. New accounts
opened totaled  1,380,000 in 1998,  compared to 1,164,000 in 1997 and 985,000 in
1996. Customer assets from new accounts represented approximately 50% of net new
customer assets in each of the three years ended December 31, 1998.
     The  Company  primarily  uses a  combination  of  network,  cable and local
television,   national  and  local  radio,   print  media,  and  athletic  event
sponsorship in its advertising to investors.  Schwab also engages extensively in
targeted direct mail advertising through monthly statement "inserts" and special
mailings.
     In its  advertising,  as  well  as in  promotional  events  such  as  press
appearances,  Schwab has  promoted the name and  likeness of its  Chairman,  Mr.
Schwab.  The Company has an agreement  with Mr.  Schwab by which he,  subject to
certain  limitations,  has assigned to the Company and Schwab all service  mark,
trademark,  and  trade  name  rights in his name (and  variations  thereon)  and
likeness.


                              Products and Services

     The  Company  offers  a  broad  range  of  products  and  services  to meet
customers'  varying   investment  and  financial  needs,   including  access  to
investment news and information.

     Services for Retail  Investors.  Retail  investors,  through the Individual
Investor segment or indirectly through the Institutional  Investor segment, have
access to the accounts, financing and mutual funds described below.

     Accounts  and  Features.  The  Company  offers  the  purchase  and  sale of
securities which include  exchange-listed,  Nasdaq and other equity  securities,
options,  mutual funds,  unit investment  trusts,  variable  annuities and fixed
income   investments,    including   U.S.    Treasuries,    zero-coupon   bonds,
exchange-listed   and   over-the-counter   corporate  bonds,   municipal  bonds,
Government National Mortgage Association securities and certificates of deposit.
The Company also offers  certain of its customers  initial and secondary  public
stock  offerings,  debt  underwritings,  and access to futures  and  commodities
trading.  In addition,  customers have access to equity research reports through
the Company's Web site.  Customers approved for margin transactions may borrow a
portion of the price of certain securities purchased through Schwab, or may sell
securities short.  Customers must have specific approval to trade options; as of
December  31,  1998,  273,000  accounts had such  approval.  To write  uncovered
options,  customers  must go through an  additional  approval  process  and must
maintain a significantly higher level of equity in their brokerage accounts.
     Because  Schwab does not pay interest on cash  balances in basic  brokerage
accounts,  it provides  customers  with an option to have cash balances in their
accounts  automatically  swept,  on a weekly  basis,  into  certain  taxable  or
state-specific municipal tax-exempt SchwabFunds(R) money market funds.
     A customer may receive additional  services by qualifying for and opening a
Schwab One(R) brokerage account. A customer may access available funds in his or
her Schwab One account  either with a personal check or a VISA(R) debit card, in
addition to the Schwab MoneyLink(R) and Schwab BillPay(TM) services offered with
all  brokerage  accounts.  When a Schwab One  customer  is  approved  for margin
trading, the checks and debit card also provide access to margin cash available.
For cash  balances  awaiting  investment,  Schwab  pays  interest  to Schwab One
customers.  Alternatively,  qualifying Schwab One customers  seeking  tax-exempt
income may elect to have cash balances swept daily into state-specific municipal
tax-exempt SchwabFunds money market funds.
     Schwab acts as  custodian,  as well as broker,  for  Individual  Retirement
Accounts (IRAs). In Schwab IRAs, cash balances are swept daily into one of three
SchwabFunds  money market funds.  During 1998, active IRAs increased over 30% to
2,100,000  accounts and customer assets in all IRAs increased over 30% to $116.4
billion. Schwab also acts as custodian and broker for Keogh accounts.

     Customer  Financing.  Customers'  securities  transactions are conducted on
either a cash or margin  basis.  Generally,  a customer  buying  securities in a
cash-only  brokerage  account is required to make  payment by  settlement  date,
usually three business days after the trade is executed.  However, for purchases
of certain types of securities,  such as certain mutual fund shares,  a customer
must have a cash or money market fund  balance in his or her account  sufficient
to pay for the trade prior to execution.  When selling securities, a customer is
required to deliver the securities,  and is entitled to receive the proceeds, on
settlement  date. In an account  authorized for margin trading,  Schwab may lend
its customer a portion of the market value of certain securities up to the limit
imposed by the  Federal  Reserve  Board,  which for most  equity  securities  is
initially 50%. Such loans are collateralized by the securities in the customer's
account.  Short sales of securities  represent sales of borrowed  securities and
create an obligation to purchase the  securities at a later date.  Customers may
sell  securities  short  in a margin  account  subject  to  minimum  equity  and
applicable  margin  requirements  and the  availability of such securities to be
borrowed and delivered.
     Interest  on margin  loans to  customers  provides an  important  source of
revenue to Schwab.  During 1998, Schwab's  outstanding margin loans to customers
averaged $8.8 billion.
     In  permitting  a customer to engage in  transactions,  Schwab faces credit
risk if the  customer  fails  to meet  his or her  obligations  in the  event of
adverse  changes in the market value of the  securities  positions in his or her
account. Under applicable rules and regulations for margin transactions, Schwab,
in the  event of such an  adverse  change,  requires  the  customer  to  deposit
additional  securities or cash, so that the amount of the customer's  obligation
is not greater than  specified  percentages of the cash and market values of the
securities in the account. As a matter of policy,  Schwab generally requires its
customers to maintain higher  percentages of collateral  values than the minimum
percentages required under these regulations.
     Schwab may use cash  balances in customer  accounts to extend margin credit
to other  customers.  Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Rule  15c3-3  under the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  the portion of such cash balances not used to
extend margin credit  (increased or decreased by certain other  customer-related
balances) must be held in segregated investment accounts.  The balances in these
segregated  investment  accounts must be invested in qualified  interest-bearing
securities. To the extent customer cash balances are available for use by Schwab
at interest  costs  lower than  Schwab's  costs of  borrowing  from  alternative
sources,  Schwab's cost of funds is reduced and its net income is enhanced. Such
interest savings  contribute  substantially to Schwab's  profitability and, if a
significant  reduction  of  customer  cash  balances  were  to  occur,  Schwab's
borrowings from other sources may have to increase and such profitability  would
decline.  To the extent Schwab's  customers elect to have cash balances in their
brokerage  accounts swept into certain  SchwabFunds(R)  money market funds,  the
cash balances  available to Schwab for investments or for financing margin loans
are reduced.  However,  Schwab receives mutual fund service fees from such funds
based upon average daily invested balances.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition -- Risk  Management" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" below.

     Mutual Funds.  Schwab's Mutual Fund Marketplace(R)  provides customers with
the  ability  to invest in over  1,600  third-party  mutual  funds from 261 fund
families. Within the Mutual Fund Marketplace,  Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource(R)
service  enables  customers to trade 1,024  mutual funds from 179 fund  families
without incurring transaction fees.
     Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource  service allows investors to access multiple
mutual fund companies,  avoid brokerage transaction fees, and achieve investment
diversity  among fund  families.  In  addition,  investors'  record  keeping and
investment  monitoring are simplified through one consolidated  statement.  Fees
received  by  Schwab  for  providing  services,  including  record  keeping  and
shareholder services,  from the Mutual Fund OneSource program are based upon the
daily balances of customer  assets invested in the  participating  funds through
Schwab and are paid by the funds and/or fund sponsors.  Customer  assets held by
Schwab  that have been  purchased  through  the Mutual  Fund  OneSource  service
totaled $69.9 billion at the end of 1998.
     Customer assets invested in Schwab's Mutual Fund Marketplace, excluding the
Mutual Fund OneSource service,  totaled $59.2 billion at the end of 1998. Schwab
charges a transaction  fee on trades placed in the funds  included in the Mutual
Fund Marketplace  (except on trades through the Mutual Fund OneSource  service).
These fees are  recorded  as  commission  revenues.  Commissions  from  customer
transactions  in  mutual  fund  shares  comprised   approximately  7%  of  total
commission revenues during the last three years.
     In  addition to the  third-party  funds  available  through the Mutual Fund
Marketplace,  Schwab offers a family of  proprietary  funds,  referred to as the
SchwabFunds.  SchwabFunds  include money market funds,  equity index funds, bond
funds,  asset allocation  funds, and funds that primarily invest in stock,  bond
and money  market  funds.  Qualifying  Schwab  customers  may elect to have cash
balances  in  their  brokerage  accounts   automatically   invested  in  certain
SchwabFunds money market funds. Customer assets invested in the SchwabFunds were
$81.5  billion  at the end of  1998.  Fees  received  by the  Company  from  the
SchwabFunds,  for  providing  transfer  agent  services,  shareholder  services,
administration and investment  management,  are based upon the daily balances of
customer assets invested in these funds.

     Services  for  Independent   Investment  Managers.   The  Company  provides
custodial,  trading and  support  services to  independent  investment  managers
through the Institutional  Investor segment. To attract the business of accounts
managed by these managers,  Schwab has a dedicated  business unit which includes
experienced   registered   representatives   assigned  to  individual  managers.
Independent  investment  managers  participating  in this  program  who  custody
customer  accounts at Schwab may use  SchwabLink(R)  and the SchwabLink  Web(TM)
site.   SchwabLink  is  a  computer-based   information  network  which  enables
investment  managers  to access  information  about  their  customers'  accounts
directly from Schwab's  computer  systems and to enter their  customers'  trades
online. The SchwabLink Web site enables investment  managers to use the Internet
to communicate  directly with Schwab service teams,  as well as receive news and
information.  In 1998,  Schwab  introduced the Managed  Account  Connection(TM),
which enables  investment  managers to provide  their clients with  personalized
equity portfolio management by a variety of institutional asset managers. During
1998,  Schwab customer assets held in accounts  managed by  approximately  5,400
active independent  investment  managers  increased $40.6 billion,  or 38%, to a
total of $146.4 billion. Independent investment managers generated approximately
12% of total commission revenues during the last three years.

     Retirement  Plan Services.  The Company  provides 401(k) record keeping and
other  retirement  plan services  through the  Institutional  Investor  segment.
Schwab serves company 401(k) plans directly  through a dedicated sales force, as
well as indirectly  through  alliances  with  national and regional  third-party
administrators.   In  the  direct  channel,   SchwabPlan(R)   is  the  Company's
comprehensive 401(k) retirement plan, which offers plan sponsors a wide array of
investment options,  participant education and servicing,  trustee services, and
participant-level  record keeping.  During 1998, Schwab continued to develop its
retirement plan services business,  with customer assets in corporate retirement
plans growing $6.4 billion, or 47%, to $20.1 billion.

     Market-Making  Activities.  Market-making  activities  in  exchange-listed,
Nasdaq and other  securities are conducted  through the Capital Markets segment.
M&S provides trade execution  services in Nasdaq and other securities  primarily
to broker-dealers,  including Schwab, and institutional  customers.  As a market
maker in Nasdaq and other securities,  M&S generally executes customer trades as
principal.  While  substantially  all Nasdaq security  trades  originated by the
customers of Schwab are  directed to M&S,  the  majority of M&S' trading  volume
comes from parties other than Schwab.
     Schwab has  specialist  operations  on the Pacific  Exchange and the Boston
Stock Exchange to make markets in  exchange-listed  securities.  The majority of
trades originated by the customers of Schwab in  exchange-listed  securities for
which Schwab makes a market are  directed to these  operations.  At December 31,
1998,  Schwab  had  eleven   specialists  on  the  Pacific  Exchange  and  three
specialists on the Boston Stock Exchange that  collectively  made markets in 800
and 100 securities, respectively.
     In the normal course of their market making in exchange-listed,  Nasdaq and
other securities, Schwab and M&S maintain inventories in such securities on both
a long and short basis.  While long inventory  positions  represent Schwab's and
M&S' ownership of securities, short inventory positions represent obligations of
Schwab and M&S to deliver specified  securities at a contracted price, which may
differ  from  market  prices  prevailing  at  the  time  of  completion  of  the
transaction.  Accordingly, long or short inventory positions may result in gains
or losses as market values of such securities fluctuate.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition -- Risk  Management" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" below.


                         Multi-Channel Delivery Systems

     The Company's  multi-channel delivery systems allow customers to choose how
they prefer to do business  with the Company.  In addition to its branch  office
network, the Company maintains four regional customer telephone service centers,
two online customer  support centers as well as automated  telephonic and online
channels, primarily serving retail investors through the Individual Investor and
Institutional Investor segments.

     Branch Office Network.  At December 31, 1998,  Schwab operated 291 domestic
branch offices in 47 states,  as well as branches in the  Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, the United Kingdom and the U.S. Virgin Islands.  In addition,  the Company
has offices in Hong Kong and the Cayman  Islands.  The  Company's  branch office
network  plays a key role in building its  business.  With the customer  service
support of regional customer telephone service centers and automated  telephonic
and online  channels,  branch  personnel are focusing a  significant  portion of
their time on business  development.  Customers  can use branch  offices to open
accounts, deliver and receive checks and securities,  obtain market information,
place orders,  and obtain related customer services in person, yet most of these
activities  are  conducted by telephone  and mail.  Branch  offices also provide
investors with access to the Internet.
     The Company is enhancing  the ways in which it may help  investors by using
the branch office  network to assist  investors in developing  asset  allocation
strategies and evaluating their investment choices.  Branch representatives also
refer  investors  who  desire  additional  guidance  to  independent  investment
managers through the Schwab AdvisorSource(TM) service.

     Regional  Customer  Telephone  Service  Centers.   Schwab's  four  regional
customer telephone service centers, located in Indianapolis, Denver, Phoenix and
Orlando,  handle  customer  trading and service calls  twenty-four  hours-a-day,
seven  days-a-week.  Customer orders placed during nonmarket hours are routed to
appropriate  markets the  following  business  day.  The capacity of the service
centers  allows the branch office  network to be  maintained  at lower  staffing
levels and to focus on business development.
     The Company's  customer  service approach is to use teams led by registered
representatives  in the service  centers,  who work closely  with branch  office
network  personnel.   Additionally,  certain  teams  at  these  centers  provide
specialized   services  to  active  and  affluent  investors.   Each  registered
representative  has immediate access to the customer account and  market-related
information  necessary  to  respond to  customer  inquiries.  For most  customer
orders,  registered   representatives  can  enter  the  order  and  confirm  the
transaction  immediately.  As a result  of this  approach,  the  departure  of a
registered  representative  generally does not result in a loss of customers for
the Company.

     Automated  Telephonic  and Online  Channels.  Customers  are able to obtain
financial  information  and execute  trades on an  automated  basis  through the
Company's automated telephonic and online channels.  These channels are designed
to provide  added  convenience  for  customers  and minimize  Schwab's  costs of
responding to and processing routine customer transactions.  To assist customers
in using online  channels,  the Company  maintains two online  customer  support
centers that operate both during and after normal market hours.
     Automated telephonic channels include  TeleBroker(R) -- Schwab's touch-tone
telephone  quote and trading  service,  and  VoiceBroker(TM)  -- Schwab's  voice
recognition quote and trading service.  Schwab's automated  telephonic  channels
handled  over 70% of total  customer  calls  received in 1998.  Online  channels
include the Charles Schwab Web Site(TM) -- an information and trading service on
the  Internet  for  individual   investors,   and  PC-based   services  such  as
SchwabLink(R) for independent investment managers. The Company's online channels
handled 54% of total trades in 1998.


                               Information Systems

     Schwab's  operations  rely  heavily  on  its  information   processing  and
communications systems.  Schwab's system for processing a securities transaction
is highly automated.  Registered  representatives  equipped with online computer
terminals can access customer account information,  obtain securities prices and
related information, and enter orders online.
     To  support  its  multi-channel   delivery   systems,   as  well  as  other
applications such as clearing functions, account administration,  record keeping
and  direct  customer  access to  investment  information,  Schwab  maintains  a
sophisticated computer network connecting all of the branch offices and regional
customer  telephone service centers.  Schwab's  computers are also linked to the
major  registered  U.S.  securities  exchanges,  M&S,  the  National  Securities
Clearing Corporation and The Depository Trust Company.
     Failure of Schwab's information  processing or communications systems for a
significant  period of time could  limit  Schwab's  ability to process its large
volume of  transactions  accurately  and rapidly.  This could cause Schwab to be
unable to satisfy its obligations to customers and other  securities  firms, and
could result in regulatory violations.
     External events,  such as an earthquake or power failure,  loss of external
information  feeds  such as  security  price  information,  as well as  internal
malfunctions such as those that could occur during the  implementation of system
modifications, could render part or all of such systems inoperative.
     To enhance the  reliability  of the system and  integrity  of data,  Schwab
maintains backup and recovery  functions.  These include logging of all critical
files  intraday,  duplication  and storage of all  critical  data outside of its
central computer site every twenty-four hours, and maintenance of facilities for
backup and  communications.  They also  include  the  maintenance  and  periodic
testing of a disaster recovery plan that management believes would permit Schwab
to recommence essential computer operations if its central computer site were to
become  inaccessible.  To  reduce  the  exposure  to system  failures  caused by
external factors, including earthquakes,  the Company's two primary data centers
are located in  Phoenix.  In 1998,  the Company  built the second data center in
Phoenix  intended,  in  part,  to  further  improve  the  recovery  of  business
processing in the event of an emergency.

     Year 2000. Many existing  computer programs use only two digits to identify
a specific year and therefore may not accurately  recognize the upcoming  change
in the century.  If not  corrected,  many  computer  applications  could fail or
create erroneous results by or at the year 2000. Due to the Company's dependence
on  computer  technology  to operate its  business,  and the  dependence  of the
financial  services  industry on computer  technology,  the nature and impact of
Year 2000 processing  failures on the Company's  business,  financial  position,
results of operations or cash flows could be material.  The Company is currently
modifying  its  computer  systems in order to enable its systems to process data
and  transactions  incorporating  year 2000  dates  without  material  errors or
interruptions.  Because systems critical to the Company's functioning other than
its computer  systems may be affected by the century change,  the Company's Year
2000  compliance  efforts also encompass  facilities and equipment which rely on
date-dependent  technology,  such as building  equipment that contains  embedded
technology. For a discussion on the Company's state of readiness,  project costs
and  risks,   and  contingency   plans  regarding  the  Year  2000  issue,   see
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition -- Year 2000" in the  Company's  1998 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


                        Clearing and Account Maintenance

     Schwab  performs  clearing  services  for all  securities  transactions  in
customer  accounts.  Schwab  clears the vast  majority of customer  transactions
through the facilities of the National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation or the
Options Clearing  Corporation.  Certain other transactions,  such as mutual fund
transactions and transactions in securities not eligible for settlement  through
a clearing  corporation,  are settled  directly  with the mutual  funds or other
financial institutions. Schwab is obligated to settle transactions with clearing
corporations,  mutual funds and other  financial  institutions  even if Schwab's
customer  fails to meet his or her  obligations  to  Schwab.  In  addition,  for
transactions that do not settle through a clearing corporation, Schwab takes the
risk of the other party's failure to settle the trade.  See note "13.  Financial
Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet and Credit Risk" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which
are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

 
                                    Employees

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary
employees,  and  persons  employed  on a  contract  basis that  represented  the
equivalent of 13,300 full-time employees.


                                 Risk Management

     The  Company's  business and  activities  expose it to  different  types of
risks.  Proper  identification,  assessment  and  management  of these risks are
essential  to  the  success  and  financial  soundness  of  the  Company.  For a
discussion  on the  Company's  principal  risks  and  some of the  policies  and
procedures for risk identification, assessment and mitigation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition -- Risk
Management"  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this  report,  and
"Information Systems," "Competition" and "Regulation" in this report.


                                   Competition

     The Company faces significant competition from companies seeking to attract
customer financial assets, including  full-commission  brokerage firms, discount
brokerage  firms,  online  brokerage  firms,  mutual fund  companies  and banks.
Certain of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources than
the Company,  particularly  given the  consolidation  trend within the financial
services industry. In addition,  the recent expansion and customer acceptance of
conducting  financial   transactions  online  has  attracted   competition  from
providers of online  services and software  development  companies.  The Company
experienced  declines in its average commission per revenue trade in 1998 mainly
due  to the  Company's  integration  of its  online  and  traditional  brokerage
services and reduction of the price of online trades for most of its  customers,
resulting in an increase in the  proportion of trades placed  through its online
channels.  As the  Company  focuses on further  enhancements  to its  electronic
service  offering and online trades  increase,  average  commission  per revenue
trade is expected to continue to decline.
     Many brokerage  firms employ  substantial  funds in advertising  and direct
solicitation  of customers to increase their market share of commission  dollars
and other  securities-related  income.  Most discount brokerage firms and online
brokerage firms charge commissions lower than Schwab.  Full-commission brokerage
firms also offer discounted  commissions to selected retail brokerage customers.
In addition, some full-commission brokerage firms have begun to offer discounted
or free online trades,  usually as part of a fee-based account. Such competition
may negatively  impact the Company's  customer asset growth,  revenue growth and
profit margin.
     While certain  competitors,  especially  brokerage firms focused on trading
via  online  channels,   are  expected  to  continue  price-based   competition,
management  believes that  providing  superior  service and value are crucial to
appealing  to a broad set of  investors.  Management  believes  that the Company
primarily  competes on the basis of its ability to combine people and technology
in ways that provide investors with the access, information, guidance and advice
they expect, as well as superior service, all at a significantly lower cost than
traditional providers of financial services. As a result, the Company expects to
increasingly  compete  with  full-commission  brokerage  firms,  banks and other
traditional providers of financial products and services.


                                   Regulation

     The  securities  industry  in the United  States is  subject  to  extensive
regulation  under both  federal  and state laws.  The  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  (SEC) is the  federal  agency  charged  with  administration  of the
federal  securities laws. Schwab and M&S are registered as  broker-dealers  with
the SEC.  Schwab and CSIM are  registered as  investment  advisors with the SEC.
Additionally,  Schwab is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC)  with  respect  to  its  introduced   futures  and  commodities   trading
activities.
     Much  of  the   regulation  of   broker-dealers   has  been   delegated  to
self-regulatory   organizations,   principally   the  National   Association  of
Securities Dealers,  Inc. (NASD) and the national  securities  exchanges such as
the New York Stock  Exchange  (NYSE),  which has been  designated  by the SEC as
Schwab's primary regulator with respect to its securities  activities.  The NASD
has been  designated  by the SEC as M&S' primary  regulator  with respect to its
securities  activities.  The  NYSE  has  been  designated  as  Schwab's  primary
regulator with respect to its options trading  activities for 1998 and 1999. The
National Futures  Association  (NFA) has been designated by the CFTC as Schwab's
primary regulator with respect to its introduced futures and commodities trading
activities. These self-regulatory organizations adopt rules (subject to approval
by the SEC or CFTC) governing the industry and conduct periodic  examinations of
broker-dealers.  Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by state
securities  authorities in the states in which they do business.  In addition to
its  membership  in the NYSE,  Schwab is also a member of most other  major U.S.
securities exchanges and is consequently subject to their rules and regulations.
Schwab was  registered  as a  broker-dealer  in fifty  states,  the  District of
Columbia  and Puerto Rico as of  December  31,  1998.  M&S was  registered  as a
broker-dealer  in thirty-two  states and the District of Columbia as of December
31, 1998.
     The principal purpose of regulations and discipline of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors is the protection of customers and the securities  markets,
rather than  protection  of creditors and  stockholders  of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors.  The  regulations to which  broker-dealers  and investment
advisors are subject  cover all aspects of the  securities  business,  including
sales methods,  trading practices among broker-dealers,  uses and safekeeping of
customers' funds and securities,  capital structure of securities firms,  record
keeping and reporting, fee arrangements,  disclosure to clients, and the conduct
of directors,  officers and employees. As registered investment advisors, Schwab
and CSIM are subject to the requirements of the Investment  Advisers Act of 1940
and the regulations thereunder, which impose, among other things, various record
keeping,  reporting,  and disclosure requirements and impose limitations on fees
and  principal  transactions  between  an  advisor  and its  clients.  The state
securities law requirements  applicable to registered investment advisors are in
certain cases more comprehensive than those imposed under the federal securities
laws.
     Additional  legislation,  changes in rules  promulgated  by the SEC,  other
federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory  organizations,  or
changes in the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of existing  laws and rules may
directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers  and
investment advisors. The profitability of broker-dealers and investment advisors
could also be affected by rules and  regulations  which  impact the business and
financial  communities  in  general,  including  changes  to the laws  governing
taxation,   antitrust  regulation  and  electronic  commerce.   The  SEC,  CFTC,
self-regulatory organizations and state securities authorities may conduct civil
or  administrative  proceedings  which can result in  censure,  fine,  cease and
desist orders,  or suspension or expulsion of a  broker-dealer  or an investment
advisor,  its officers,  or  employees.  Schwab and M&S have been the subject of
such administrative proceedings.
     Certain SEC rules and rule  amendments,  known as the Order Handling Rules,
have  significantly  altered  the  manner in which  orders  for both  Nasdaq and
exchange-listed  securities are handled.  These rules were implemented in phases
between January 20, 1997 and October 13, 1997. Additionally,  in June 1997, most
major U.S. securities markets,  including Nasdaq and the NYSE, began quoting and
trading most securities in increments of one-sixteenth  dollar per share instead
of one-eighth dollar per share.  Mainly as a result of these regulatory  changes
and  changes in  industry  practices,  M&S'  average  revenue  per share  traded
declined during 1998 as compared to 1997. The major U.S. securities markets have
announced that at an unspecified  date after the beginning of 2000,  they intend
to begin quoting and trading  securities in decimal  increments.  This change is
likely to cause further decreases in average revenue per share traded.  See also
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition -- Revenues -- Principal  Transactions"  in the Company's  1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No.
13.1 of this report.
     As registered broker-dealers and NASD member organizations,  Schwab and M&S
are  required by federal  law to belong to the  Securities  Investor  Protection
Corporation  (SIPC),  which  provides,  in the  event  of the  liquidation  of a
broker-dealer,  protection for securities held in customer  accounts held by the
firm of up to $500,000 per  customer,  subject to a  limitation  of $100,000 for
claims  of cash  balances.  SIPC is funded  through  assessments  on  registered
broker-dealers.  In addition,  Schwab  purchased  from a private  surety company
additional account  protection of up to $99.5 million per customer,  as defined,
for customer  securities  in each  account,  of which  $500,000 is available for
claims of cash balances.  Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and money market funds are
considered  securities  for the purposes of SIPC  protection  and the additional
protection (i.e.,  protected securities may either be replaced or converted into
an equivalent market value as of the date a SIPC trustee is appointed).  Neither
SIPC  protection nor the additional  protection  applies to  fluctuations in the
market value of securities.
     Schwab  is  authorized  by the  Municipal  Securities  Rulemaking  Board to
conduct  transactions in municipal securities on behalf of its customers and has
obtained  certain  additional  registrations  with the SEC and state  regulatory
agencies necessary to permit it to engage in certain other activities incidental
to its brokerage business.
     Margin  lending by Schwab  and M&S is  subject  to the margin  rules of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the NYSE. Under such rules,
broker-dealers  are  limited  in the  amount  they may lend in  connection  with
certain  purchases and short sales of securities and are also required to impose
certain  maintenance  requirements  on the amount of securities and cash held in
margin accounts. In addition, those rules and rules of the Chicago Board Options
Exchange  govern the amount of margin  customers  must  provide and  maintain in
writing uncovered options.
     As a California  state-chartered trust company, CSTC is primarily regulated
by the  State of  California  Department  of  Financial  Institutions.  Since it
provides  employee benefit plan trust services,  CSTC is also required to comply
with  the  Employee   Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974  (ERISA)  and,
consequently,  is subject to oversight by both the Internal  Revenue Service and
Department  of Labor.  CSTC is required  under ERISA to maintain a fidelity bond
for the protection of employee benefit trusts for which it serves as trustee.
     The Company's  business is also subject to  regulation by various  non-U.S.
governments,  securities exchanges and regulatory bodies,  particularly in those
countries  where it has  acquired  subsidiaries.  Such  regulation  may directly
affect  the method of  operation  and  profitability  of the  Company's  foreign
operations.
     Charles  Schwab  Limited,  a  subsidiary  of Schwab,  is  registered  as an
arranger with the Securities and Futures  Authority (SFA) in the United Kingdom,
and engages in business development activities on behalf of Schwab.
     Charles Schwab Europe is registered as a broker-dealer  with the SFA in the
United Kingdom. 
     Charles Schwab,  Hong Kong,  Ltd., a subsidiary of CSC, is  registered as a
securities dealer and commodity trading advisor under the Securities and Futures
Commission in Hong Kong.


                            Net Capital Requirements

     As registered broker-dealers, Schwab and M&S are subject to the Uniform Net
Capital Rule (Rule  15c3-1) under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the Net
Capital Rule), which has also been adopted through incorporation by reference in
NYSE Rule 325. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements.  Schwab is
a member firm of the NYSE, the NASD and the NFA, and M&S is a member firm of the
NASD. The Net Capital Rule specifies  minimum net capital  requirements that are
intended  to  ensure  the  general   financial   soundness   and   liquidity  of
broker-dealers.  Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm
to suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and the NASD, certain punitive actions by
the SEC and  other  regulatory  bodies,  and  ultimately  may  require  a firm's
liquidation.  Because CSC itself is not a  registered  broker-dealer,  it is not
subject to the Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab failed to maintain specified
levels of net  capital,  such  failure  would  constitute a default by CSC under
certain debt covenants.
     "Net   capital"  is   essentially   defined  as  net  worth  (assets  minus
liabilities),  plus qualifying subordinated borrowings,  less certain deductions
that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and
from  conservatively  valuing  certain other assets.  These  deductions  include
charges  that  discount  the value of firm  security  positions  to reflect  the
possibility of adverse changes in market value prior to disposition.
     The Net Capital Rule requires  notice of equity  capital  withdrawals to be
provided to the SEC prior to and  subsequent to  withdrawals  exceeding  certain
sizes. Such rule prohibits  withdrawals that would reduce a broker-dealer's  net
capital to an amount less than 25% of its deductions required by the Net Capital
Rule as to its  security  positions.  The Net Capital  Rule also allows the SEC,
under limited circumstances, to restrict a broker-dealer from withdrawing equity
capital for up to twenty business days.
     Schwab and M&S have elected the  alternative  method of  calculation  under
paragraph  (a)(1)(ii) of the Net Capital Rule, which requires a broker-dealer to
maintain  minimum  net  capital  equal  to 2% of its  "aggregate  debit  items,"
computed  in  accordance   with  the  Formula  for   Determination   of  Reserve
Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934).  "Aggregate  debit  items"  are assets  that have as their  source
transactions  with  customers,  primarily  margin loans.  Under the  alternative
method of the Net Capital Rule, a  broker-dealer  may not (a) pay, or permit the
payment or withdrawal of, any subordinated  borrowings or (b) pay cash dividends
or permit equity  capital to be removed if, after giving effect to such payment,
withdrawal,  or removal,  its net capital would be less than 5% of its aggregate
debit items.
     Under NYSE Rule 326,  Schwab is required to reduce its  business if its net
capital  is less  than  4% of  aggregate  debit  items  for  more  than  fifteen
consecutive  business  days;  NYSE  Rule 326 also  prohibits  the  expansion  of
business if net capital is less than 5% of  aggregate  debit items for more than
fifteen  consecutive  business days. The provisions of NYSE Rule 326 also become
operative if capital withdrawals (including scheduled maturities of subordinated
borrowings  during the  following  six months)  would result in a reduction of a
firm's net capital to the levels indicated.
     If compliance  with  applicable net capital rules were to limit Schwab's or
M&S'  operations  and their ability to repay  subordinated  debt to CSC, this in
turn could limit CSC's  ability to repay debt,  pay cash  dividends and purchase
shares of its outstanding stock. See also "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  --  Liquidity  and Capital
Resources --  Liquidity" in the  Company's  1998 Annual Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     At December 31, 1998,  Schwab was required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net  Capital  Rule of $194  million  and had total net capital of $987
million.  At  December  31,  1998,  the  amounts  in  excess of 2%, 4% and 5% of
aggregate  debit  items  were  $793  million,  $600  million  and $503  million,
respectively.
     At December  31,  1998,  M&S was  required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net  Capital  Rule of $1  million  and had total  net  capital  of $14
million.  At December 31, 1998, the amount in excess of its minimum required net
capital was $13 million.


Item 2.       Properties

     The Company's corporate  headquarters are located in a 28-story building at
101  Montgomery  Street in San  Francisco,  California.  The  building  contains
296,000  square feet and is leased by Schwab  under a term  expiring in the year
2010.  Schwab has three successive  five-year options to renew the lease at then
current market rates.  Schwab also has a lease for 398,000 square feet of office
space located at 211 Main Street in San Francisco, California. The lease expires
in 2018 and  includes  two ten-year  extension  options at then  current  market
rates.  In addition to these  locations,  Schwab leases space in other buildings
for its San Francisco  operations,  including its principal executive offices at
120 Kearny Street, aggregating 960,000 additional square feet. M&S' headquarters
are located in leased office space in Jersey City, New Jersey.
     All of the  Company's  branch  offices  are  located  in  leased  premises,
generally  with lease  expiration  dates five to ten years  from  inception.  In
addition,  the Company has four regional customer telephone service centers. The
Company  owns the  service  centers  located in Phoenix and  Indianapolis,  with
288,000 and  164,000  square  feet,  respectively.  The  Company  also leases an
additional  148,000  square  feet as part of its  Phoenix  service  center.  The
Company leases the service centers  located in Orlando and Denver,  with 213,000
and 163,000 square feet, respectively.
     The Company owns its two primary data center facilities  located in Phoenix
totaling 147,000 square feet. 
     While the   corporate  headquarters  and  data  centers  support all of the
Company's segments, the branch offices and service centers primarily support the
Individual  Investor  and Institutional  Investor segments and M&S' headquarters
supports the Capital Markets segment.


Item 3.       Legal Proceedings

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in  note  "12.   Commitments  and  Contingent   Liabilities"  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 1998.


                                     PART II


Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
              Stockholder Matters

     The Company's  common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific  Exchange
under the ticker symbol SCH. The number of common  stockholders  of record as of
March 18, 1999 was 7,350.
     The other  information  required to be  furnished  pursuant to this item is
included in "Quarterly Financial Information  (Unaudited)" in the Company's 1998
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 6.       Selected Financial Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Selected  Financial and Operating  Data" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
              Results of Operations

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition"  in the  Company's  1998  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Average  balances  and  interest  rates for the fourth quarters of 1998 and
1997 are  summarized  as follows (dollars in millions):



    The increase in interest revenue, net of interest expense,  from the fourth
quarter of 1997 to the fourth quarter of 1998 was primarily due to higher levels
of average earning assets, partially offset by higher levels of average customer
cash balances.


Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition -- Risk Management -- Market Risk" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in the Consolidated  Financial Statements and "Quarterly  Financial  Information
(Unaudited)"  in the  Company's  1998 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which are
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
              Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III


Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  information  relating  to  directors  of the  Company  required  to be
furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by reference from portions of
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be filed  with the SEC  pursuant  to  Regulation  14A  within  120 days after
December  31,  1998 (the Proxy  Statement)  under "The Board of  Directors"  and
"Principal Stockholders."

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  following  table  provides  certain  information  about  each  of  the
Company's  current  executive  officers.  Executive  officers are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. However, Mr. Schwab
has an employment  agreement with the Company through March 2003, which includes
an automatic  renewal  feature that, as of each March 31,  extends the agreement
for an additional year unless either party elects to not extend the agreement.





     
     Mr. Schwab has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January
1998,  and Chairman  and a director of the Company  since its  incorporation  in
1986. Mr. Schwab was Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company from 1986 to 1997.
Mr. Schwab was a founder of Schwab in 1971 and has been its Chairman since 1978.
Mr. Schwab is currently a director of The Gap, Inc.,  Transamerica  Corporation,
Siebel Systems, Inc., AirTouch Communications, Inc. and a trustee of The Charles
Schwab  Family of Funds,  Schwab  Investments,  Schwab  Capital Trust and Schwab
Annuity Portfolios, all registered investment companies.

     Mr. Pottruck  has  been  Co-Chief  Executive  Officer of  the Company since
January 1998,  director of the Company since 1994,  and President of the Company
since 1992. Mr. Pottruck was Chief Operating Officer of the Company from 1994 to
September 1998. Mr.  Pottruck has been Chief  Executive  Officer of Schwab since
1992 and President of Schwab since 1988 (except for the period September 1997 to
April 1998).  Mr.  Pottruck  joined Schwab in 1984. Mr.  Pottruck is currently a
director of Intel Corporation,  McKesson HBOC, Inc. and Preview Travel,  Inc. In
1998, Mr.  Pottruck was named to the Federal  Advisory  Commission on Electronic
Commerce.
     
     Ms.  Chang has been  Enterprise  President - General  Investor  Services of
Schwab and Executive  Vice  President of the Company  since 1997.  Ms. Chang was
Executive  Vice President - Retail Branch Network of the Company and Schwab from
1996 to 1997 and Senior Vice  President - Retail  Branch  Network of the Company
and Schwab from 1994 to 1996.  Prior to joining  Schwab in 1994,  Ms.  Chang was
Senior Marketing Vice President of American Express Company from 1989 to 1994.

     Mr.  Coghlan  has been  Enterprise  President  -  Services  for  Investment
Managers  of Schwab  since May 1998,  Enterprise  President  -  Retirement  Plan
Services of Schwab since 1997 and Executive  Vice President of the Company since
1992. Mr. Coghlan was Executive Vice President of Schwab and General  Manager of
Schwab  Institutional  from 1992 to 1997.  Mr.  Coghlan  joined  Schwab in 1986,
became Vice President in 1988 and became Senior Vice President in 1990.

     Ms.  Deily has been  President - Retail  Group of Schwab since May 1998 and
Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1997.  Ms. Deily was  Enterprise
President  - Services  for  Investment  Managers of Schwab from 1997 to 1998 and
Executive Vice President and General Manager - Services for Investment  Managers
of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1997.  Before joining Schwab in 1996, Ms.
Deily was Chairman,  President and Chief Executive  Officer of First  Interstate
Bank of Texas from 1991 to 1996.

     Mr. Gorman has been  Enterprise  President - Capital Markets and Trading of
Schwab and Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1997.  Mr. Gorman was
Executive Vice President - Capital Markets and Trading of the Company and Schwab
from 1996 to 1997.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1996,  Mr.  Gorman was a Managing
Director of Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation from 1988 to 1996. Mr. Gorman
was named a director of the Securities Industry Association in 1998.

     Mr. Leemon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy  Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1995.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1995,  Mr. Leemon
held various  positions  with The Boston  Consulting  Group,  Inc., a management
consulting firm, from 1989 to 1995, including Vice President from 1990.

     Ms. Lepore has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information  Officer
of the Company and Schwab since 1993. Ms. Lepore joined Schwab in 1983. In 1998,
Ms. Lepore was named a director of the Times Mirror Company.

     Ms. Lyons has been Enterprise  President - Retail Client Services of Schwab
and Executive  Vice President of the Company since 1997. Ms. Lyons was Executive
Vice  President - Retail  Marketing  of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1997
and Senior Vice President - Active Trader of the Company and Schwab from 1994 to
1996.  Ms.  Lyons was Senior  Vice  President - Retail  Service  Delivery of the
Company and Schwab from 1993 to 1994. Ms. Lyons joined Schwab in 1992.

     Mr. Sasson has been Enterprise  President - Electronic  Brokerage of Schwab
and Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1997.  Mr. Sasson was Senior
Vice  President -  Electronic  Brokerage  of the Company and Schwab from 1995 to
1997. Before joining Schwab in 1995, Mr. Sasson was Vice President - Information
Services of International  Business Machines Corporation in 1995. Mr. Sasson was
Vice  President,  Systems  Engineering  of FYI  Online,  a joint  venture of MCI
Communications Corporation and Equifax, Inc., from 1992 to 1995.

     Mr. Scheid has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1996 and Enterprise  President - Financial Products
and Services of Schwab since May 1998. Before joining Schwab in 1996, Mr. Scheid
was Executive Vice President of Finance of First Interstate Bancorp from 1994 to
1996 and was Principal  Financial  Officer from 1995 to 1996. From 1990 to 1994,
Mr. Scheid was Chief Financial Officer of First Interstate Bank of Texas.

     Mr. Valencia has been Enterprise  President - International of Schwab since
May 1998 and Executive  Vice President of the Company and Schwab since 1996. Mr.
Valencia served as Chief  Administrative  Officer of the Company and Schwab from
1996 to December  1998.  From 1994 to 1996,  Mr.  Valencia  was  Executive  Vice
President - Human Resources of the Company and Schwab.  Before joining Schwab in
1994, Mr. Valencia served as a Managing Director of Commercial Credit Company, a
subsidiary  of Travelers  Group Inc.  engaged in consumer  finance for Travelers
Group Inc., from 1993 to 1994.

Item 11.      Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from portions of the Proxy  Statement under "Director
Compensation,"   "Summary   Compensation   Table,"  "Option  Grants,"   "Options
Exercised,"   "Compensation   Committee  Report,"  "Certain  Transactions,"  and
"Appendix A -- Employment and Severance Agreements."


Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under  "Principal
Stockholders."


Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from a portion of the Proxy  Statement under "Certain
Transactions."


                                     PART IV


Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this Report

     1. Financial Statements

     The financial  statements and independent  auditors' report are included in
the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report and are listed below:

         Consolidated Statement of Income
         Consolidated Balance Sheet
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         Independent Auditors' Report

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statement schedules required to be furnished pursuant to this
item are listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1998.



  
(c)  Exhibits

     The exhibits  listed below are filed as part of this annual  report on Form
10-K.

Exhibit
Number                                Exhibit
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


   3.7    Third Restated  Certificate of Incorporation, as   amended  on  May 6,
          1996,    of   the   Registrant,   filed   as   Exhibit   3.7   to  the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September 30, 1996  and
          incorporated    herein   by reference.

   3.8    Second  Restated  Bylaws,   as  amended  on  July  17,  1996,  of  the
          Registrant, filed as Exhibit 3.8 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

   3.9    Second  Restated  Bylaws, as  amended  on  September 22, 1998, of  the
          Registrant (supersedes  Exhibit  3.8) filed  as  Exhibit  3.9  to  the
          Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September  30, 1998 and
          incorporated  herein  by reference.

   4.2    Neither  the  Registrant  nor  its  subsidiaries   are  parties to any
          instrument   with  respect  to long-term  debt  for  which  securities
          authorized thereunder exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant
          and its subsidiaries  on a consolidated  basis. Copies of  instruments
          with respect to long-term  debt of  lesser amounts will be provided to
          the SEC upon request.

   10.4   Form of  Release  Agreement  dated  as of March 31,  1987  among  BAC,
          Registrant, Schwab Holdings,  Inc.,  Charles Schwab  & Co.,  Inc.  and
          former shareholders of Schwab Holdings, Inc.                         *

   10.20  License  Agreements  dated April 18,  1979 and April 11, 1983  between
          International  Business Machines Corporation and Charles Schwab & Co.,
          Inc.                                                                 *
                      
   10.22  License Agreement dated as of February 28, 1979  between  Applied Data
          Research,   Inc.  and   Beta  Systems,  Inc.  and   Assignment,  dated
          February 21, 1979.                                                   *
                        
   10.23  License Agreement dated as of February 21, 1979 between Beta  Systems,
          Inc. and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                                  *
                                                   
   10.25  333 Bush Street  Office  Lease  dated July 29,  1987  between 333 Bush
          Street Associates and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                     *
                                                    
   10.34  Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into between Registrant  and
          certain   members  of  the   Board   of Directors of Registrant, filed
          as Exhibit  10.34 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K  for  the year ended
          December 31, 1993.

   10.57  Registration  Rights  and Stock  Restriction  Agreement,  dated as  of
          March 31,  1987,  between  the  Registrant  and  the  holders  of  the
          Common  Stock, filed  as  Exhibit  4.23 to  Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  No.  33-16192 on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated   herein  by
          reference.

   10.72  Restatement  of  Assignment and License, as  amended January 25, 1988,
          among   Charles   Schwab  & Co.,  Inc.,  Charles  R.  Schwab  and  the
          Registrant, filed  as  Exhibit  10.72 to the  Registrant's  Form  10-K
          for  the  year  ended  December 31, 1994   and    incorporated  herein
          by reference.

   10.87  Trust  Agreement under the Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and  Employee
          Stock Ownership  Plan, effective  November 1, 1990, dated  October 25,
          1990,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.87  to  the  Registrant's Form  10-Q for
          the  quarter  ended  September 30, 1995  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.101 First Amendment to the Trust Agreement under the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  effective January 1, 1992,
          dated December 20, 1991,  filed as Exhibit 10.101 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

   10.116 Second  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan  effective  July 1, 1992,
          dated June 30, 1992, filed as Exhibit 10.116 to the Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.120 ESOP  Loan  Agreement,  effective  as of  January  19,  1993,  between
          Registrant  and The Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee Stock
          Ownership Plan and Trust,  filed as Exhibit 10.120 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

   10.138 Form   of   Nonstatutory   Stock   Option Agreement  for  Non-Employee
          Directors,  filed  as  Exhibit 4.4 to  the  Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  No.  33-47842 on  Form  S-8  and  incorporated   herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.140 Form  of  Restricted  Shares Agreement, filed  as  Exhibit  4.6 to the
          Registrant's   Registration  Statement  No. 33-54701  on  Form S-8 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

   10.146 Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance Plan dated as of January 1,
          1995,  filed as Exhibit 10.146 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

   10.149 Employment Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 between the Registrant
          and Charles R.  Schwab,  filed as Exhibit  10.149 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

   10.156 Agreement  of Sale,  dated as of  September  18,  1995,  as amended by
          letter  agreement dated September 21, 1995 and by Second  Amendment to
          Agreement of Sale dated September 22, 1995,  between  American Express
          Company and Charles Schwab & Co.,  Inc.,  regarding  American  Express
          Western  Regional  Operations  Center  located at 2423 Lincoln  Drive,
          Phoenix,  Arizona,  filed as Exhibit 10.156 in the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.

   10.157 The Charles Schwab Corporation  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan,
          effective January 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.157 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

   10.158 Credit  Agreement  dated June 28, 1996 between the  Registrant and the
          banks listed therein, filed as Exhibit 10.158 to the Registrant's Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1996 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

   10.162 The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred  Compensation Plan, as amended
          September 17, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.162 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.                                                        +
                                                    
   10.163 Lease of 101 Montgomery  Street between 101 Montgomery  Street Co. and
          Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc.  dated  October 8, 1996,  filed as Exhibit
          10.163 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

   10.164 Office  Lease  of  Pacific   Telesis   Center  Telesis  Tower  between
          Post-Montgomery  Associates  and  Charles  Schwab  & Co.,  Inc.  dated
          October 4, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.164 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1996 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.

   10.166 The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1987  Executive  Officer Stock Option
          Plan,  restated to include  amendments through February 26, 1997, with
          form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement  (Executive Officer Stock
          Option Plan (1987))  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.159) filed as
          Exhibit  10.166 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                 +

   10.167 The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan,  restated to
          include   amendments   through   February  26,  1997,   with  form  of
          Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.160) filed as Exhibit 10.167 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

   10.169 Third  Amendment to the Trust  Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1996,
          dated May 8, 1996 filed as  Exhibit  10.169 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.175 Form of Restricted  Shares Award  Agreement with  performance  vesting
          conditions of The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
          (supersedes   Exhibit   10.155)   filed  as  Exhibit   10.175  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

   10.176 Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan  (supersedes Form of Non-Qualified
          Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit  10.167) filed as Exhibit 10.176 to
          the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

   10.177 Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.177 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +
                                                 
   10.178 Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.178 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

   10.179 Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan (supersedes Form
          of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit 10.166) filed as
          Exhibit  10.179 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

   10.180 Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit
          10.180 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30,
          1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                           +

   10.181 Commercial office lease of 211 Main Street between Main Plaza, LLC and
          Charles  Schwab & Co.,  Inc.  dated  August 8, 1997  filed as  Exhibit
          10.181 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

   10.182 The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, amended
          and restated,  effective  January 1, 1996 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.147)
          filed as Exhibit 10.182 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

   10.185 The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Senior  Executive  Severance  Policy,
          effective December 7, 1995 filed as Exhibit 10.185 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1997 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.                                                 +
                                                   
   10.186 The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option  Plan,  as amended
          October 22, 1997, with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement
          (General  Management Plan) attached  (supersedes Exhibit 10.160) filed
          as  Exhibit  10.186 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.              +

   10.187 The Charles Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (Restated to
          include  Amendments  through  October 22,  1997)  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.170) filed as Exhibit 10.187 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

   10.188 The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan
          (1987), as amended October 22, 1997, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock
          Option   Agreement   (Executive  Officer  Stock  Option  Plan  (1987))
          attached, (supersedes Exhibit 10.159) filed as  Exhibit 10.188 to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +
                                               
   10.189 Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance  Plan as amended January 1,
          1998 filed as  Exhibit  10.189 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

   10.190 The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Employee  Stock  Incentive Plan dated
          October 22, 1997 filed as Exhibit 10.190 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.191 Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.171)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.191 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

   10.192 Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.172)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.192 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

   10.193 Form of Nonstatutory  Stock Option and  Performance  Unit Agreement of
          The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.173) filed as Exhibit 10.193 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

   10.194 Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.174)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.194 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +
                                                   
   10.195 Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan, as
          amended through December 1, 1997 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.168) filed as
          Exhibit  10.195  to the  Registrant's  Form  10-K for the  year  ended
          December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.              +

   10.196 Credit  Agreement  dated June 27, 1997 between the  Registrant and the
          banks listed  therein  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.158)  filed as Exhibit
          10.196 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
          1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

   10.197 Credit Agreement (364-Day Commitment), between the Registrant and each
          of the banks  listed  therein,  dated as of June 26, 1998  (supersedes
          Exhibit  10.196),  filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's  Current
          Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 17,  1998 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

   10.198 Credit Agreement (3-Year Commitment),  between the Registrant and each
          of the banks  listed  therein,  dated as of June 26, 1998  (supersedes
          Exhibit  10.196),  filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the  Registrant's  Current
          Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 17,  1998 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

   10.199 The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred  Compensation Plan, as amended
          through July 24, 1998 (supersedes  Exhibit  10.162),  filed as Exhibit
          10.199 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          30, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.                       +
                                                         
   10.200 Form of Indemnification  Agreement entered into between Registrant and
          members of the Board of Directors of  Registrant  (supersedes  exhibit
          10.34).

   10.201 Seventh  Amendment to the Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee
          Stock  Ownership  Plan  (Amendments 1 through 6 of the Charles  Schwab
          Profit  Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan are  incorporated
          under Exhibit 10.195,  filed with the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended December 31, 1997).                                +
                                                         
   10.202 Fourth  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan effective January 1, 1998. +

   10.203 The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated
          to   include  Amendments  through  March 20, 1998  (supersedes Exhibit
          10.187).                                                             +

  12.1    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

  13.1    Portions  of The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1998  Annual  Report to
          Stockholders, which have been incorporated herein by reference. Except
          for such  portions,  such  annual  report is not  deemed to be "filed"
          herewith.

  21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  23.1    Independent Auditors' Consent.

  27.1    Financial Data Schedule (electronic only).




*  Incorporated  by  reference to the  identically-numbered  exhibit to  
   Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.  33-16192 on Form S-1, as 
   amended and declared effective on September 22, 1987.

+   Management contract or compensatory plan.



                   
                                  
                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 25, 1999.

                                                  THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                                                           (Registrant)         


                                                BY: /s/ Charles R. Schwab
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Charles R. Schwab
                                                    Chairman, Co-Chief Executive
                                                     Officer and Director

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated, on March 25, 1999.

    Signature / Title                                  Signature / Title
    -----------------                                  -----------------

/s/ Charles R. Schwab                           /s/ David S. Pottruck
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Charles R. Schwab,                              David S. Pottruck,
Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer            President, Co-Chief Executive 
   and Director                                    Officer and Director
   (principal executive officer)                   (principal executive officer)


/s/ Steven L. Scheid  
- --------------------------------               
Steven L. Scheid,
Executive Vice President
   and Chief Financial Officer
   (principal financial and accounting officer)


/s/ Nancy H. Bechtle                            /s/ C. Preston Butcher     
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Nancy H. Bechtle, Director                      C. Preston Butcher, Director


/s/ Donald G. Fisher                                
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Donald G. Fisher, Director                      Anthony M. Frank, Director


/s/ Frank C. Herringer                          /s/ Stephen T. McLin     
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Frank C. Herringer, Director                    Stephen T. McLin, Director


/s/ Mark A. Pulido                              /s/ Arun Sarin  
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
Mark A. Pulido, Director                        Arun Sarin, Director


/s/ George P. Shultz                            /s/ Roger O. Walther     
- --------------------------------                --------------------------------
George P. Shultz, Director                      Roger O. Walther, Director






                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                     Index to Financial Statement Schedules


                                                                            Page


Independent Auditors' Report                                                 F-2

Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
                     Condensed Balance Sheet                                 F-3
                     Condensed Statement of Income                           F-4
                     Condensed Statement of Cash Flows                       F-5
                     Notes to Condensed Financial Information                F-6

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                              F-7









Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions  under
which they are required or because the  information is included in the Company's
consolidated  financial statements and notes in the Company's 1998 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


                                      F-1





INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT
- ------------------------------




To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
     The Charles Schwab Corporation:



We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The Charles  Schwab
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  1998,  and have
issued our report thereon dated February 22, 1999; such  consolidated  financial
statements  and report are included in your 1998 Annual  Report to  Stockholders
and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the financial
statement  schedules of the Company listed in Item 14. These financial statement
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion  based on our audits.  In our opinion,  such  financial
statement  schedules,  when  considered  in relation  to the basic  consolidated
financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.






/s/DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
San Francisco, California
February 22, 1999


                                      F-2



                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)


See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.

                                      F-3




                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)


See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.

                                      F-4


                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)


See Notes to Condensed Financial Information.

                                      F-5



                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                    Notes to Condensed Financial Information


1.   Introduction and basis of presentation

     The condensed financial  information of The Charles Schwab Corporation (the
     Parent  Company)  should  be  read in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated
     financial  statements of The Charles Schwab  Corporation  and  subsidiaries
     (the Company) and notes  thereto found in the Company's  1998 Annual Report
     to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No.
     13.1 of this report.

2.   Supplemental cash flow information
     
     During 1998, the Parent Company recorded a non-cash capital contribution of
     $69 million to its subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), through
     the assumption of indebtedness.

     Certain information  affecting the cash flows of the Parent Company follows
     (in thousands):


3.   Common stock split

     The Parent  Company's Board of Directors  declared a  three-for-two  common
     stock split, distributed December 1998, effected in the form of a 50% stock
     dividend.

4.   Related  party  transactions  
     
     The  Parent Company provides  subordinated  revolving credit  facilities to
     its subsidiaries,  Schwab and Mayer & Schweitzer, Inc. (M&S). Schwab  had a
     $450 million subordinated  revolving credit  facility maturing in September
     2000, of which $405 million  was  outstanding  at December  31, 1998.  This
     credit  facility  was  $400  million  at  the  end of 1997,  of  which $315
     million was outstanding  at  December  31,  1997.  At year end 1998, Schwab
     also had outstanding  $25  million in  fixed-rate  subordinated  term loans
     from the Parent Company maturing in 2000. The outstanding  balance of these
     term  loans  was  also  $25  million  at  year  end  1997.  M&S  had  a $35
     million subordinated  lending  arrangement  maturing in 2000, which was not
     used in  1998  or 1997. Interest  earned by the  Parent  Company from these
     subordinated lending  arrangements totaled $37 million in 1998, $26 million
     in 1997 and $22 million in 1996.

                                       F-6


                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 

                                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION





                                      F-7

