
10-K
10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K


                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997        Commission file number 1-9700



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


      Delaware                                        94-3025021
(State or other jurisdiction             (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
of incorporation or organization)

                 101 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, CA 94104
              (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------                    -----------------------------------------
Common Stock - $0.01 par value         New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                       Pacific Exchange, Inc.

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  x    No 
                                          ---      ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of March 12,  1998,  the  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates  of the  registrant  was  $8,112,875,618.  For  purposes  of  this
information,  the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock owned by  directors  and
executive  officers of the  registrant, and certain investment companies managed
by Charles Schwab Investment Management, Inc. were deemed to be shares of Common
Stock held by affiliates.

The  number  of  shares of Common  Stock  outstanding  as of March 12,  1998 was
267,742,421* shares.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate certain information contained in the
registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders by reference to portions of that
document.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates certain information contained
in the  registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  to be held May 11, 1998 by reference to portions of that document.

* Reflects the September 1997 three-for-two common stock split.






                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                           Annual Report On Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1997



                                






                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                                                          
                                     PART I


Item 1.       Business

     (a) General  Development of Business.  The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)
was incorporated in 1986 and engages,  through its  subsidiaries,  in securities
brokerage and related financial  services.  As used herein, the "Company" refers
to CSC and its subsidiaries.  CSC's principal subsidiary,  Charles Schwab & Co.,
Inc. (Schwab), is a securities  broker-dealer.  Schwab was incorporated in 1971,
and entered the discount  brokerage  business in 1974. Mayer & Schweitzer,  Inc.
(M&S),  a  subsidiary  acquired in 1991,  is a market  maker in Nasdaq and other
securities  that  provides  trade  execution   services  to  broker-dealers  and
institutional customers.
     Other  subsidiaries  of CSC include Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,
Inc.  (CSIM),  The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC) and Charles Schwab Europe
(formerly  known  as  ShareLink).  CSIM,  incorporated  in  1989,  acts  as  the
investment adviser for Schwab's  proprietary mutual funds. The Company refers to
certain   funds   for   which   CSIM   is   the   investment   adviser   as  the
SchwabFunds-Registered  Trademark-. CSTC, incorporated in 1992, provides custody
services for independent  investment managers and serves as trustee for employee
benefit plans,  primarily 401(k) plans. Charles Schwab Europe,  acquired in 1995
to  expand  the  Company's  international   operations,  is  a  retail  discount
securities brokerage firm located in the United Kingdom.
     New  developments  in  the  Company's  business  during  1997  include  the
continued expansion of products and services tailored to meet customers' varying
investment and financial needs.  During 1997,  Schwab  announced  alliances with
three investment  banking firms to provide certain of its customers  initial and
secondary  public  stock  offerings  managed by these firms.  Additionally,  the
Company began to offer access to futures and  commodities  trading to certain of
its most  active  customers.  The  Company is also  enhancing  the ways it helps
investors  develop and evaluate their investment  choices.  In 1997, the Company
introduced a number of new  Internet-based  investment  services,  including the
Asset Allocation  Toolkit-TM- for portfolio allocation guidance,  and the Mutual
Fund  OneSource-Registered  Trademark-  Online  and  Market  Buzz-TM-  sites for
research and information.  The Company also broadened its multi-channel delivery
systems to make investing more  accessible to more people.  During 1997,  Schwab
introduced a speech recognition telephone trading service that enables customers
to trade any of the funds in the Mutual Fund  Marketplace-Registered  Trademark-
using vocal commands.
     During 1997,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  declared a  three-for-two
common stock split,  distributed September 1997, effected in the form of a stock
dividend.  Share and per share  information  throughout  this  report  have been
restated.  The Board increased the quarterly cash dividend 20% to $.04 per share
in 1997.

     (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments.  The Company operates in
a single industry segment:  securities brokerage and related financial services.
Fees  received  from  the  Company's   proprietary   mutual  funds   represented
approximately 12% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 1997. As of December
31, 1997,  approximately 28% of Schwab's total customer accounts were located in
California.  The  next  highest  geographic  concentrations  of  total  customer
accounts were approximately 8% in Florida, 7% in New York and 6% in Texas.

     (c) Narrative Description of Business. The Company's strategy is to attract
and retain customer assets by focusing on a number of areas within the financial
services  industry -- retail  brokerage,  mutual  funds,  support  services  for
independent  investment  managers,  equity  securities  market-making and 401(k)
defined  contribution  plans.  To  pursue  its  strategy  and its  objective  of
long-term  profitable  growth,  the Company  plans to  continue to leverage  its
competitive advantages.  These advantages include a nationally recognized brand,
a broad range of products and services,  multi-channel  delivery  systems and an
ongoing investment in technology.
     The  Company's  primary  focus is serving  retail  investors,  directly  or
through independent investment managers, who want access to a broad selection of
products and services,  as well as investment news and information,  tailored to
meet their financial needs. The Company, through Schwab, serves over 4.8 million
active customer accounts(a).  Customer assets totaled $353.7 billion at December
31, 1997.
     The Company, through Schwab and M&S, engages in market-making activities 
in exchange-listed,  Nasdaq and other equity securities. Regulatory changes 
and changes in industry customs and practices are significantly  impacting 
these  market-making activities.  See "Management's  Discussion and Analysis 
of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition" in the Company's  1997 
Annual Report to  Stockholders, which is  incorporated  herein by  reference 
to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report, and "Regulation" below.
     The Company's business,  like that of other securities  brokerage firms, is
directly  affected by the  fluctuations in securities  trading volumes and price
levels that occur in fundamentally cyclical financial markets. Such fluctuations
are affected by many national and  international  economic and political factors
that cannot be predicted,  including  broad trends in business and finance,  the
availability  of credit and capital,  legislation  and regulation  affecting the
United States and  international  business and financial  communities,  currency
values, and the level and volatility of interest rates.

- --------
(a)   Accounts with balances or activity within the preceding twelve months.







Shifts in  customer  investment  preferences  or in  customer  usage of Schwab's
multi-channel delivery systems also could reduce trading revenues, which include
commission and principal transaction  revenues.  Since trading revenues continue
to represent a majority of the Company's  revenues,  the Company may  experience
significant variations in revenues from period to period.
     The Company  adjusts its  expenses  in  anticipation  of and in response to
changes in financial market conditions and customer trading patterns. Certain of
the  Company's   expenses   (including   variable   compensation,   portions  of
communications,  and  commissions,  clearance and floor brokerage) vary directly
with changes in financial  performance or customer  trading  activity.  Expenses
relating  to the level of  temporary  employees,  contractors,  overtime  hours,
professional  services,  and advertising  and market  development are adjustable
over the  short  term to help the  Company  achieve  its  financial  objectives.
Additionally,  developmental  spending  (including branch openings,  product and
service  rollouts,  and technology  enhancements)  is  discretionary  and can be
altered in response to market conditions.  However, a significant portion of the
Company's  expenses  such as salaries and wages,  occupancy and  equipment,  and
depreciation and amortization do not vary directly,  at least in the short term,
with fluctuations in revenues or securities  trading volumes.  Also, the Company



views its  developmental  spending as essential  for future growth and therefore
tries to avoid major  adjustments in such spending unless faced with a sustained
slowdown  in  customer  trading  activity.  Given the  nature  of the  Company's
revenues and expenses,  and the economic and  competitive  factors  discussed in
this  report,  the  Company's  earnings and common stock price may be subject to
significant  volatility  from period to period.  The  Company's  results for any
period are not necessarily indicative of results for a future period.
     The table above sets forth on a comparative  basis the  Company's  revenues
for the three years ended December 31, 1997.


                                   Competition

     The Company faces significant competition from companies seeking to attract
customer financial assets, including  full-commission  brokerage firms, discount
brokerage firms,  mutual fund companies and banks.  Certain of these competitors
have  significantly  greater  financial  resources  and  offer a wider  range of
services  and  financial  products  than the  Company,  particularly  given  the
continued consolidation within the financial services industry. In addition, the
recent expansion and customer  acceptance of conducting  financial  transactions
online  has  attracted  competition  from  software  development  companies  and
providers of online services.  In 1997, price competition continued to intensify
in the area of online  investing as  competitors  sought to gain market share in
this  rapidly  growing  area.  The Company  experienced  declines in its average
commission per revenue trade as the proportion of its customers using electronic
brokerage  channels,   which  provide  discounts  from  the  Company's  standard
commission rates, has increased.  As the Company focuses on further enhancements
to its  electronic  service  offering,  average  commission per revenue trade is
expected to continue to decline.  The Company primarily competes on the basis of
quality of customer service,  breadth of products and services offered at prices
that management believes represent superior value,  accessibility to the Company
through its  multi-channel  delivery systems,  and technological  innovation and
expertise.
     Most discount brokerage firms and online-only  financial services providers
charge commissions lower than Schwab. Full-commission brokerage firms also offer
discounted  commissions to selected retail brokerage  customers.  Many brokerage
firms  employ  substantial  funds in  advertising  and  direct  solicitation  of
customers  to  increase  their  market  share of  commission  dollars  and other
securities-related  income. Such competition may negatively impact the Company's
customer asset growth, revenue growth and profit margin.


                       Advertising and Marketing Programs

     The Company's nationwide advertising and marketing programs are designed to
distinguish the Schwab brand as well as its products and services. The Company's
advertising and market development expense was $130 million in 1997, compared to
$84 million in 1996 and $53  million in 1995.  Expenditures  for these  programs
helped Schwab open  1,164,000 new accounts in 1997,  compared to 985,000 in 1996
and 698,000 in 1995. New customer  accounts  represent a significant  portion of
the growth in customer assets,  which the Company believes is critical to growth
in revenues.  Accounts  opened during 1997 generated 17% of Schwab's  commission
revenues during the year, compared to 16% in 1996 and 13% in 1995.
     Schwab  advertises   regularly  in   financially-oriented   newspapers  and
periodicals  and  occasionally  in  general  circulation  publications.   Schwab
advertisements  appear  regularly  on national  and local cable  television  and
periodically on radio and independent  television stations.  Schwab also engages
extensively  in  targeted  direct mail  advertising  through  monthly  statement
"inserts" and special mailings.
     In its  advertising,  as  well  as in  promotional  events  such  as  press
appearances,  Schwab has  promoted the name and  likeness of its  Chairman,  Mr.
Schwab.  The Company has an agreement  with Mr.  Schwab by which he,  subject to
certain  limitations,  has assigned to the Company and Schwab all service  mark,
trademark,  and  trade  name  rights in his name (and  variations  thereon)  and
likeness.


                              Products and Services

     The Company offers both a broad range of products and services  tailored to
meet  customers'  varying  investment and financial  needs, as well as access to
extensive investment news and information.

     Accounts  and  Features.  The  Company  offers  the  purchase  and  sale of
securities which include  exchange-listed,  Nasdaq and other equity  securities,
options,  mutual funds,  unit investment  trusts,  variable  annuities and fixed
income  investments,  including  United States  Treasuries,  zero-coupon  bonds,
listed and OTC corporate  bonds,  municipal  bonds,  GNMAs and CDs. In 1997, the
Company  began to offer certain of its  customers  initial and secondary  public
stock  offerings,  and  access to futures  and  commodities  trading.  Customers
approved  for margin  transactions  may borrow a portion of the price of certain
securities  purchased through Schwab,  or may sell securities  short.  Customers
must have specific approval to trade options;  as of December 31, 1997,  258,000
accounts were so approved. To write uncovered options, customers must go through
an additional 



approval  process and  must  maintain a significantly  higher level of equity in
their brokerage accounts.
     Because  Schwab does not pay interest on cash  balances in basic  brokerage
accounts,  it provides  customers  with an option to have cash balances in their
accounts    automatically    swept,   on   a   weekly   basis,    into   certain
SchwabFunds-Registered Trademark- money market funds.
     A customer may receive additional  services by qualifying for and opening a
Schwab  One-Registered  Trademark-  brokerage  account.  A  customer  may access
available funds in his or her Schwab One account either with a personal check or
a VISA-Registered  Trademark- debit card. When a Schwab One customer is approved
for margin trading, the checks and debit card also provide access to margin cash
available. For cash balances awaiting investment, Schwab pays interest to Schwab
One customers. Alternatively, qualifying Schwab One customers seeking tax-exempt
income  may elect to have cash  balances  swept  into  state-specific  municipal
tax-exempt  SchwabFunds money market funds or a tax-exempt  municipal trust (for
Florida taxpayers only).
     Schwab acts as  custodian,  as well as broker,  for  Individual  Retirement
Accounts (IRAs). In Schwab IRAs, cash balances are swept daily into one of three
SchwabFunds  money market  funds.  During  1997,  active IRAs  increased  20% to
1,604,000  accounts  and  customer  assets  in all IRAs  increased  35% to $88.2
billion. Schwab also acts as custodian and broker for Keogh accounts.

     Customer  Financing.  Customers'  securities  transactions are conducted on
either a cash or margin  basis.  Generally,  a customer  buying  securities in a
cash-only  brokerage  account is required to make  payment by  settlement  date,
usually three business days after the trade is executed.  However, for purchases
of certain types of securities,  such as certain mutual fund shares,  a customer
must have a cash or money market fund  balance in his or her account  sufficient
to pay for the trade prior to execution.  When selling securities, a customer is
required to deliver the securities,  and is entitled to receive the proceeds, on
settlement  date. In an account  authorized for margin trading,  Schwab may lend
its customer a portion of the market value of certain securities up to the limit
imposed by the  Federal  Reserve  Board,  which for most  equity  securities  is
initially 50%. Such loans are collateralized by the securities in the customer's
account.  Short sales of securities  represent sales of borrowed  securities and
create an obligation to purchase the  securities at a later date.  Customers may
sell  securities  short  in a margin  account  subject  to  minimum  equity  and
applicable  margin  requirements  and the  availability of such securities to be
borrowed and delivered.
     Interest  on margin  loans to  customers  provides an  important  source of
revenue to Schwab.  During 1997, Schwab's  outstanding margin loans to customers
averaged $6.4 billion.
     In  permitting  a customer to engage in  transactions,  Schwab faces credit
risk if the  customer  fails  to meet  his or her  obligations  in the  event of
adverse  changes in the market value of the  securities  positions in his or her
account. Under applicable rules and regulations for margin transactions, Schwab,
in the  event of such an  adverse  change,  requires  the  customer  to  deposit
additional  securities or cash, so that the amount of the customer's  obligation
is not greater than  specified  percentages of the cash and market values of the
securities in the account. As a matter of policy,  Schwab generally requires its
customers to maintain higher  percentages of collateral  values than the minimum
percentages required under these regulations.
     Schwab may use cash  balances in customer  accounts to extend margin credit
to  other  customers.  Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Rule  15c3-3  of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  the portion of such cash balances not used to
extend margin credit  (increased or decreased by certain other  customer-related
balances) must be held in segregated investment accounts.  The balances in these
segregated  investment  accounts must be invested in qualified  interest-bearing
securities. To the extent customer cash balances are available for use by Schwab
at interest  costs  lower than  Schwab's  costs of  borrowing  from  alternative
sources,  Schwab's cost of funds is reduced and its net income is enhanced. Such
interest savings  contribute  substantially to Schwab's  profitability and, if a
significant  reduction  of  customer  cash  balances  were  to  occur,  Schwab's
borrowings from other sources may have to increase and such profitability  would
decline.  To the extent Schwab's  customers elect to have cash balances in their
brokerage  accounts swept into certain  SchwabFunds money market funds, the cash
balances  available to Schwab for investments or for financing  margin loans are
reduced. However, Schwab receives mutual fund service fees from such funds based
on the daily average invested balances.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which
is  incorporated  herein by reference  to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this  report,  and
"Regulation" below.

     Mutual   Funds.    At   December   31,   1997,    Schwab's    Mutual   Fund
OneSource-Registered  Trademark-  service enabled  customers to trade 825 mutual
funds in 121 fund  families  without  incurring  transaction  fees.  The service
allows  investors to access  multiple  mutual fund  companies,  avoid  brokerage
transaction  fees, and achieve  investment  diversity  among fund  families.  In
addition,  investors'  record keeping and  investment  monitoring are simplified
through  one  consolidated  statement.  Fees  received  by Schwab for  providing
services,  including  record keeping and shareholder  services,  from the Mutual
Fund OneSource program are based upon daily balances of customer assets invested
in the participating  funds through Schwab and are paid by the funds and/or fund



sponsors.  Customer  assets held by Schwab that have been purchased  through the
Mutual  Fund   OneSource-Registered   Trademark-  service,   excluding  Schwab's
proprietary funds, totaled $56.6 billion at the end of 1997.
     Schwab's Mutual Fund  Marketplace-Registered  Trademark-  (including Mutual
Fund  OneSource)  provides  customers with the ability to invest in nearly 1,400
mutual funds in 219 fund families  sponsored by third parties.  Customer  assets
invested in the Mutual Fund  Marketplace,  excluding  the Mutual Fund  OneSource
service,  totaled $48.0 billion at the end of 1997. Schwab charges a transaction
fee on trades  placed in the  funds  included  in the  Mutual  Fund  Marketplace
(except on trades  through the Mutual Fund  OneSource  service).  These fees are
recorded as  commission  revenues.  Commissions  from customer  transactions  in
mutual fund shares  comprised  approximately  7% of  Schwab's  total  commission
revenues during the last three years.
     Schwab's   proprietary   funds,    collectively    referred   to   as   the
SchwabFunds-Registered  Trademark-,  include  money market  funds,  equity index
funds,  bond funds,  asset allocation  funds, and funds that primarily invest in
stock,  bond and money market funds.  Qualifying  Schwab  customers may elect to
have cash balances in their brokerage accounts automatically invested in certain
SchwabFunds money market funds. Customer assets invested in the SchwabFunds were
$55.8  billion  at the end of  1997.  Fees  received  by the  Company  from  the
SchwabFunds,  for  providing  transfer  agent  services,  shareholder  services,
administration  and  investment  management,  are based upon daily  balances  of
customer assets invested in these funds.

     Market Making In Nasdaq and Exchange-Listed  Securities. M&S provides trade
execution services in Nasdaq and other securities to  broker-dealers,  including
Schwab,  and  institutional  customers.  As a market  maker in Nasdaq  and other
securities,   M&S  generally  executes  customer  trades  as  principal.   While
substantially  all Nasdaq security trades  originated by the customers of Schwab
are  directed to M&S,  the  majority of M&S'  trading  volume comes from parties
other than Schwab.
     Schwab has  specialist  operations  on the Pacific  Exchange and the Boston
Stock Exchange to make markets in  exchange-listed  securities.  The majority of
trades originated by the customers of Schwab in  exchange-listed  securities for
which Schwab makes a market are  directed to these  operations.  At December 31,
1997, Schwab had 14 specialists on the Pacific Exchange and 3 specialists on the
Boston Stock Exchange that  collectively made markets in 900 and 100 securities,
respectively.
     In the normal course of their market making in exchange-listed,  Nasdaq and
other securities, Schwab and M&S maintain inventories in such securities on both
a long and short basis.  While long inventory  positions  represent Schwab's and
M&S' ownership of securities, short inventory positions represent obligations of
Schwab and M&S to deliver specified  securities at a contracted price, which may
differ  from  market  prices  prevailing  at  the  time  of  completion  of  the
transaction.  Accordingly, long or short inventory positions may result in gains
or losses as market values of such securities fluctuate.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition  -- Market  Risk" in the  Company's  1997 Annual  Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" below.

     Services for Independent  Investment  Managers.  To attract the business of
accounts  managed by  independent  investment  managers,  Schwab has a dedicated
business unit which includes experienced registered  representatives assigned to
individual  managers.  Independent  investment  managers  participating  in this
program who custody  customer  accounts at Schwab may use  SchwabLink-Registered
Trademark- and the SchwabLink Web-TM- site for investment  managers.  SchwabLink
is a computer-based  information  network which enables  investment  managers to
access  information  about their  customers'  accounts  directly  from  Schwab's
computer  databases and to enter their customers' trades online.  The SchwabLink
Web site enables investment managers to use the Internet to communicate directly
with Schwab service teams, as well as receive news and information. During 1997,
Schwab customer assets held in accounts managed by over 5,300 active independent
investment  managers  increased  $32.9  billion,  or 45%,  to a total of  $105.8
billion.  Independent  investment  managers  and  other  professional  investors
generated  approximately  12% of Schwab's total  commission  revenues during the
last three years.

     Retirement  Plan  Services.  Schwab serves  company  401(k) plans  directly
through a dedicated  sales force, as well as indirectly  through  alliances with
national and regional third-party administrators.  Schwab offers SchwabPlan-TM-,
a comprehensive  401(k) retirement plan, which enables employers to offer a wide
range of  investment  options  as well as  employee  education  to their  401(k)
retirement  plan  participants.  During  1997,  Schwab  continued to develop its
retirement plan services business,  with customer assets in corporate 401(k) and
other plans growing $4.9 billion, or 48%, to $15.1 billion.


                         Multi-Channel Delivery Systems

     The Company differentiates itself with multi-channel delivery systems which
allow  customers to choose how they prefer to do business  with the Company.  In
addition to its branch  office  network,  the Company  maintains  four  regional
customer telephone service centers as well as electronic brokerage channels.



     Branch Office Network.  At December 31, 1997,  Schwab operated 272 domestic
branch offices in 47 states,  as well as a branch in each of the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico and the United Kingdom. In addition, in 1997, the Company opened new
offices in Hong Kong and the Cayman Islands.  The Company's office network plays
a key role in building  its  business.   With the  customer  service  support of
regional customer telephone service centers and electronic  brokerage  channels,
branch  personnel are focusing a  significant  portion of their time on business
development.  Customers  can use branch  offices to open  accounts,  deliver and
receive checks and  securities,  obtain market  information,  place orders,  and
obtain  related  customer  services in person,  yet most branch  activities  are
conducted by telephone and mail.
     The Company is enhancing  the ways in which it may help  investors by using
the branch office  network to assist  investors in developing  asset  allocation
strategies  and evaluating  their  investment  choices.  Branch staff also refer
investors who desire  additional  guidance to  independent  investment  managers
through the Schwab AdvisorSource-TM- service.

     Regional  Customer  Telephone  Service  Centers.   Schwab's  four  regional
customer telephone service centers, located in Indianapolis, Denver, Phoenix and
Orlando,  handle  customer  trading and service calls  twenty-four  hours-a-day,
seven  days-a-week.  Customer orders placed during nonmarket hours are routed to
appropriate  markets the  following  business  day.  The capacity of the service
centers  allows the branch office  network to be  maintained  at lower  staffing
levels and to focus on business development.
     The Company's  customer  service approach is to use teams led by registered
representatives  in the service  centers,  who work closely  with branch  office
network  personnel.   Additionally,  certain  teams  at  these  centers  provide
specialized   services  to  active  and  affluent  investors.   Each  registered
representative  has immediate access to the customer account and  market-related
information  necessary  to  respond to  customer  inquiries.  For most  customer
orders,  registered   representatives  can  enter  the  order  and  confirm  the
transaction  immediately.  As a result  of this  approach,  the  departure  of a
registered  representative  generally does not result in a loss of customers for
the Company.

     Electronic  Brokerage  Channels.  Customers  are able to  obtain  financial
information  and execute  trades on an  automated  basis  through the  Company's
electronic  brokerage channels that provide both online and automated telephonic
access.  These channels are designed to provide added  convenience for customers
and minimize  Schwab's  costs of responding to and processing  routine  customer
transactions.  To  assist  customers  in  using  online  channels,  the  Company
maintains two online customer support centers that operate both during and after
normal market hours.
     Online channels  include  PC-based  services such as  SchwabLink-Registered
Trademark-,   and  the  Charles   Schwab  Web   Site-TM-   (formerly   known  as
SchwabNOW!-TM-)  -- an  information  and trading  service on the  Internet.  The
Company's  online  channels  handled  37% of total  trades  in  1997.  Automated
telephonic  channels  include   TeleBroker-Registered   Trademark-  --  Schwab's
touch-tone  telephone  trading service,  and  VoiceBroker-TM-  -- Schwab's voice
recognition quote service. Schwab's automated telephonic channels handled 73% of
total  customer  calls  received  in  1997.  Trades  placed  through  electronic
brokerage  channels  provide  discounts from the Company's  standard  commission
rates.


                               Information Systems

     Schwab's  operations  rely  heavily  on  its  information   processing  and
communications systems.  Schwab's system for processing a securities transaction
is highly automated.  Registered  representatives  equipped with online computer
terminals can access customer account information,  obtain securities prices and
related information, and enter orders online.
     To  support  its  multi-channel   delivery   systems,   as  well  as  other
applications such as clearing functions, account administration,  record keeping
and  direct  customer  access to  investment  information,  Schwab  maintains  a
sophisticated computer network connecting all of the branch offices and regional
customer  telephone service centers.  Schwab's  computers are also linked to the
major  registered  United  States  securities   exchanges,   M&S,  the  National
Securities Clearing Corporation and The Depository Trust Company.
     Failure of Schwab's information  processing or communications systems for a
significant  period of time could  limit  Schwab's  ability to process its large
volume of  transactions  accurately  and rapidly.  This could cause Schwab to be
unable to satisfy its obligations to customers and other  securities  firms, and
could result in regulatory violations.
     External events,  such as an earthquake or power failure,  loss of external
information  feeds,  such as  security  price  information,  as well as internal
malfunctions, such as those that could occur during the implementation of system
modifications, could render part or all of such systems inoperative.
     To enhance the  reliability  of the system and  integrity  of data,  Schwab
maintains  carefully  monitored  backup and recovery  functions.  These  include
logging of all critical files intraday,  duplication and storage of all critical
data outside of its central  computer site every 24 hours,  and  maintenance  of
facilities for backup and communications in San Francisco. They also include the
maintenance  and periodic  testing of a disaster  recovery plan that  management
believes would permit Schwab to recommence  essential computer operations if its
central  computer  site were to become  inaccessible.  To reduce the exposure to
system failures caused by external 



factors, including earthquakes, the Company's  primary data center is located in
Phoenix.
     Many existing  computer programs use only two digits to identify a specific
year and  therefore  may not  accurately  recognize  the upcoming  change in the
century.  If not  corrected,  many  computer  applications  could fail or create
erroneous  results by or at the year 2000.  Due to the  Company's  dependence on
computer technology to operate its business, and the dependence of the financial
services  industry  on computer  technology,  the nature and impact of Year 2000
processing failures on the Company's business could be material.  The Company is
currently  modifying  its  computer  systems in order to enable  its  systems to
process data and  transactions  incorporating  year 2000 dates without  material
errors or  interruptions.  See also  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of
Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition -- Year 2000" in the Company's
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


                        Clearing and Account Maintenance

     Schwab  performs  clearing  services  for all  securities  transactions  in
customer  accounts.  Schwab  clears the vast  majority of customer  transactions
through the facilities of the National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation or the
Options Clearing  Corporation.  Certain other transactions,  such as mutual fund
transactions and transactions in securities not eligible for settlement  through
a clearing  corporation,  are settled  directly  with the mutual  funds or other
financial institutions. Schwab is obligated to settle transactions with clearing
corporations,  mutual funds and other  financial  institutions  even if Schwab's
customer  fails to meet his or her  obligations  to  Schwab.  In  addition,  for
transactions that do not settle through a clearing corporation, Schwab takes the
risk  of  the  other  party's  failure  to  settle  the  trade.  See  "Financial
Instruments  with  Off-Balance-Sheet  and  Credit  Risk"  note in the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1997  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


                                    Employees

     As of December 31, 1997, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary
employees,  and  persons  employed  on a  contract  basis that  represented  the
equivalent of 12,700 full-time employees.


                                   Regulation

     The  securities  industry  in the United  States is  subject  to  extensive
regulation  under both  Federal  and state laws.  The  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  (SEC) is the  Federal  agency  charged  with  administration  of the
Federal  securities laws. Schwab and M&S are registered as  broker-dealers  with
the SEC.  Schwab and CSIM are  registered as  investment  advisers with the SEC.
Additionally,  Schwab is regulated by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC)  with  respect  to  its  introduced   futures  and  commodities   trading
activities.
     Much  of  the   regulation  of   broker-dealers   has  been   delegated  to
self-regulatory   organizations,   principally   the  National   Association  of
Securities Dealers (NASD) and the national securities  exchanges such as the New
York Stock  Exchange  (NYSE),  which has been  designated by the SEC as Schwab's
primary regulator with respect to its securities  activities.  The NASD has been
designated by the SEC as M&S' primary  regulator  with respect to its securities
activities.  During 1997, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) was Schwab's
designated  primary  regulator with respect to options trading  activities;  the
NYSE  has been  designated  as such for 1998  and  1999.  The  National  Futures
Association has been designated by the CFTC as Schwab's  primary  regulator with
respect to its introduced  futures and  commodities  trading  activities.  These
self-regulatory  organizations  adopt  rules  (subject to approval by the SEC or
CFTC)   governing   the   industry   and  conduct   periodic   examinations   of
broker-dealers.  Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by state
securities  authorities  in the  states in which  they do  business.  Schwab was
registered as a broker-dealer in 50 states,  the District of Columbia and Puerto
Rico as of December 31, 1997. M&S was registered as a broker-dealer in 32 states
and the District of Columbia as of December 31, 1997.
     The principal purpose of regulations and discipline of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisers is the protection of customers and the securities  markets,
rather than  protection  of creditors and  stockholders  of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisers.  The  regulations to which  broker-dealers  and investment
advisers are subject  cover all aspects of the  securities  business,  including
sales methods,  trading practices among broker-dealers,  uses and safekeeping of
customers' funds and securities,  capital structure of securities firms,  record
keeping, fee arrangements,  disclosure to clients, and the conduct of directors,
officers and employees. Additional legislation,  changes in rules promulgated by
the SEC and by self-regulatory organizations or changes in the interpretation or
enforcement  of  existing  laws and  rules may  directly  affect  the  method of
operation and profitability of broker-dealers and investment advisers.  The SEC,
CFTC, self-regulatory organizations and state securities authorities may conduct
civil or administrative proceedings which can result in censure, fine, cease and
desist orders,  or suspension or 



expulsion  of  a broker-dealer  or  an  investment  adviser,  its  officers,  or
employees.  Schwab  and  M&S  have  been  the  subject  of  such  administrative
proceedings.
     In August  1996,  the SEC adopted  certain  new rules and rule  amendments,
known as the Order Handling Rules, which have  significantly  altered the manner
in which orders related to both Nasdaq and listed securities are handled.  These
rules were  implemented in phases between January 20, 1997 and October 13, 1997.
Additionally,  in June  1997,  most  major  United  States  securities  markets,
including  Nasdaq  and  the  NYSE,  began  quoting  and  trading  securities  in
increments of  one-sixteenth  dollar per share instead of one-eighth  dollar per
share for most securities,  and these markets are currently  considering further
changes to reduce the  increments by which  securities  are priced.  Mainly as a
result  of  these  regulatory  changes  and  changes  in  industry  customs  and
practices,  average  revenue per principal  transaction  declined during 1997 as
compared  to 1996.  Since the  change to trading  securities  in  increments  of
one-sixteenth dollar per share was not implemented until June 1997 and the Order
Handling  Rules were not fully  implemented  until  October  1997,  the  Company
expects M&S' average revenue per principal transaction for 1998 to be materially
less than the  average  during  substantially  all of 1997.  Recent  and  future
regulatory  changes,  changes in industry customs and practices,  and changes in
trading  systems  are  expected  to  continue  to result in  declines in average
revenue per principal  transaction,  and are expected to have a material adverse
impact on M&S' revenues and profit  margin.  See  "Management's  Discussion  and
Analysis  of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  --  Revenues  --
Principal Transactions" and "Commitments and Contingent Liabilities" note in the
Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's 1997 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.
     As registered broker-dealers and NASD member organizations,  Schwab and M&S
are  required by Federal  law to belong to the  Securities  Investor  Protection
Corporation  (SIPC),  which  provides,  in the  event  of the  liquidation  of a
broker-dealer,  protection for securities held in customer  accounts held by the
firm of up to $500,000 per  customer,  subject to a  limitation  of $100,000 for
claims of between-investment  cash balances.  SIPC is funded through assessments
on registered  broker-dealers.  In addition,  in 1997,  Schwab  purchased from a
private surety company  additional account protection of up to $99.5 million per
customer,  as defined,  for customer securities  positions only. Stocks,  bonds,
mutual funds and money market funds are considered  securities and are protected
on a  share  basis  for  the  purposes  of SIPC  protection  and the  additional
protection (i.e.,  protected securities may either be replaced or converted into
an equivalent market value as of the date a SIPC trustee is appointed).  Neither
SIPC  protection nor the additional  protection  applies to  fluctuations in the
market value of securities.
     Schwab is also authorized by the Municipal  Securities  Rulemaking Board to
conduct  transactions in municipal securities on behalf of its customers and has
obtained  certain  additional  registrations  with the SEC and state  regulatory
agencies necessary to permit it to engage in certain other activities incidental
to its brokerage business.
     Margin  lending by Schwab  and M&S is  subject  to the margin  rules of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the NYSE. Under such rules,
broker-dealers  are  limited  in the  amount  they may lend in  connection  with
certain  purchases and short sales of securities and are also required to impose
certain  maintenance  requirements  on the amount of securities and cash held in
margin  accounts.  In  addition,  those  rules and rules of the CBOE  govern the
amount of margin  customers  must  provide  and  maintain  in writing  uncovered
options.
     As a California  state-chartered trust company, CSTC is primarily regulated
by the California State Banking  Department.  Since it provides employee benefit
plan  trust  services,  CSTC  is also  required  to  comply  with  the  Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) and, consequently,  is subject to
oversight by both the Internal Revenue Service and Department of Labor.  CSTC is
required  under ERISA to maintain a fidelity bond for the protection of employee
benefit trusts for which it serves as trustee.
     Charles  Schwab  Limited,  a  subsidiary  of Schwab,  is  registered  as an
arranger with the Securities and Futures  Authority (SFA) in the United Kingdom,
and engages in business development activities on behalf of Schwab.
     Charles Schwab Europe is registered as a broker-dealer  with the SFA in the
United Kingdom.


                            Net Capital Requirements

     As registered broker-dealers, Schwab and M&S are subject to the Uniform Net
Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1)  promulgated by the SEC (the Net Capital Rule), which
has also been  adopted  through  incorporation  by  reference  in NYSE Rule 325.
Schwab is a member  firm of the NYSE and the NASD,  and M&S is a member  firm of
the NASD. The Net Capital Rule specifies minimum net capital requirements and is
designed  to  ensure  the  general   financial   soundness   and   liquidity  of
broker-dealers.  Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm
to suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and the NASD, certain punitive actions by
the SEC and  other  regulatory  bodies,  and  ultimately  may  require  a firm's
liquidation.  Because CSC itself is not a  registered  broker-dealer,  it is not
subject to the Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab failed to maintain specified
levels of net  capital,  such  failure  would  constitute a default by CSC under
certain debt covenants.



     "Net   capital"  is   essentially   defined  as  net  worth  (assets  minus
liabilities),  plus qualifying subordinated borrowings,  less certain deductions
that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and
from  conservatively  valuing  certain other assets.  These  deductions  include
charges  that  discount  the value of firm  security  positions  to reflect  the
possibility of adverse changes in market value prior to disposition.
     The Net Capital Rule requires  notice of equity  capital  withdrawals to be
provided to the SEC prior to and  subsequent to  withdrawals  exceeding  certain
sizes. Such rule prohibits  withdrawals that would reduce a broker-dealer's  net
capital to an amount less than 25% of its deductions required by the Net Capital
Rule as to its  security  positions.  The Net Capital  Rule also allows the SEC,
under limited circumstances, to restrict a broker-dealer from withdrawing equity
capital for up to 20 business days.
     Schwab and M&S have elected the  alternative  method of  calculation  under
paragraph  (a)(1)(ii) of the Net Capital Rule, which requires a broker-dealer to
maintain  minimum  net  capital  equal  to 2% of its  "aggregate  debit  items,"
computed  in  accordance   with  the  Formula  for   Determination   of  Reserve
Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act
of  1934).  "Aggregate  debit  items"  are  assets  that  have as  their  source
transactions  with  customers,  primarily  margin loans.  Under the  alternative
method of the Net Capital Rule, a  broker-dealer  may not (a) pay, or permit the
payment or withdrawal of, any subordinated  borrowings or (b) pay cash dividends
or permit equity  capital to be removed if, after giving effect to such payment,
withdrawal,  or removal,  its net capital would be less than 5% of its aggregate
debit items.
     Under NYSE Rule 326,  Schwab is required to reduce its  business if its net
capital is less than 4% of  aggregate  debit items for more than 15  consecutive
business  days;  NYSE Rule 326 also  prohibits  the expansion of business if net
capital is less than 5% of  aggregate  debit items for more than 15  consecutive
business days. The provisions of NYSE Rule 326 also become  operative if capital
withdrawals  (including scheduled  maturities of subordinated  borrowings during
the following six months) would result in a reduction of a firm's net capital to
the levels indicated.
     If compliance  with  applicable net capital rules were to limit Schwab's or
M&S'  operations  and their ability to repay  subordinated  debt to CSC, this in
turn could limit CSC's  ability to repay debt,  pay cash  dividends and purchase
shares of its outstanding  stock. See  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Results of Operations and Financial Condition -- Liquidity and Capital Resources
- --  Liquidity" in the Company's  1997 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     At December 31, 1997,  Schwab was required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net Capital Rule of $156 million and had total  regulatory net capital
of $823 million. At December 31, 1997, the amounts in excess of 2%, 4% and 5% of
aggregate  debit  items  were  $667  million,  $512  million  and $434  million,
respectively.
     At December  31,  1997,  M&S was  required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net Capital Rule of $1 million and had total regulatory net capital of
$5 million.  At December 31, 1997, the amount in excess of its minimum  required
net capital was $4 million.


Item 2.       Properties

     The Company's corporate  headquarters are located in a 28-story building at
101  Montgomery  Street in San  Francisco,  California.  The  building  contains
296,000  square feet and is leased by Schwab  under a term  expiring in the year
2010.  Schwab has three successive  five-year options to renew the lease at then
current  market rates.  In 1997,  Schwab entered into a lease for 396,000 square
feet of office space  located at 211 Main Street in San  Francisco,  California.
The lease  expires in 2018 and includes two ten-year  extension  options at then
current market rates. In addition to these  locations,  Schwab also leases space
in  other  buildings  for  its  San  Francisco  operations  aggregating  755,000
additional square feet at year-end 1997. M&S' headquarters are located in leased
office space in Jersey City, New Jersey.
     All of the  Company's  branch  offices  are  located  in  leased  premises,
generally with lease expiration dates five to ten years from inception.
     The Company has four  regional  customer  telephone  service  centers.  The
Company  owns the  service  centers  located in Phoenix and  Indianapolis,  with
330,000 and 164,000  square feet,  respectively.  The Company leases the service
centers  located in Orlando and Denver,  with  217,000 and 163,000  square feet,
respectively.
     The Company owns its primary data center  facility  located in Phoenix with
105,000 square feet.


Item 3.       Legal Proceedings

     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth
under the  caption  "Commitments  and  Contingent  Liabilities"  in the Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1997  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of
              Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 1997.



                                     PART II


Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common
              Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     The Company's  common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific  Exchange
under the ticker symbol SCH. The number of common  stockholders  of record as of
March 12, 1998 was 6,667.
     The other information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set
forth under the caption  "Quarterly  Financial  Information  (Unaudited)" in the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by
reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 6.       Selected Financial Data

     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth
under the caption "Selected  Financial and Operating Data" in the Company's 1997
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 7.       Management's Discussion and
              Analysis of Financial Condition and
              Results of Operations

     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial  Condition" in the Company's  1997 Annual Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Average  balances  and  interest rates for the fourth  quarters of 1997 and
1996 are  summarized  as follows  (dollars in millions):



     The increase in interest revenue, net of interest expense,  from the fourth
quarter of 1996 to the fourth quarter of 1997 was primarily due to higher levels
of average earning assets.


Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative
              Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations
and Financial  Condition -- Market Risk" in the Company's  1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 8.       Financial Statements and
              Supplementary Data

     The information required to be furnished pursuant to this item is set forth
in the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  and  under the  caption  "Quarterly
Financial  Information  (Unaudited)"  in the  Company's  1997  Annual  Report to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.



Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with 
              Accountants on Accounting and
              Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III


Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of
              the Registrant

     The  information  relating  to  directors  of the  Company  required  to be
furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by reference from portions of
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be filed  with the SEC  pursuant  to  Regulation  14A  within  120 days after
December  31,  1997 (the  Proxy  Statement)  under the  captions  "The  Board of
Directors"  and  "Principal  Stockholders."  Information  regarding  Lawrence J.
Stupski has been omitted from the Proxy Statement,  pursuant to Instruction 3 to
Item 401(a) of  Regulation  S-K,  due to his  retirement  as Vice  Chairman  and
Director effective January 1998 and May 1998, respectively.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  following  table  provides  certain  information  about  each  of  the
Company's  current  executive  officers.  Executive  officers are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. However, Mr. Schwab
has an employment  agreement with the Company through March 2001, which includes
an automatic  renewal  feature that, as of each March 31,  extends the agreement
for an additional year unless either party elects to not extend the agreement.






    
     Mr. Schwab has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January
1, 1998, and Chairman and a director of the Company since its  incorporation  in
1986. Mr. Schwab was Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company from 1986 to 1997.
Mr. Schwab was a founder of Schwab in 1971 and has been its Chairman since 1978.
Mr. Schwab is currently a director of The Gap, Inc.,  Transamerica  Corporation,
Siebel Systems, Inc., AirTouch Communications, Inc. and a trustee of The Charles
Schwab  Family of Funds,  Schwab  Investments,  Schwab  Capital Trust and Schwab
Annuity Portfolios, all registered investment companies.

     Mr.  Pottruck  has been  Co-Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company  since
January 1, 1998,  Chief  Operating  Officer and a director of the Company  since
1994,  and  President  of the Company  since 1992.  Mr.  Pottruck has been Chief
Executive  Officer of Schwab since 1992 and was President of Schwab from 1988 to
1997. Mr.  Pottruck  joined Schwab in 1984. Mr. Pottruck was named a director of
Decibel  Instruments,  Inc.,  McKesson  Corporation and Preview Travel,  Inc. in
1997.

     Mr. McCarthy has been President and Chief  Operating  Officer of Schwab and
First Executive Vice President of the Company since September 1997. Mr. McCarthy
was Executive Vice President - Financial Products and International Group of the
Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1997,  and was Executive Vice President - Mutual
Funds of the Company and Schwab and Chief Executive Officer of CSIM from 1995 to
1997. Before joining Schwab in 1995, Mr. McCarthy was Chief Executive Officer of
Jardine Fleming Unit Trusts Ltd., a mutual fund company, from 1994 to 1995. From
1987 to 1994,  Mr.  McCarthy  held various  executive  positions  with  Fidelity
Investments,   including  President  of  Fidelity   Investments  Advisor  Group,
President of National Financial Institutional Services and Executive Director of
Fidelity Brokerage Group.

     Ms.  Chang has been  Enterprise  President - General  Investor  Services of
Schwab and Executive Vice President of the Company since October 1997. Ms. Chang
was Executive  Vice  President - Retail Branch Network of the Company and Schwab
from 1996 to 1997 and  Senior  Vice  President  - Retail  Branch  Network of the
Company and Schwab from 



1994 to 1996.  Prior to joining Schwab in 1994,  Ms. Chang was Senior  Marketing
Vice President of American Express Company from 1989 to 1994.

     Mr.  Coghlan has been  Enterprise  President - Retirement  Plan Services of
Schwab since  October 1997 and  Executive  Vice  President of the Company  since
1992. Mr. Coghlan was Executive Vice President of Schwab and General  Manager of
Schwab  Institutional  from 1992 to 1997.  Mr.  Coghlan  joined  Schwab in 1986,
became Vice President in 1988 and became Senior Vice President in 1990.

     Ms. Deily has been Enterprise  President - Services for Investment Managers
of Schwab and Executive  Vice  President of the Company since October 1997.  Ms.
Deily was Executive Vice President and General Manager - Services for Investment
Managers of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1997.  Before  joining Schwab in
1996,  Ms. Deily was Chairman,  President and Chief  Executive  Officer of First
Interstate Bank of Texas from 1991 to 1996.

     Mr. Gorman has been  Enterprise  President - Capital Markets and Trading of
Schwab and Executive  Vice  President of the Company  since  October  1997.  Mr.
Gorman was Executive Vice President - Capital Markets and Trading of the Company
and Schwab from 1996 to 1997.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1996, Mr. Gorman was a
Managing Director of Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation from 1988 to 1996.

     Mr. Leemon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy  Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1995.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1995,  Mr. Leemon
held various  positions  with The Boston  Consulting  Group,  Inc., a management
consulting firm, from 1989 to 1995, including Vice President from 1990.

     Ms. Lepore has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information  Officer
of the  Company and Schwab  since 1993.  Ms.  Lepore  joined  Schwab in 1983 and
became Senior Vice President in 1989.

     Ms.  Lyons has been  Enterprise  President  - Retail  Investor  Specialized
Services of Schwab and  Executive  Vice  President of the Company  since October
1997. Ms. Lyons was Executive  Vice President - Retail  Marketing of the Company
and Schwab  from 1996 to 1997 and Senior Vice  President - Active  Trader of the
Company and Schwab  from 1994 to 1996.  Ms.  Lyons was Senior  Vice  President -
Retail  Service  Delivery of the Company and Schwab from 1993 to 1994 and Senior
Vice  President - Retail  Marketing of the Company and Schwab from 1992 to 1993.
Ms. Lyons joined Schwab in 1992.

     Mr. Sasson has been Enterprise  President - Electronic  Brokerage of Schwab
and Executive  Vice President of the Company since November 1997. Mr. Sasson was
Senior Vice President - Electronic Brokerage of the Company and Schwab from 1995
to 1997.  Before  joining  Schwab  in 1995,  Mr.  Sasson  was Vice  President  -
Information Services of International Business Machines Corporation in 1995. Mr.
Sasson was Vice President, Systems Engineering of FYI Online, a joint venture of
MCI Communications Corporation and Equifax, Inc., from 1992 to 1995.

     Mr. Scheid has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1996. Before joining Schwab in 1996, Mr. Scheid was
Executive  Vice  President of Finance of First  Interstate  Bancorp from 1994 to
1996 and was Principal  Financial  Officer from 1995 to 1996. From 1990 to 1994,
Mr. Scheid was Chief Financial Officer of First Interstate Bank of Texas.

     Mr. Seip has been Enterprise  President - Mutual Funds and International of
Schwab and Executive Vice President of the Company since October 1997, and Chief
Executive  Officer of CSIM since  December  1997.  Mr. Seip was  Executive  Vice
President - Retail  Brokerage  of the Company and Schwab from 1994 to 1997.  Mr.
Seip was President of CSIM from 1992 to 1994 and Chief Operating Officer of CSIM
from 1991 to 1994.  From 1992 to 1994,  Mr. Seip was Executive  Vice President -
Mutual  Funds and Fixed  Income  Products of the  Company  and Schwab.  Mr. Seip
joined Schwab in 1983.

     Mr.  Valencia has been Executive  Vice  President and Chief  Administrative
Officer of the Company and Schwab since 1996.  From 1994 to 1996,  Mr.  Valencia
was Executive Vice President - Human Resources of the Company and Schwab. Before
joining Schwab in 1994, Mr. Valencia served as a Managing Director of Commercial
Credit Company, a subsidiary of Travelers Group Inc. engaged in consumer finance
for Travelers  Group Inc.,  from 1993 to 1994.  From 1975 to 1993, Mr.  Valencia
held various  positions with Citicorp,  including  President and Chief Executive
Officer of Transaction Technology, a subsidiary of Citicorp, from 1990 to 1993.



Item 11.      Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  
is incorporated  by  reference  from  portions  of the  Proxy  Statement  
under the captions "Director  Compensation," "Executive Compensation," 
"Employment and Severance Agreements,"  "Executive  Compensation Table," 
"Option Grants," "Options Exercised" and "Certain Transactions."

Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Bene-
              ficial Owners and Management

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under the caption
"Principal Stockholders."


Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related
              Transactions

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by  reference  from a  portion  of the Proxy  Statement  under the
caption "Certain Transactions."


                                     PART IV


Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement
              Schedules and Reports on Form
              8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this Report

     1. Financial Statements

     The financial statements and independent  auditors' report are set forth in
the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report and are listed below:

         Consolidated Statement of Income
         Consolidated Balance Sheet
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         Independent Auditors' Report

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statement schedules required to be furnished pursuant to this
item are listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     On December 24, 1997,  the  Registrant  filed a Current  Report on Form 8-K
relating  to  (i)  fourth  quarter  and  year-end  expected  earnings  and  (ii)
announcement of the settlement of certain class-action litigation.





(c)  Exhibits

     The exhibits  listed below are filed as part of this annual  report on Form
10-K.



Exhibit
Number                        Exhibit
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 3.7    Third Restated  Certificate of Incorporation, as amended on May 6, 1996,
of the Registrant,  filed as  Exhibit 3.7 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

 3.8    Second Restated Bylaws, as amended on July 17, 1996, of the  Registrant,
filed  as  Exhibit  3.8 to the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended
September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

 4.2   Neither the Registrant nor its subsidiaries are parties to any instrument
with respect to long-term debt for which securities authorized thereunder exceed
10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis.  Copies of  instruments  with respect to long-term debt of lesser amounts
will be provided to the SEC upon request.

10.4    Form  of  Release  Agreement  dated  as of  March 31,  1987  among  BAC,
Registrant,  Schwab  Holdings, Inc.,  Charles  Schwab  &  Co., Inc.  and  former
shareholders of Schwab Holdings, Inc.                                          *

10.20   License  Agreements dated  April 18,  1979 and April  11,  1983  between
International Business Machines Corporation and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.     *

10.22   License Agreement  dated  as of  February 28, 1979  between Applied Data
Research, Inc. and Beta Systems, Inc. and Assignment, dated February 21, 1979. *

10.23   License  Agreement dated  as of February 21, 1979  between Beta Systems,
Inc. and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                                            *

10.25   333 Bush Street Office Lease dated July 29, 1987 between 333 Bush Street
Associates and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                                      *

10.34   Form of Indemnification  Agreement entered into between  Registrant  and
certain members of the Board of Directors of Registrant,  filed as Exhibit 10.34
to the  Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the  year  ended  December  31,  1993  and
incorporated herein by reference.

10.57   Registration  Rights and Stock Restriction Agreement, dated as of  March
31, 1987, between the Registrant and the holders of the Common  Stock,  filed as
Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-16192 on Form S-1 and
incorporated herein by reference.

10.72   Restatement of  Assignment and  License,  as  amended  January 25, 1988,
among Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., Charles R. Schwab and the Registrant, filed as
Exhibit 10.72 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994
and incorporated herein by reference.  

10.87   Trust Agreement  under  the  Charles Schwab  Profit Sharing and Employee
Stock Ownership Plan,  effective November 1, 1990, dated October 25, 1990, filed
as Exhibit 10.87 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.



10.101  First Amendment to the Trust  Agreement  under the Charles Schwab Profit
Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership  Plan,  effective  January 1, 1992,  dated
December 20, 1991, filed as Exhibit 10.101 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.116  Second Amendment to the Trust  Agreement  for the Charles  Schwab Profit
Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan effective July 1, 1992, dated June 30,
1992,  filed as Exhibit  10.116 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter
ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.120  ESOP  Loan  Agreement,  effective  as  of  January  19,  1993,   between
Registrant and  The  Charles  Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership
Plan and Trust.                                                                +

10.132  Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc. Long-Term  Incentive  Plan  III, as Amended,
effective January 1, 1994, filed as Exhibit 10.132 to Registrant's Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.         +

10.138  Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement for Non-Employee  Directors,
filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Registrant's  Registration Statement No. 33-47842 on
Form S-8 and incorporated herein by reference.                                 +

10.140  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Agreement,  filed  as  Exhibit  4.6  to the
Registrant's  Registration  Statement No. 33-54701 on Form S-8 and  incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.143  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock Option Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.143 to
the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  September  30,  1994 and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.144  Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.144 to the
Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.146  Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance  Plan  dated as of January 1,
1995, filed as Exhibit 10.146 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.                        +

10.147  Corporate Executive Bonus Plan dated as of January 1, 1995 (formerly the
Annual Executive Bonus Plan),  filed as Exhibit 10.147 to the Registrant's  Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.+

10.149  Employment Agreement  dated  as of March 31, 1995 between the Registrant
and Charles R. Schwab, filed as Exhibit 10.149 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.         +

10.152  The Charles Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan,
amended  July 6, 1995,  effective  January  1, 1995 and April 1, 1995,  filed as
Exhibit 10.152 in the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995
and incorporated herein by reference.                                          +



10.155  Forms of Restricted Share Award  Agreements,  incorporating  performance
vesting provisions and/or supplemental cash payment provisions, filed as Exhibit
10.155 in the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September 30, 1995
and incorporated herein by reference.                                          +

10.156  Agreement of Sale, dated as of September 18, 1995, as amended  by letter
agreement dated September 21, 1995 and by Second  Amendment to Agreement of Sale
dated September 22, 1995,  between American Express Company and Charles Schwab &
Co., Inc., regarding American Express Western Regional Operations Center located
at 2423  Lincoln  Drive,  Phoenix,  Arizona,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.156  in the
Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated
herein by reference.

10.157  The Charles Schwab Corporation  Directors'  Deferred  Compensation Plan,
effective January 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.157 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.     +

10.158  Credit  Agreement dated  June 28, 1996  between the  Registrant and  the
banks listed therein, filed as Exhibit 10.158 to the  Registrant's Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.159  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer  Stock  Option Plan
(1987), as amended  September 17, 1996, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock Option
Agreement  (Executive  Officer  Stock  Option Plan  (1987))  attached,  filed as
Exhibit 10.159 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1996 and incorporated herein by reference.                                     +

10.160  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987  Stock  Option  Plan,  as amended
September 17, 1996, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement  (General
Management Plan) attached (supersedes Exhibit 10.73), filed as Exhibit 10.160 to
the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  September  30,  1996 and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.161  The Charles  Schwab Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive  Plan, as amended
September 17, 1996 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.141),  filed as Exhibit 10.161 to the
Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.162  The Charles Schwab Corporation  Deferred  Compensation  Plan, as amended
September 17, 1996,  filed as Exhibit 10.162 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.     +

10.163  Lease of 101 Montgomery  Street  between 101  Montgomery  Street Co. and
Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. dated October 8, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.163 to the
Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1996 and  incorporated
herein by reference.



10.164  Office Lease of Pacific  Telesis  Center  Telesis  Tower  between  Post-
Montgomery  Associates  and  Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc.  dated October 4, 1996,
filed as  Exhibit  10.164  to the  Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended
December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.166  The Charles Schwab Corporation 1987 Executive Officer Stock Option Plan,
restated  to  include  amendments  through  February  26,  1997,  with  form  of
Non-Qualified  Stock  Option  Agreement  (Executive  Officer  Stock  Option Plan
(1987))  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.159) filed as Exhibit 10.166 to the
Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  March 31, 1997 and  incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.167  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan,  restated to
include amendments  through February 26, 1997, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock
Option Agreement  attached,  (supersedes Exhibit 10.160) filed as Exhibit 10.167
to the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  March  31,  1997  and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.168  Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan, as
amended through December 13, 1996  (supersedes  Exhibit 10.152) filed as Exhibit
10.168 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.169  Third Amendment to the Trust  Agreement  for the Charles  Schwab  Profit
Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1996,  dated May
8, 1996 filed as Exhibit  10.169 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                      +

10.170  The Charles Schwab Corporation  1992 Stock Incentive Plan Restated as of
May 12,  1997  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.161)  filed  as  Exhibit  10.170  to the
Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30,  1997 and  incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.171  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of   The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation   1992  Stock  Incentive  Plan   (supersedes   Exhibit  4.6  to  the
Registrant's  Registration  Statement No. 33-54701 on Form S-8) filed as Exhibit
10.171 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.172  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive  Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.143) filed as
Exhibit 10.172 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997
and incorporated herein by reference.                                          +

10.173  Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option and Performance  Unit Agreement of The
Charles Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan filed as Exhibit 10.173 to
the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.174  Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option   Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive  Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.144) filed as
Exhibit 10.174 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997
and incorporated herein by reference.                                          +



10.175  Form of Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  with  performance  vesting
conditions  of  The  Charles  Schwab   Corporation  1992  Stock  Incentive  Plan
(supersedes  Exhibit  10.155) filed as Exhibit 10.175 to the  Registrant's  Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference. +

10.176  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1987 Stock  Option Plan  (supersedes  Form of  Non-Qualified  Stock
Option  Agreement in Exhibit 10.167) filed as Exhibit 10.176 to the Registrant's
Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
reference.                                                                     +

10.177  Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option   Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit 10.177 to the  Registrant's
Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
reference.                                                                     +

10.178  Form  of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit 10.178 to the  Registrant's
Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
reference.                                                                     +

10.179  Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement  of  The Charles  Schwab
Corporation  1987  Executive  Officer  Stock  Option  Plan  (supersedes  Form of
Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement in Exhibit 10.166) filed as Exhibit 10.179
to the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for  the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997  and
incorporated herein by reference.                                              +

10.180  Form  of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit 10.180 to
the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997 and incorporated
herein by reference.                                                           +

10.181  Commercial  office lease of 211 Main Street between  Main Plaza, LLC and
Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc.  dated August 8, 1997 filed as Exhibit 10.181 to the
Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 and incorporated
herein by reference.

10.182  The Charles Schwab Corporation  Corporate  Executive Bonus Plan, amended
and restated,  effective  January 1, 1996  (supersedes  Exhibit 10.147) filed as
Exhibit 10.182 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                                     +

10.185  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation   Senior  Executive  Severance  Policy,
effective December 7, 1995 filed as Exhibit 10.185 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference. +

10.186  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987  Stock  Option  Plan, as amended
October 22, 1997,  with  form of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement (General
Management Plan) attached (supersedes Exhibit 10.160).                         +

10.187  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock  Incentive Plan (Restated to
include Amendments  through October 22, 1997) (supersedes  Exhibit 10.170 to the
Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997).                   +



10.188  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer  Stock  Option Plan
(1987),  as amended  October 22, 1997, with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option
Agreement  (Executive  Officer  Stock  Option Plan (1987)  attached  (supersedes
Exhibit 10.159).                                                               +

10.189  Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance  Plan  as  amended January 1,
1998.                                                                          +

10.190  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Employee  Stock  Incentive  Plan dated
October 22, 1997.                                                              +

10.191  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of   The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.171).             +

10.192  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock  Option  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.172).             +

10.193  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock Option and Performance Unit Agreement of The
Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1992  Stock  Incentive  Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit
10.173).                                                                       +

10.194  Form of  Incentive  Stock  Option   Agreement  of   The  Charles  Schwab
Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes Exhibit 10.174).             +

10.195  Charles Schwab  Profit  Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan, as
amended through December 1, 1997 (supersedes Exhibit 10.168).                  +

11.1    Computation of Earnings Per Share.

12.1    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.1    Portions  of  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1997  Annual  Report to
Stockholders,  which have been incorporated herein by reference. Except for such
portions, such annual report is not deemed to be "filed" herewith.

21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1    Independent Auditors' Consent.

27.1    Financial Data Schedule (electronic only).

27.2    Restated Financial Data Schedule (electronic only).

27.3    Restated Financial Data Schedule (electronic only).

* Incorporated by reference to the identically-numbered exhibit to  Registrant's
  Registration  Statement  No. 33-16192 on  Form S-1,  as  amended  and declared
  effective on September 22, 1987.

+ Management contract or compensatory plan.






                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 27, 1998.

                                            THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                                                     (Registrant)
                                        BY: /s/ CHARLES R. SCHWAB
                                            -------------------------
                                            Charles R. Schwab
                                            Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer
                                              and Director

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated, on March 27, 1998.

      Signature                           Title
      ---------                           -----

/s/ CHARLES R. SCHWAB          Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer
- -----------------------           and Director
Charles R. Schwab              (principal executive officer)

/s/ DAVID S. POTTRUCK          Co-Chief Executive Officer,
- ------------------------         Chief Operating Officer, President and Director
David S. Pottruck              (principal executive officer)

/s/ STEVEN L. SCHEID           Executive Vice President
- ------------------------         and Chief Financial Officer
Steven L. Scheid               (principal financial and accounting officer)

/s/ NANCY H. BECHTLE           Director
- ------------------------
Nancy H. Bechtle

/s/ C. PRESTON BUTCHER         Director
- ------------------------
C. Preston Butcher

/s/ DONALD G. FISHER           Director
- ------------------------
Donald G. Fisher

/s/ ANTHONY M. FRANK           Director
- ------------------------
Anthony M. Frank

/s/ FRANK C. HERRINGER         Director
- ------------------------
Frank C. Herringer

/s/ STEPHEN T. McLIN           Director
- ------------------------
Stephen T. McLin

/s/ GEORGE P. SHULTZ           Director
- ------------------------
George P. Shultz

/s/ LAWRENCE J. STUPSKI        Director
- ------------------------
Lawrence J. Stupski

/s/ ROGER O. WALTHER           Director
- ------------------------
Roger O. Walther





                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                     Index to Financial Statement Schedules


                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----


Independent Auditors' Report                                              F-2

Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
                     Condensed Balance Sheet                              F-3
                     Condensed Statement of Income                        F-4
                     Condensed Statement of Cash Flows                    F-5
                     Notes to Condensed Financial Statements              F-6

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                           F-7









Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions  under
which they are required or because the  information is included in the Company's
consolidated  financial statements and notes in the Company's 1997 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


                                      F-1





INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT
- ------------------------------





To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
     The Charles Schwab Corporation:



We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The Charles  Schwab
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and
for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  1997,  and have
issued our report thereon dated February 23, 1998; such  consolidated  financial
statements  and report are included in your 1997 Annual  Report to  Stockholders
and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the financial
statement  schedules of the Company  appearing  on pages F-3 through F-7.  These
financial   statement   schedules  are  the   responsibility  of  the  Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation  to
the basic consolidated financial  statements taken as a whole, present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.






DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
San Francisco, California
February 23, 1998


                                      F-2



                        



                                                                    F-3



                                              


                                                               F-4





                                                                   F-5





                                               
                                                                      SCHEDULE I


                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                     Notes to Condensed Financial Statements


1.   Introduction and basis of presentation

     The condensed financial  statements of  The Charles Schwab Corporation (the
     Parent  Company)  should  be  read in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated
     financial  statements of The Charles Schwab  Corporation  and  subsidiaries
     (the Company) and notes  thereto found in the Company's  1997 Annual Report
     to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No.
     13.1 of this report.

2.   Supplemental cash flow information

     Certain information affecting the cash flows of the Parent Company  follows
     (in thousands):



3.   Common stock split

     The  Company's  Board of Directors  declared a  three-for-two  common stock
     split,  distributed  September  1997,  effected  in  the  form  of a  stock
     dividend.


                                       F-6




                                             


                                                             F-7


