
10-K
0001.txt
2000 FORM 10-K






                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington D.C. 20549


                                    FORM 10-K


                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000        Commission file number 1-9700



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


            Delaware                                    94-3025021
  (State or other jurisdiction           (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
of incorporation or organization)

                   120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108
              (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
    -------------------               -----------------------------------------

Common Stock - $.01 par value          New York Stock Exchange
                                       Pacific Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x  No
                                      ---   ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of March 8, 2001,  the  aggregate  market  value of the voting  stock held by
nonaffiliates  of the  registrant  was  $21,677,279,403.  For  purposes  of this
information,  the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock owned by  directors  and
executive officers of the registrant,  and certain investment  companies managed
by Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,  Inc. were deemed to be shares of the
voting stock held by affiliates.

The  number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  outstanding  as of March 8, 2001 was
1,386,965,389* shares.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate certain information contained in the
registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders by reference to portions of that
document.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates certain information contained
in the  registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its  annual  meeting  of
stockholders to be held May 7, 2001 by reference to portions of that document.

* Reflects the May 2000 three-for-two common stock split.







                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION


                                     PART I


Item 1.       Business

(a) General Development of Business

                                   The Company

     The Charles Schwab  Corporation (CSC) was incorporated in 1986 and engages,
through  its  subsidiaries,   in  securities  brokerage  and  related  financial
services.  In this report,  the  "Company"  refers to CSC and its  subsidiaries.
Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc.  (Schwab) is a securities  broker-dealer,  which was
incorporated in 1971, and entered the discount  brokerage business in 1974. U.S.
Trust Corporation (USTC, and with its subsidiaries  collectively  referred to as
U.S. Trust), which merged with CSC on May 31, 2000, is an investment  management
firm that  through its  subsidiaries  provides  fiduciary  services  and private
banking services.
     Other  subsidiaries  of CSC include Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,
Inc.  (CSIM),  Schwab  Capital  Markets L.P.  (SCM),  CyBerCorp  Holdings,  Inc.
(CyBerCorp) and The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC).  CSIM,  incorporated in
1989, acts as the investment advisor for Schwab's  proprietary mutual funds. The
Company refers to certain funds for which CSIM is the investment  advisor as the
SchwabFunds(R).  SCM, a subsidiary acquired in 1991, is a market maker in Nasdaq
and  other   securities   providing  trade  execution   services   primarily  to
broker-dealers and institutional  clients.  CyBerCorp,  a subsidiary acquired on
March 1, 2000, is an electronic  trading technology and brokerage firm providing
Internet-based  services to highly active, online investors.  CSTC, incorporated
in 1992, serves as trustee for employee benefit plans, primarily 401(k) plans.
     CSC's  international  subsidiaries  include Charles Schwab Europe (CSE) - a
retail  securities  brokerage  firm  acquired  in 1995 and located in the United
Kingdom and Charles Schwab Canada, Co. (CS Canada) - acquired in 1998 to provide
financial services to Canadian  investors.  CSC's  international  joint ventures
include  Charles Schwab Tokio Marine  Securities  Co., Ltd.  (CSTMS) - formed in
1999 to provide retail brokerage and investment  services to residents of Japan,
and Charles Schwab Australia Pty Ltd. (CS Australia) - formed in 2000 to provide
financial services to investors in Australia and New Zealand.


                              Business Combinations

     On May 31, 2000, CSC completed its merger (the Merger) with USTC. Under the
terms of the merger agreement,  USTC became a wholly owned subsidiary of CSC and
USTC  shareholders  received 5.1405 shares of CSC's common stock for each common
share of USTC. The Merger was treated as a non-taxable  stock-for-stock exchange
and  USTC's  shareholders  received  approximately  112,000,000  shares of CSC's
common  stock.  Upon  completion of the Merger,  CSC became a financial  holding
company,  which is a type of bank holding  company  subject to  supervision  and
regulation  by the Board of Governors  of the Federal  Reserve  System  (Federal
Reserve Board) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the Act).
The financial information in this report gives retroactive effect to the Merger,
which was  accounted  for as a pooling of  interests.  The pooling of  interests
method of accounting requires the restatement of all periods presented as if CSC
and USTC had been  operating as a combined  entity  during such  periods.  Share
information  presented  throughout  this report has been restated to reflect the
common shares issued to USTC  shareholders  pursuant to the exchange ratio under
the terms of the merger agreement.
     On  March  1,  2000,  the  Company  acquired  CyBerCorp  in  a  non-taxable
stock-for-stock exchange. Pursuant to the acquisition, CyBerCorp became a wholly
owned  subsidiary  of CSC which  resulted in  17,570,000  shares of CSC's common
stock and 3,077,000 options to purchase CSC common stock being exchanged for all
of the outstanding shares,  options and equity rights of CyBerCorp.  Because the
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method,  the operating  results
of CyBerCorp are included in the  consolidated  results of the Company since the
acquisition  date.  The  historical  results of  CyBerCorp  are not  included in
periods prior to the acquisition.
     On November 14, 2000, the Company  acquired Chicago  Investment  Analytics,
Inc., a private research firm, to help expand Schwab's research  offerings.  The
acquisition was treated as a non-taxable  stock-for-stock exchange and accounted
for using the purchase method.


                          New Developments During 2000

     The Company  responds  to changing  client  needs with  continued  product,
technology and service  innovations.  During 2000:
o  Schwab  launched  the  Schwab  Portfolio   Consultation(TM),   a  package  of
   analytical  services  and  individual  consultations  with Schwab  investment
   specialists designed to assist clients in evaluating their asset allocations.
o  Schwab entered into a global financial services alliance with AOL Time Warner
   Inc. (AOL) to provide investment  information,  tools and assistance to AOL's
   users and to enable Schwab to reach  potential  clients.  Under the alliance,
   Schwab  and  AOL  are  expected  to  engage  in a  series  of  marketing  and
   promotional   programs  and  both   companies  are  expected  to  incorporate
   co-branded initiatives into their ongoing marketing efforts.
o  Schwab introduced PocketBroker(TM), a wireless investing service that enables
   U.S. clients to access their account information or place an equity order via
   PalmPilot(TM),  RIM Wireless  Handheld(TM) pager and Internet-ready  cellular
   phones.
o  Schwab began offering clients and potential clients referrals to U.S. Trust's
   investment management,  trust and private banking capabilities as part of the
   AdvisorSource(R)  referral services program. Schwab created a special version
   of the Schwab Signature Services(TM) offering for U.S. Trust clients who want
   to utilize Schwab's products and services.
o  Schwab  introduced   Administrative  Trustee  Services,  a  program  enabling
   independent   investment  managers,   through  U.S.  Trust,  to  offer  trust
   administration services to their clients.
o  Schwab  invested  in and formed an alliance  with  E-LOAN,  Inc.,  to provide
   Schwab  clients  with  online  access to  E-LOAN's  broad  choice of mortgage
   products,  as well as online  rate  search  and loan  comparison,  selection,
   application   and  tracking   services,   all  supported  by  trained  client
   representatives.
o  As  part  of its  participation  in  the  REDIBook  ECN  LLC  (REDIBook),  an
   electronic  communication network (ECN), Schwab launched a pre-market trading
   session,  as well as  introduced  a series of  enhancements  to its  existing
   after-hours trading session.
o  The Company's joint venture in Japan,  CSTMS,  commenced  business and opened
   two branch offices in Tokyo, Japan.
o  Through a joint venture with ecorp  Limited,  the Company formed CS Australia
   to provide financial services to investors in Australia and New Zealand.
o  Schwab launched a Spanish-language  Web site that  serves Hispanic clients in
   the U.S., the Caribbean, and Central and South  America. Additionally, Schwab
   introduced a Korean-language Web site and enhanced  its Chinese-language  Web
   site, both of which  provide  information  about the U.S.  financial  markets
   and Schwab products and services.


                                   Stock Split

     In May 2000, the Company effected a three-for-two common stock split in the
form of a 50% stock dividend.  Share information throughout this report has been
restated to reflect the common stock split.


                                Subsequent Events

     RESTRUCTURING.  On  March  22,  2001,  the  Company  announced  that due to
continued economic  uncertainties and difficult market  conditions,  it plans to
take additional steps to reduce expenses. These steps include reducing full-time
equivalent  employees  at the  Company  by 2,750 to 3,400,  or 11% to 13%.  This
workforce  reduction includes mandatory staff reductions totaling 2,000 to 2,300
full-time  employees  and 150 to 200  contractors  during the second  quarter of
2001, as well as 600 to 900 full-time employees during the remainder of the year
through voluntary  attrition.  The Company is also evaluating a reduction in its
existing  administrative office space, as well as the removal of certain systems
hardware from service.
     The Company expects to recognize a pre-tax charge of $70 to $100 million in
the second quarter of 2001 to reflect this restructuring.  The Company estimates
that the  restructuring  will reduce pre-tax  expenses by $40 to $45 million per
quarter,  commencing  in the  third  quarter  of  2001.  Additionally,  employee
attrition  is  estimated  to result in pre-tax  savings of about $10 million per
quarter beginning in 2002.

     SHARE REPURCHASES. On March 21, 2001, the Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to 20 million  shares of CSC's common stock.  The shares may be
repurchased  through open market or privately  negotiated  transactions based on
prevailing market conditions.

(b) Financial Information About Segments

     The  Company  provides  financial  services to  individuals,  institutional
clients  and  broker-dealers   through  four  segments  -  Individual  Investor,
Institutional Investor,  Capital Markets and U.S. Trust. The Individual Investor
segment includes the Company's domestic and international retail operations. The
Institutional Investor segment provides custodial,  trading and support services
to independent  investment managers, and serves company 401(k) plan sponsors and
third-party administrators. The Capital Markets segment provides trade execution
services  in  Nasdaq,   exchange-listed   and  other  securities   primarily  to
broker-dealers  and  institutional  clients.  The U.S.  Trust  segment  provides
investment  management,  fiduciary  services  and  private  banking  services to
individual and institutional  clients. For financial  information by segment and
geographic  area,  and for  revenues  by major  client for the three years ended
December  31,  2000,  see  note  "21 -  Segment  Information"  in the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.

(c) Narrative Description of Business

     The Company's primary focus is serving retail investors in the U.S., either
directly or through independent  investment managers, who want access to a broad
selection of products and services,  as well as investment news and information,
tailored to meet their financial needs. The Company,  through its  subsidiaries,
serves 7.5 million  active client  accounts(a).  Client assets in these accounts
totaled $871.7 billion at December 31, 2000.


- --------
(a) Accounts with balances or activity within the preceding eight months.


     The  Company's  strategy is to attract and retain client assets by focusing
on a number of areas within the financial  services industry - retail brokerage,
support   services  for   independent   investment   managers,   401(k)  defined
contribution plans, equity securities  market-making,  mutual funds,  investment
management,  fiduciary  services  and private  banking  services.  To pursue its
strategy and its objective of long-term  profitable growth, the Company plans to
continue  leveraging  its  competitive  advantages.   These  advantages  include
nationally   recognized   brands,  a  broad  range  of  products  and  services,
multi-channel  delivery systems and an ongoing  investment in technology.  While
the Company's business continues to be predominantly  conducted in the U.S., the
Company intends to continue to selectively expand its international presence.
     The table below shows the  Company's  sources of revenues on a  comparative
basis for the three years ended December 31, 2000.




                       Advertising and Marketing Programs

     The Company's  worldwide  advertising  and marketing  programs  support its
strategy by continually reinforcing the strengths and key attributes of Schwab's
full-service  offering,  CyBerCorp's  trading technology and U.S. Trust's wealth
management  services.  By  maintaining  a consistent  level of visibility in the
marketplace,  the Company seeks to establish Schwab, CyBerCorp and U.S. Trust as
leading financial  services brands in a focused and  cost-effective  manner. The
Company  primarily  uses a combination of network,  cable and local  television,
print media, athletic event sponsorship,  and online channels in its advertising
to clients and potential clients.
     In its  advertising,  as  well  as in  promotional  events  such  as  press
appearances,  Schwab has  promoted the name and  likeness of its  Chairman,  Mr.
Schwab.  The Company has an agreement  with Mr.  Schwab by which he,  subject to
certain  limitations,  has assigned to the Company and Schwab all service  mark,
trademark,  and  trade  name  rights in his name (and  variations  thereon)  and
likeness.


                              Products and Services

     The Company offers a broad range of value-oriented products and services to
meet clients' varying investment and financial needs,  including help and advice
and access to extensive investment research, news and information.

     SCHWAB SERVICES FOR RETAIL INVESTORS.  Retail investors at Schwab,  through
the Individual Investor segment or indirectly through the Institutional Investor
segment,  have access to the accounts,  help and advice,  investment  education,
research and analysis tools and financing described below.

     Accounts and Features.  Through various types of brokerage accounts, Schwab
offers the purchase and sale of securities which include Nasdaq, exchange-listed
and other equity  securities,  options,  mutual funds,  unit investment  trusts,
variable  annuities and fixed income  investments,  including  U.S.  Treasuries,
zero-coupon  bonds,   exchange-listed  and  over-the-counter   corporate  bonds,
municipal  bonds,   Government  National  Mortgage  Association  securities  and
certificates  of deposit.  Schwab also offers certain of its clients initial and
secondary public stock offerings, debt underwritings,  and access to futures and
commodities trading.  Additionally,  Schwab provides clients access to a variety
of life insurance and annuity products through third-party insurance companies.
     Clients approved for margin  transactions may borrow a portion of the price
of certain  securities  purchased  through Schwab, or may sell securities short.
Clients must have specific  approval to trade options;  as of December 31, 2000,
369,000 accounts had such approval. To write uncovered options,  clients must go
through an additional approval process and must maintain a significantly  higher
level of equity in their brokerage accounts.
     Because  Schwab  does not pay  interest on cash  balances  in its  standard
Schwab  brokerage  accounts,  it  provides  clients  with an option to have cash
balances in their accounts  automatically swept, on a weekly basis, into certain
taxable or  state-specific  municipal  tax-exempt  SchwabFunds(R)  money  market
funds.
     A client may receive  additional  services by qualifying  for and opening a
Schwab One(R) brokerage  account.  A client may access available funds in his or
her Schwab One account  either with a personal  check,  a VISA(R)  debit card or
Schwab BillPay(R),  in addition to the Schwab MoneyLink(R)  service offered with
all brokerage accounts. When a Schwab One client is approved for margin trading,
the checks and debit card also provide access to margin cash available. For cash
balances  awaiting  investment,  Schwab  pays  interest  to Schwab One  clients.
Alternatively, qualifying Schwab One clients seeking tax-exempt income may elect
to have cash  balances  swept  daily into  state-specific  municipal  tax-exempt
SchwabFunds money market funds.
     Schwab  offers the  Signature  Services(TM)  program to clients that either
have at least  $100,000  in assets at Schwab or make at least 12 revenue  trades
per year and have at least  $10,000 in assets at Schwab.  This program  provides
such benefits as access to a dedicated  team of registered  representatives  for
certain clients, free research, and other services.  Within the program, clients
have access to three  different  levels of services  that are based on asset and
trading levels.  As part of the Signature  Services  program,  Schwab offers the
Schwab Access(TM) account. Designed to complement the Schwab One account, Schwab
Access is an account allowing clients to conduct everyday payment  activities at
Schwab via the Internet.  The Schwab Access account features include online bill
payment,  unlimited check writing,  Gold VISA debit card, returned check copies,
unlimited  money transfers  within Schwab  accounts and no-fee ATM access.  Cash
balances in a Schwab  Access  account are swept daily into a  SchwabFunds  money
market fund.
     Schwab acts as  custodian,  as well as broker,  for  Individual  Retirement
Accounts  (IRAs) and Keogh  accounts.  In Schwab IRAs,  cash  balances are swept
daily into one of three SchwabFunds money market funds. During 2000, active IRAs
and Keogh accounts  increased 19% to 3,000,000 accounts and client assets in all
IRAs and Keogh accounts increased 2% to $173.9 billion.
     CyBerCorp  offers a  brokerage  account to its  clients.  Features  of this
account include access to CyBerCorp's  proprietary  software designed to benefit
highly active  investors and the choice of manual or automated order routing for
placing trades.

     Help and Advice.  The  Company's  approach to advice is based on  long-term
investment  strategies  and  guidance  on  portfolio  diversification  and asset
allocation.  Schwab  strives to demystify  investing by educating  and assisting
clients in the development of investment  plans. This approach is designed to be
offered  consistently  across all of Schwab's  delivery  channels  and  provides
clients with a wide selection of choices for their  investment  needs.  Schwab's
registered  representatives  can assist investors in developing asset allocation
strategies and evaluating  their  investment  choices,  and refer  investors who
desire  additional  guidance  to  independent  investment  managers,   financial
planners and certified public  accountants  through the Schwab  AdvisorSource(R)
service.  Additionally, as part of the AdvisorSource service, Schwab clients and
potential  clients can obtain  referrals to U.S. Trust's  investment  management
service,  which  assists  clients in  developing  long-term  plans for  managing
wealth, and access to U.S. Trust's private banking service capabilities.

     Investment   Education,   Research  and  Analysis  Tools.  Schwab  provides
investors with investment  education,  research and analysis tools which include
WebShops(TM) - a series of workshops  designed to help investors  increase their
skills in using Schwab's online services. Schwab provides various Internet-based
research and analysis tools  including:  The Analyst  Center(R),  which connects
clients  to  proprietary  and  third-party  investment  research,  guidance  and
decision-making tools; the Positions  Monitor(TM),  which tracks clients' mutual
fund and equity holdings'  historical  performance;  the Mutual Fund Performance
Profile(TM),  which allows  clients to analyze the  performance  of their entire
mutual fund portfolio;  the Stock  Screener(TM),  which allows clients to search
over 9,000 equities using their own criteria;  the Schwab Learning Center, which
provides access to interactive courses designed to help clients learn more about
investing  principles  and use of the online  channel;  the Charles Schwab Stock
Analyzer(TM),  a tool that guides clients through the basics of equity research;
the Schwab  Portfolio  Checkup(TM),  an asset  allocation  tool that also allows
clients  to  include   non-Schwab   holdings  in  their   analyses;   the  Smart
Investor(TM),   a  centralized   location  on  Schwab.com(TM)   for  educational
information  about  investing;  and  SchwabWelcome.com(TM),   which  creates  an
efficient  and easy way for  prospects to get started  investing  at Schwab.  In
addition, Schwab provides SchwabAlerts(TM), which delivers investment and market
activity news to clients via both wireless and regular e-mail.

     Client Financing.  Clients' securities transactions are conducted on either
a cash or margin basis.  Generally,  a client  buying  securities in a cash-only
brokerage account is required to make payment by settlement date,  usually three
business  days after the trade is executed.  However,  for  purchases of certain
types of securities,  such as certain  mutual fund shares,  a client must have a
cash or money  market fund balance in his or her account  sufficient  to pay for
the trade prior to execution.  When selling securities,  a client is required to
deliver the securities,  and is entitled to receive the proceeds,  on settlement
date. In an account  authorized for margin  trading,  Schwab may lend a client a
portion of the market value of certain securities up to the limit imposed by the
Federal Reserve Board,  which for most equity securities is initially 50%. These
loans are collateralized by the securities in the client's account.  Short sales
of securities  represent  sales of borrowed  securities and create an obligation
for the client to purchase  the  securities  at a later  date.  Clients may sell
securities  short in a margin  account  subject to minimum equity and applicable
margin  requirements  and the availability of such securities to be borrowed and
delivered.
     Interest on margin loans to clients provides an important source of revenue
to Schwab.  During 2000,  Schwab's  outstanding margin loans to clients averaged
$19.8 billion.  After  increasing from 1998 to 1999 and reaching a peak of $22.3
billion in April 2000,  margin  loans to clients  declined  to $15.8  billion at
December 31, 2000 along with the decline in equity  valuations in the securities
markets.
     In permitting a client to engage in transactions,  Schwab faces credit risk
if the  client  fails to meet his or her  obligations  in the  event of  adverse
changes in the market value of the  securities  positions in his or her account.
Under applicable rules and regulations for margin  transactions,  Schwab, in the
event of such an adverse  change,  requires  the  client to  deposit  additional
securities or cash, so that the amount of the client's obligation is not greater
than  specified  percentages  of the cash and market values of the securities in
the account.  As a matter of policy,  Schwab  generally  requires its clients to
maintain higher  percentages of collateral  values than the minimum  percentages
required under these regulations.
     Schwab may use cash balances in client  accounts to extend margin credit to
other clients.  Pursuant to the requirements of Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (Rule  15c3-3),  the portion of such cash balances not used
to extend margin credit (increased or decreased by certain other  client-related
balances) must be held in segregated investment accounts.  The balances in these
segregated investment accounts must be invested in cash or qualified securities,
as defined by Rule 15c3-3.  To the extent client cash balances are available for
use by Schwab at interest  costs lower than  Schwab's  costs of  borrowing  from
alternative  sources,  Schwab's  cost of funds is reduced  and its net income is
enhanced.   Such  interest   savings   contribute   substantially   to  Schwab's
profitability  and, if a  significant  reduction of client cash balances were to
occur,  Schwab's  borrowings  from other  sources may have to increase  and such
profitability  would decline.  To the extent Schwab's clients elect to have cash
balances in their  brokerage  accounts swept into certain  SchwabFunds(R)  money
market  funds,  the cash  balances  available to Schwab for  investments  or for
financing  margin loans are reduced.  However,  Schwab receives asset management
and  administration  fees from such funds  based  upon  average  daily  invested
balances.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition - Risk  Management"  in the Company's 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" in this report.

     SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT INVESTMENT MANAGERS.  Schwab provides custodial,
trading and support  services to  independent  investment  managers  through the
Institutional  Investor segment.  To attract the business of accounts managed by
these managers,  Schwab has a dedicated business unit which includes experienced
registered   representatives   assigned  to  individual  managers.   Independent
investment managers participating in this program who custody client accounts at
Schwab may use  SchwabLink(R),  the SchwabLink Web(TM) site, the Managed Account
Connection(TM),  and  the  Signature  Services  Alliance(TM).  SchwabLink  is  a
computer-based  information  network that enables investment  managers to access
information  about their  clients'  accounts  directly  from  Schwab's  computer
systems and to enter their  clients'  trades  online.  The  SchwabLink  Web site
enables  investment  managers to use the Internet to  communicate  directly with
Schwab  service  teams,  as well as receive  news and  information.  The Managed
Account  Connection  enables  investment  managers to provide their clients with
personalized  equity portfolio  management by a variety of  institutional  asset
managers.   The  Signature  Services  Alliance  provides  enhanced  personalized
services to customers of investment  managers,  including  access to a dedicated
team of representatives and the Schwab Institutional Web site(TM).  During 2000,
Schwab  client  assets held in accounts  managed by  approximately  5,700 active
independent  investment  managers increased $21.0 billion, or 10%, to a total of
$234.1  billion.   Independent   investment  managers  generated  11%  of  total
commission revenues in both 2000 and 1999 and 12% in 1998.

     RETIREMENT PLAN SERVICES.  The Company  provides 401(k)  recordkeeping  and
other  retirement  plan services  through the  Institutional  Investor  segment.
Schwab serves company 401(k) plans directly  through a dedicated sales force, as
well as indirectly  through  alliances with third-party  administrators.  In the
direct channel,  SchwabPlan(R)  is the Company's  401(k)  retirement plan, which
offers plan sponsors a wide array of investment options,  participant  education
and servicing,  trustee services,  participant-level  recordkeeping,  and online
investment  guidance services.  During 2000, the Company enhanced  SchwabPlan by
introducing an electronic desktop delivery service that allows plan participants
to receive detailed account information via encrypted e-mail; and launched a new
Web site that allows individuals who are using Schwab's retirement plan services
through  third-party  administrators  to utilize  the  education,  planning  and
investment  tools that are  available to SchwabPlan  participants.  During 2000,
client assets in  employer-sponsored  retirement plans grew $4.7 billion, or 5%,
to $99.6 billion,  including $31.1 billion serviced by Schwab's  retirement plan
services business.

     MARKET-MAKING  ACTIVITIES.  Market-making  activities in Nasdaq,  exchange-
listed and other  securities are conducted  through the Capital Markets segment.
SCM provides trade execution  services in Nasdaq and other securities  primarily
to  broker-dealers,  including Schwab,  and institutional  clients.  As a market
maker in Nasdaq and other  securities,  SCM generally  executes client trades as
principal.  While  substantially  all Nasdaq security  trades  originated by the
clients of Schwab are directed to SCM, a  substantial  portion of SCM's  trading
volume comes from parties other than Schwab.
     Schwab has  specialist  operations  on the Boston  Stock  Exchange  and the
Cincinnati  Stock Exchange to make markets in  exchange-listed  securities.  The
majority  of trades  originated  by the  clients  of  Schwab in  exchange-listed
securities for which Schwab makes a market are directed to these operations.  At
December 31, 2000,  Schwab had four specialists on the Boston Stock Exchange and
nine  specialists on the Cincinnati  Stock Exchange that made markets in 139 and
193 securities, respectively.
     In the normal course of their market making in Nasdaq,  exchange-listed and
other securities, Schwab and SCM maintain inventories in such securities on both
a long and short basis.  While long inventory  positions  represent Schwab's and
SCM's ownership of securities,  short inventory positions represent  obligations
of Schwab and SCM to deliver specified  securities at a contracted price,  which
may differ  from  market  prices  prevailing  at the time of  completion  of the
transaction.  Accordingly, both long and short inventory positions may result in
gains or losses as market values of such securities fluctuate.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition - Risk  Management"  in the Company's 2000 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" in this report.

     MUTUAL FUNDS.  The Company's  mutual fund services are considered a product
and not a segment.  The Company provides mutual fund services  primarily through
the Individual Investor and Institutional Investor segments, as well as the U.S.
Trust segment.  Schwab's Mutual Fund  Marketplace(R)  provides  clients with the
ability to invest in over 2,000 mutual funds from 341 fund families.  Within the
Mutual Fund  Marketplace,  Schwab's  Mutual Fund  OneSource(R)  service  enables
clients to trade 1,280 mutual  funds from 237 fund  families  without  incurring
transaction fees. The Mutual Fund Marketplace also includes Schwab's mutual fund
clearing service.
     Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource  service allows investors to access multiple
mutual fund companies,  avoid brokerage transaction fees, and achieve investment
diversity  among  fund  families.  In  addition,  investors'  recordkeeping  and
investment  monitoring are simplified through one consolidated  statement.  Fees
received  by  Schwab  for  providing  services,   including   recordkeeping  and
shareholder services,  from the Mutual Fund OneSource program are based upon the
daily  balances of client  assets  invested in the  participating  funds through
Schwab and are paid by the funds and/or fund sponsors. Client assets invested in
third-party  funds that have been  purchased  through the Mutual Fund  OneSource
service, excluding SchwabFunds(R), totaled $98.3 billion at December 31, 2000.
     Schwab's  mutual fund  clearing  service  provides  mutual fund trading and
clearing  services  to banks  and  broker-dealers.  Client  assets  invested  in
third-party  funds through  Schwab's mutual fund clearing  service totaled $21.2
billion at December 31, 2000.
     Client assets invested in Schwab's Mutual Fund  Marketplace,  excluding the
Mutual Fund OneSource  service and mutual fund clearing  service,  totaled $71.3
billion at December 31, 2000.  Schwab charges a transaction fee on trades placed
in the funds included in the Mutual Fund  Marketplace  (except on trades through
the Mutual  Fund  OneSource  service).  These fees are  recorded  as  commission
revenues.  Commissions from client  transactions in mutual fund shares comprised
6% of total commission revenues in both 2000 and 1999 and 7% in 1998.
     In  addition to the  third-party  funds  available  through the Mutual Fund
Marketplace,  Schwab offers a family of  proprietary  funds,  referred to as the
SchwabFunds,  and U.S. Trust offers a family of mutual funds, referred to as the
Excelsior(R) funds.
     SchwabFunds(R)  include money market funds, equity index funds, bond funds,
asset allocation  funds,  funds that primarily  invest in stock,  bond and money
market funds, and actively-managed  equity funds.  Qualifying Schwab clients may
elect to have cash balances in their brokerage accounts  automatically  invested
in certain  SchwabFunds  money  market  funds.  Client  assets  invested  in the
SchwabFunds  were $127.2  billion at December  31,  2000.  Fees  received by the
Company from the SchwabFunds, for providing transfer agent services, shareholder
services,  administration  and investment  management,  are based upon the daily
balances of client assets invested in these funds.
     Excelsior funds include domestic equity funds,  international equity funds,
taxable  fixed  income  funds,  tax-exempt  fixed  income funds and money market
funds.  Client  assets  invested in the  Excelsior  funds were $12.3  billion at
December 31, 2000.

     U.S. TRUST INVESTMENT  MANAGEMENT,  FIDUCIARY  SERVICES AND PRIVATE BANKING
SERVICES.  U.S. Trust provides personal wealth  management  services to affluent
individuals and families. U.S. Trust provides both individually managed balanced
accounts  and  specialized  investment  management  services to clients  with $2
million  to $50  million  in assets at U.S.  Trust.  U.S.  Trust  offers  Wealth
Advisory  Accounts,  an investment  advisory service that utilizes the Excelsior
family of mutual  funds,  to clients  that have over  $250,000 in assets at U.S.
Trust.  In addition to  investment  management  services,  U.S.  Trust  provides
specialized   fiduciary,   financial  planning,   enhanced  master  custody  and
philanthropic  consulting  services  to  clients  that have over $50  million in
assets at U.S. Trust.  U.S. Trust also offers private banking services to assist
in meeting the credit and liquidity  requirements of its clients. These services
include mortgage and personal  lending  vehicles and an array of  deposit-taking
products.
     For institutional clients, including corporations,  endowments, foundations
and pension plans, U.S. Trust provides investment  management,  corporate trust,
brokerage and special fiduciary  services.  Through these investment  management
services,  U.S.  Trust  offers a wide  range of  investment  options,  including
balanced  and  specialized   domestic  and  international   equity  investments,
structured  investments,  alternative  investments,  fixed income securities and
short-term cash management. Institutional clients can also utilize the Excelsior
family of mutual funds.
     Additionally,  U.S. Trust offers to its institutional  clients  investment,
consulting and fiduciary services for employee stock ownership plans that invest
in  significant  amounts of employer  stock.  Special  fiduciary  services  also
include trustee  services for  non-qualified  or supplemental  employee  benefit
plans, also known as rabbi trusts.

                         Multi-Channel Delivery Systems

     The Company's  multi-channel  delivery  systems allow clients to choose how
they prefer to do business  with the Company.  In addition to its branch  office
network,  Schwab maintains five regional client telephone  service centers,  two
online  client  support  centers  as well as  automated  telephonic  and  online
channels, primarily serving retail investors through the Individual Investor and
Institutional  Investor  segments.  U.S. Trust maintains offices serving clients
through the U.S. Trust segment.

     OFFICE NETWORK.  To enable  clients to  obtain  services  in person  with a
Company representative,  the Company maintains a network of offices. At December
31, 2000,  Schwab operated 384 domestic branch offices in 48 states,  as well as
branches in the  Commonwealth  of Puerto Rico and the U.S.  Virgin  Islands.  At
December 31, 2000, U.S. Trust operated 31 offices in 11 states. In addition, the
Company has offices in Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong,
Japan and the United Kingdom.  The Company's  office network plays a key role in
building  its  business.  With the client  service  support of  regional  client
telephone service centers and automated  telephonic and online channels,  office
personnel  focus a  significant  portion of their time on business  development.
Clients can use Schwab's  branch offices to open  accounts,  deliver and receive
checks and  securities,  obtain market  information,  place  orders,  and obtain
related client services in person, yet most of these activities are conducted by
telephone,  mail and online  channels.  Schwab's  branch  offices  also  provide
investors with access to the Internet and to Schwab's registered representatives
who  can  assist  investors  in  developing  asset  allocation   strategies  and
evaluating  their investment  choices.  U.S. Trust's clients can meet with their
portfolio managers and other wealth management professionals at regional offices
throughout the country to obtain access to U.S.  Trust's wide array of financial
services and products.

     REGIONAL CLIENT TELEPHONE SERVICE CENTERS.  Schwab's  five  regional client
telephone service centers, located in Indianapolis, Denver, Phoenix, Orlando and
Austin, handle  client  trading and service calls twenty-four hours-a-day, seven
days-a-week. Schwab's fifth regional client telephone service center, located in
Austin, began handling calls in 2000. The capacity of the service centers allows
Schwab's branch office network to be maintained at lower staffing levels and for
office personnel to focus on business development.
     Schwab's  client  service  approach  is to  use  teams  led  by  registered
representatives  in the service  centers,  who work closely with office  network
personnel.  Additionally,  certain  teams at these centers  provide  specialized
services  to  clients  of  the  Schwab  Signature   Services(TM)  program.  Each
registered  representative  has  immediate  access  to the  client  account  and
market-related  information  necessary to respond to client inquiries.  For most
client orders,  registered  representatives  can enter the order and confirm the
transaction  immediately.  As a result  of this  approach,  the  departure  of a
registered  representative  generally  does not result in a loss of clients  for
Schwab.

     AUTOMATED TELEPHONIC AND ONLINE CHANNELS.   Clients  are  able  to   obtain
financial  information and execute trades on an automated basis through Schwab's
automated telephonic and online channels. These channels are designed to provide
added  convenience for clients and minimize  Schwab's costs of responding to and
processing  routine  client  transactions.  To assist  clients  in using  online
channels,  Schwab  maintains two online client support centers that operate both
during and after normal market hours.
     Schwab's  automated  telephonic  channels include  TeleBroker(R) - Schwab's
touch-tone  telephone  quote and  trading  service,  and Schwab by  Phone(TM)  -
Schwab's  voice  recognition  quote  and  trading  service.  Schwab's  automated
telephonic  channels  handled over 70% of client calls received in 2000.  Online
channels include the Charles Schwab Web Site, an information and trading service
on the  Internet at  www.schwab.com(TM);  the  CyBerCorp  Web site,  an Internet
service for highly active investors at  www.cybercorp.com;  PocketBroker(TM),  a
wireless   information   and  trading   service;   PC-based   services  such  as
SchwabLink(R),  a service for independent investment managers; and Velocity(TM),
an online  trading system which provides  enhanced trade  information  and order
execution for certain of Schwab's clients who trade frequently. While the online
channel is the  fastest-growing  channel,  the Company  continues  to stress the
importance of Clicks and Mortar(TM)  access - blending the power of the Internet
with personal service to create a full-service client experience.  The Company's
online  channels  handled 80% of total  trades in 2000.  Schwab  provides  every
retail client access to all delivery channels.
     The Company offers its clients access to extended-hours trading for certain
Nasdaq,  exchange-listed  and other securities  through its participation in the
REDIBook ECN.
     CyBerCorp offers its clients  CyBerX(R)2 and  CyBerTrader(R)3.0,  which are
trading  platforms that provide actively trading investors the ability to search
ECNs, market makers and market specialists for favorable equity prices.


                               Information Systems

     Schwab's  operations  rely  heavily  on  its  information   processing  and
communications systems.  Schwab's system for processing a securities transaction
is highly automated.  Registered  representatives  equipped with online computer
terminals can access client account  information,  obtain  securities prices and
related information, and enter orders online.
     To  support  its  multi-channel   delivery   systems,   as  well  as  other
applications such as clearing functions,  account administration,  recordkeeping
and  direct  client  access  to  investment  information,   Schwab  maintains  a
sophisticated computer network connecting all of the offices and regional client
telephone service centers.  Schwab's computers are also linked to SCM, the major
registered  U.S.   securities   exchanges,   the  National  Securities  Clearing
Corporation, The Depository Trust Company and the REDIBook ECN via SCM.
     Failure of Schwab's information  processing or communications systems for a
significant  period of time could  limit  Schwab's  ability to process its large
volume of  transactions  accurately  and rapidly.  This could cause Schwab to be
unable to satisfy its  obligations to clients and other  securities  firms,  and
could result in regulatory violations.
     External events,  such as an earthquake or power failure,  loss of external
information  feeds  such as  security  price  information,  as well as  internal
malfunctions such as those that could occur during the  implementation of system
modifications, could render part or all of such systems inoperative.
     To enhance the  reliability  of the system and  integrity  of data,  Schwab
maintains backup and recovery  functions.  These include logging of all critical
files  intraday,  duplication  and storage of all  critical  data outside of its
central computer site every twenty-four hours, and maintenance of facilities for
backup and  communications.  They also  include  the  maintenance  and  periodic
testing of a disaster recovery plan that management believes would permit Schwab
to recommence essential computer operations if its central computer site were to
become inaccessible.  To minimize business  interruptions,  the Company has data
centers  intended,  in  part,  to  further  improve  the  recovery  of  business
processing in the event of an emergency.
     In  addition,  USTC has an  outsourcing  agreement  with a third party that
provides data processing,  security processing,  custodial and other operational
support services.  Under the terms of the outsourcing agreement, the third-party
provider has the right to terminate the contract upon the change in control that
resulted  from the merger of CSC with USTC.  The Company  plans to repatriate to
the Company's systems  substantially  all of the service  functions  provided by
this third  party,  and the Company and U.S.  Trust expect to be able to provide
for an orderly repatriation of such functions.  The transition is expected to be
completed before the end of the third quarter of 2001. While management believes
that there will be a  successful  transition,  there is a  possibility  that the
transition  could result in a significant  disruption to U.S. Trust's ability to
service its clients and as a  consequence  could  result in lost  business and a
deterioration in U.S. Trust's fee revenues.


                        Clearing and Account Maintenance

     Schwab performs clearing services for all securities transactions in client
accounts.  Schwab  clears the vast majority of client  transactions  through the
facilities  of the  National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation  or the  Options
Clearing   Corporation.   Certain  other  transactions,   such  as  mutual  fund
transactions and transactions in securities not eligible for settlement  through
a clearing  corporation,  are settled  directly  with the mutual  funds or other
financial institutions. Schwab is obligated to settle transactions with clearing
corporations,  mutual funds and other  financial  institutions  even if Schwab's
client  fails  to meet  his or her  obligations  to  Schwab.  In  addition,  for
transactions that do not settle through a clearing  corporation,  Schwab assumes
the risk of the other  party's  failure  to  settle  the  trade.  See note "20 -
Financial  Instruments with  Off-Balance-Sheet  and Credit Risk" in the Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


                                    Employees

     As of December 31, 2000, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary
employees,  and  persons  employed  on a  contract  basis that  represented  the
equivalent of 26,300 full-time employees.


                                 Risk Management

     The  Company's  business and  activities  expose it to  different  types of
risks.  Proper  identification,  assessment  and  management  of these risks are
essential  to  the  success  and  financial  soundness  of  the  Company.  For a
discussion  on the  Company's  principal  risks  and  some of the  policies  and
procedures for risk identification, assessment and mitigation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition - Risk
Management"  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this  report,  and
"Information Systems" and "Regulation" in this report.


                                   Competition

The Company faces  significant  competition  from  companies  seeking to attract
client financial assets,  including  traditional  brokerage firms  (particularly
firms that have started providing online trading  services),  discount brokerage
firms,  online  brokerage  firms,  mutual  fund  companies,   banks,  and  asset
management  companies.   For  a  discussion  of  competition  see  "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition -
Competition  and -  Looking  Ahead"  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


                                   Regulation

     The  securities  industry  in the United  States is  subject  to  extensive
regulation  under both  federal  and state laws.  The  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  (SEC) is the  federal  agency  charged  with  administration  of the
federal  securities  laws.  Schwab,  SCM and  CyBerCorp,  Inc., a subsidiary  of
CyBerCorp,  are registered as  broker-dealers  with the SEC. Schwab and CSIM are
registered  as  investment  advisors  with  the  SEC.  Additionally,  Schwab  is
regulated by the Commodities  Futures Trading  Commission (CFTC) with respect to
its introduced futures and commodities trading activities.
     Much  of  the   regulation  of   broker-dealers   has  been   delegated  to
self-regulatory   organizations,   principally   the  National   Association  of
Securities Dealers,  Inc. (NASD) and the national  securities  exchanges such as
the New York Stock  Exchange  (NYSE),  which has been  designated  by the SEC as
Schwab's primary regulator with respect to its securities  activities.  The NASD
has been  designated by the SEC as SCM's primary  regulator  with respect to its
securities  activities.  The  Chicago  Board  Options  Exchange  (CBOE) has been
designated as Schwab's  primary  regulator  with respect to its options  trading
activities for 2000 and 2001. The National  Futures  Association  (NFA) has been
designated by the CFTC as Schwab's primary regulator with respect to its futures
and commodities trading activities.  These  self-regulatory  organizations adopt
rules  (subject to  approval  by the SEC or CFTC)  governing  the  industry  and
conduct  periodic  examinations  of  broker-dealers.  Securities  firms are also
subject to regulation  by state  securities  authorities  in the states in which
they do business.  In addition to its  membership in the NYSE,  Schwab is also a
member of most other major U.S. securities exchanges and is consequently subject
to their rules and regulations. Schwab and SCM were registered as broker-dealers
in fifty  states,  the  District of Columbia  and Puerto Rico as of December 31,
2000.
     The principal purpose of regulations and discipline of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors is the  protection of clients and the  securities  markets,
rather than  protection  of creditors and  stockholders  of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors.  The  regulations to which  broker-dealers  and investment
advisors are subject  cover all aspects of the  securities  business,  including
sales methods,  trading practices among broker-dealers,  uses and safekeeping of
clients'  funds  and  securities,   capital   structure  of  securities   firms,
recordkeeping and reporting,  fee arrangements,  disclosure to clients,  and the
conduct of directors, officers and employees. As registered investment advisors,
Schwab and CSIM are subject to the  requirements of the Investment  Advisers Act
of 1940 and the  regulations  thereunder,  which  impose,  among  other  things,
various  recordkeeping,   reporting,  and  disclosure  requirements  and  impose
limitations  on fees and  principal  transactions  between  an  advisor  and its
clients.  The  state  securities  law  requirements   applicable  to  registered
investment  advisors are in certain cases more  comprehensive than those imposed
under the federal securities laws.
     Additional  legislation,  changes in rules  promulgated  by the SEC,  other
federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory  organizations,  or
changes in the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of existing  laws and rules may
directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers  and
investment advisors. The profitability of broker-dealers and investment advisors
could also be affected by rules and  regulations  which  impact the business and
financial  communities  in  general,  including  changes  to the laws  governing
taxation,   antitrust  regulation  and  electronic  commerce.   The  SEC,  CFTC,
self-regulatory organizations and state securities authorities may conduct civil
or  administrative  proceedings  which can result in  censure,  fine,  cease and
desist orders,  or suspension or expulsion of a  broker-dealer  or an investment
advisor,  its officers,  or  employees.  Schwab and SCM have been the subject of
such administrative proceedings.
     The SEC  ordered  the  exchanges  and  Nasdaq  to submit a plan to phase in
decimal  pricing,  which pricing began for certain  listed stocks and options on
September 5, 2000,  and which pricing  begins for certain  Nasdaq  securities on
March 12, 2001, and for all remaining equity  securities and options by April 9,
2001. This change, which will only affect the Capital Markets segment, is likely
to cause decreases in average revenue per share traded, and therefore management
considers it likely that  decimalization  will  adversely  impact this segment's
revenues.  Applicable laws and regulations also limit SCM's ability to engage in
principal  transactions  with  certain  accounts  where  U.S.  Trust  acts  as a
fiduciary.  See  also  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Results  of
Operations and Financial  Condition - Revenues - Principal  Transactions" in the
Company's 2000 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by
reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     As registered broker-dealers and NASD member organizations, Schwab, SCM and
CyBerCorp, Inc. are required by federal law to belong to the Securities Investor
Protection  Corporation (SIPC), which provides,  in the event of the liquidation
of a  broker-dealer,  protection for securities  held in client accounts held by
the firm of up to $500,000 per client,  subject to a limitation  of $100,000 for
claims  of cash  balances.  SIPC is funded  through  assessments  on  registered
broker-dealers.  In addition,  Schwab  purchased  from a private  surety company
account  protection for clients above the SIPC limit,  as defined,  of up to the
net equity value for client securities and cash in each account.  Stocks, bonds,
mutual  funds,  options,  unit  investment  trusts  and money  market  funds are
considered  securities  for the purposes of SIPC  protection  and the additional
protection (i.e.,  protected securities may either be replaced or converted into
an equivalent market value as of the date a SIPC trustee is appointed).  Neither
SIPC  protection nor the additional  protection  applies to  fluctuations in the
market value of securities.
     Schwab  is  authorized  by the  Municipal  Securities  Rulemaking  Board to
conduct  transactions  in municipal  securities on behalf of its clients and has
obtained  certain  additional  registrations  with the SEC and state  regulatory
agencies necessary to permit it to engage in certain other activities incidental
to its brokerage business.
     Margin  lending by Schwab  and SCM is  subject  to the margin  rules of the
Federal Reserve Board and the NYSE. Under such rules, broker-dealers are limited
in the amount they may lend in connection with certain purchases and short sales
of securities and are also required to impose certain  maintenance  requirements
on the amount of securities and cash held in margin accounts. In addition, those
rules and rules of the CBOE govern the amount of margin clients must provide and
maintain in writing uncovered options.
     As a California  state-chartered trust company, CSTC is primarily regulated
by the  State of  California  Department  of  Financial  Institutions.  Since it
provides  employee benefit plan trust services,  CSTC is also required to comply
with  the  Employee   Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974  (ERISA)  and,
consequently,  is subject to oversight by both the Internal  Revenue Service and
Department  of Labor.  CSTC is required  under ERISA to maintain a fidelity bond
for the protection of employee benefit trusts for which it serves as trustee.
     The Company's  business is also subject to  regulation by various  non-U.S.
governments,  securities exchanges and regulatory bodies,  particularly in those
countries  where it has  acquired  subsidiaries.  Such  regulation  may directly
affect  the method of  operation  and  profitability  of the  Company's  foreign
operations. CSE is registered as a broker-dealer with the Securities and Futures
Authority in the United Kingdom.  CS Canada is a broker-dealer  in Canada and is
regulated under the laws of the Canadian provinces by securities commissions and
by the Investment  Dealers  Association of Canada. CS Canada is also a member of
the  Toronto  and  Winnipeg  Stock  Exchanges  and is subject to their rules and
regulations. Charles Schwab, Hong Kong, Ltd. (CSHK) and Charles Schwab Hong Kong
Securities  Limited  (CSHKS) are  subsidiaries  of CSC.  CSHK is registered as a
securities  dealer and commodity trading advisor with the Securities and Futures
Commission in Hong Kong (SFC).  CSHKS is registered as a securities  dealer with
the SFC and also as an Exchange  Participant  of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited.  CSTMS is a  securities  firm  licensed  and  regulated by the Japanese
Ministry of Finance.  CS Australia is a  registered  broker in Australia  and is
regulated by the Australian Stock Exchange.
     NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. As registered broker-dealers,  certain subsidiar-
ies of the  Company,  including  Schwab and SCM,  are subject to the Uniform Net
Capital Rule (Rule  15c3-1) under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the Net
Capital Rule), which has also been adopted through incorporation by reference in
NYSE Rule 325. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements.  Schwab is
a member firm of the NYSE, the NASD and the NFA, and SCM is a member firm of the
NASD. The Net Capital Rule specifies  minimum net capital  requirements that are
intended  to  ensure  the  general   financial   soundness   and   liquidity  of
broker-dealers.  Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm
to suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and the NASD, certain punitive actions by
the SEC and  other  regulatory  bodies,  and  ultimately  may  require  a firm's
liquidation.  Because CSC itself is not a  registered  broker-dealer,  it is not
subject to the Net Capital  Rule.  However,  if Schwab or SCM failed to maintain
specified levels of net capital,  such failure would constitute a default by CSC
under certain debt covenants.
     "Net   capital"  is   essentially   defined  as  net  worth  (assets  minus
liabilities),  plus qualifying subordinated borrowings,  less certain deductions
that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and
from  conservatively  valuing  certain other assets.  These  deductions  include
charges  that  discount  the value of firm  security  positions  to reflect  the
possibility of adverse changes in market value prior to disposition.
     The Net Capital Rule requires  notice of equity  capital  withdrawals to be
provided to the SEC prior to and  subsequent to  withdrawals  exceeding  certain
sizes. Such rule prohibits  withdrawals that would reduce a broker-dealer's  net
capital to an amount less than 25% of its deductions required by the Net Capital
Rule as to its  security  positions.  The Net Capital  Rule also allows the SEC,
under limited circumstances, to restrict a broker-dealer from withdrawing equity
capital for up to twenty business days.
     Schwab and SCM have elected the  alternative  method of  calculation  under
paragraph  (a)(1)(ii) of the Net Capital Rule, which requires a broker-dealer to
maintain  minimum  net  capital  equal  to 2% of its  "aggregate  debit  items,"
computed  in  accordance   with  the  Formula  for   Determination   of  Reserve
Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934).  "Aggregate  debit  items"  are assets  that have as their  source
transactions with clients,  primarily margin loans. Under the alternative method
of the Net Capital Rule, a broker-dealer  may not (a) pay, or permit the payment
or  withdrawal  of, any  subordinated  borrowings  or (b) pay cash  dividends or
permit  equity  capital to be removed if, after giving  effect to such  payment,
withdrawal,  or removal,  its net capital would be less than 5% of its aggregate
debit items.
     Under NYSE Rule 326,  Schwab is required to reduce its  business if its net
capital  is less  than  4% of  aggregate  debit  items  for  more  than  fifteen
consecutive  business  days;  NYSE  Rule 326 also  prohibits  the  expansion  of
business if net capital is less than 5% of  aggregate  debit items for more than
fifteen  consecutive  business days. The provisions of NYSE Rule 326 also become
operative if capital withdrawals (including scheduled maturities of subordinated
borrowings  during the  following  six months)  would result in a reduction of a
firm's net capital to the levels indicated.
     If compliance  with  applicable net capital rules were to limit Schwab's or
SCM's  operations and their ability to repay  subordinated  debt to CSC, this in
turn could limit CSC's  ability to repay debt,  pay cash  dividends and purchase
shares of its outstanding stock. See also "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  -  Liquidity  and  Capital
Resources - Liquidity"  in the  Company's  2000 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     For  additional  discussion  on net  capital  requirements  see  note "18 -
Regulatory  Requirements" in the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

     BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT REQUIREMENTS.  Upon  completion of the merger with
USTC, CSC became a financial  holding  company,  which is a type of bank holding
company subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve Board under
the Act. For a discussion of bank holding company requirements see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial  Condition - Bank
Holding Company Act Requirements" and note "18 - Regulatory Requirements" in the
Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 2.       Properties

     The Company's corporate  headquarters are located in a 28-story building at
101  Montgomery  Street in San  Francisco,  California.  The  building  contains
296,000  square feet and is leased by Schwab  under a term  expiring in the year
2010.  Schwab has three successive  five-year options to renew the lease at then
current market rates.  Schwab also has a lease for 412,000 square feet of office
space located at 211 Main Street in San Francisco, California. The lease expires
in 2018 and  includes  two ten-year  extension  options at then  current  market
rates. A subsidiary of Schwab has entered into an agreement to lease a building,
totaling approximately 386,000 square feet, located at 215 Fremont Street in San
Francisco,  California.  The lease  expires  in 2005  and,  subject  to  certain
conditions,  includes a renewal option for one additional  five-year  period. In
addition to these locations,  Schwab leases space in other buildings for its San
Francisco  operations,  including its principal  executive offices at 120 Kearny
Street,  aggregating 1,218,000 additional square feet. U.S. Trust's headquarters
are located in leased office space,  totaling  583,000  square feet, in New York
City,  New York.  The lease expires in 2014 and includes two ten-year  extension
options at the then current  market  rates.  SCM's  headquarters  are located in
leased office space in Jersey City, New Jersey.
     Substantially  all of the Company's offices are located in leased premises,
generally  with lease  expiration  dates five to ten years  from  inception.  In
addition,  the Company has five regional client telephone  service centers.  The
Company  owns the  service  centers  located in Phoenix and  Indianapolis,  with
286,000 and  164,000  square  feet,  respectively.  The  Company  also leases an
additional  154,000  square  feet as part of its  Phoenix  service  center.  The
Company leases its service centers  located in Denver and Orlando,  with 328,000
and 227,000  square feet,  respectively.  In 2000,  the Company opened its fifth
service center, located in Austin, and leases 116,000 square feet.
     The Company  owns its data center  facilities  located in Phoenix  totaling
617,000 square feet, including 315,000 square feet added in 2000.
     While  the  corporate  headquarters  and data  centers  support  all of the
Company's  segments,  the  offices  and service  centers  primarily  support the
Individual  Investor,  Institutional  Investor  and U.S.  Trust  segments.  U.S.
Trust's  headquarters  support the U.S.  Trust  segment  and SCM's  headquarters
support the Capital Markets segment.


Item 3.       Legal Proceedings

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in  note  "19  -  Commitments  and  Contingent  Liabilities"  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 2000.


                                     PART II


Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
              Related Stockholder Matters

     The Company's  common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific  Exchange
under the ticker symbol SCH. The number of common  stockholders  of record as of
March 8, 2001 was 12,449.  The closing  market  price per share on that date was
$19.60.
     The other  information  required to be  furnished  pursuant to this item is
included in "Quarterly Financial Information  (Unaudited)" in the Company's 2000
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 6.       Selected Financial Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Selected  Financial and Operating  Data" in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
              Results of Operations

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition"  in the  Company's  2000  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Average  balances  and interest  rates for the fourth  quarters of 2000 and
1999 are summarized as follows (dollars in millions):

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           Three Months Ended
                                                              December 31,
                                                            2000        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest-Earning Assets (client-related and other):
Margin loans to clients:
  Average balance outstanding                            $18,650     $14,982
  Average interest rate                                    9.34%       7.83%
Investments (client-related):
  Average balance outstanding                            $ 6,073     $ 8,415
  Average interest rate                                    5.82%       5.01%
Private banking loans:
  Average balance outstanding                            $ 3,020     $ 2,621
  Average interest rate                                    7.77%       7.31%
Securities available for sale:
  Average balance outstanding                            $ 1,070     $   996
  Average interest rate                                    6.08%       5.64%
Average yield on interest-earning assets                   8.31%       6.82%
Funding Sources (client-related
   and other):
Interest-bearing brokerage client cash balances:
  Average balance outstanding                            $21,189     $18,701
  Average interest rate                                    5.42%       4.38%
Interest-bearing banking deposits:
  Average balance outstanding                            $ 3,176     $ 3,012
  Average interest rate                                    5.30%       4.44%
Other interest-bearing sources:
  Average balance outstanding                            $ 1,410     $ 1,497
  Average interest rate                                    4.67%       4.32%
Average noninterest-bearing portion                      $ 3,038     $ 3,804
Average interest rate on funding sources                   4.79%       3.76%
Summary:
  Average yield on interest-earning assets                 8.31%       6.82%
  Average interest rate on funding sources                 4.79%       3.76%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average net interest spread                                3.52%       3.06%
==============================================================================

     The increase in net interest  revenue,  net of interest  expense,  from the
fourth quarter of 1999 to the fourth quarter of 2000 was primarily due to higher
levels of margin loans to clients,  partially offset by higher average brokerage
client cash  balances.  The  increase was also due to an increase in the average
rate on margin loans to clients,  which was  partially  offset by an increase in
the average rate on brokerage client cash balances.


Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition - Risk  Management - Market Risk" in the Company's  2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in the Consolidated  Financial Statements and "Quarterly  Financial  Information
(Unaudited)"  in the  Company's  2000 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which are
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
              Financial Disclosure

     None.


                                    PART III


Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  information  relating  to  directors  of the  Company  required  to be
furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by reference from portions of
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 30, 2001 (the Proxy
Statement)  under  "The  Board  of  Directors"  and  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance."

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  following  table  provides  certain  information  about  each  of  the
Company's  current  executive  officers.  Executive  officers are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. However, Mr. Schwab
has an employment  agreement with the Company through March 2005, which includes
an automatic  renewal  feature that, as of each March 31,  extends the agreement
for an additional year unless either party elects to not extend the agreement.


================================================================================

                      Executive Officers of the Registrant


      Name               Age                 Title
     ------             ----                -------

Charles R. Schwab        63    Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer,
                               and Director

David S. Pottruck        52    President, Co-Chief Executive Officer,
                               and Director

John Philip Coghlan      49    Vice Chairman - Schwab Institutional

Linnet F. Deily          55    Vice Chairman - Office of the President

Christopher V. Dodds     41    Executive Vice President
                               and Chief Financial Officer

Lon Gorman               52    Vice Chairman - Schwab Capital Markets

Daniel O. Leemon         47    Executive Vice President
                               and Chief Strategy Officer

Dawn Gould Lepore        46    Vice Chairman and Chief Information Officer

Jeffrey S. Maurer        53    Executive Vice President and Director
                               Chief Executive Officer of U.S. Trust Corporation

Robert H. Rosseau        52    Executive Vice President - International

Elizabeth Gibson Sawi    48    Executive Vice President
                               and Chief Administrative Officer

Steven L. Scheid         47    Vice Chairman - Retail

H. Marshall Schwarz      64    Executive Vice President and Director
                               Chairman of U.S. Trust Corporation

================================================================================


     Mr. Schwab has been Co-Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company since 1998,
and Chairman and a director of the Company since its  incorporation in 1986. Mr.
Schwab was Chief Executive  Officer of the Company from 1986 to 1997. Mr. Schwab
was a founder of Schwab in 1971 and has been its Chairman since 1978. Mr. Schwab
is currently a director of Gap, Inc.;  AudioBase,  Inc., a company that provides
music and voice to Internet  publishers,  advertisers and marketers;  and Siebel
Systems,  Inc., a company that provides support for software systems. Mr. Schwab
is also a trustee of The Charles  Schwab  Family of Funds,  Schwab  Investments,
Schwab Capital Trust and Schwab Annuity  Portfolios,  all registered  investment
companies.  In May 2000,  Mr. Schwab was named a director of USTC. In June 2000,
Mr. Schwab was named a director of Xign, Inc., a developer of electronic payment
systems using digitally signed electronic check technology.

     Mr. Pottruck has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company since 1998,
a director of the Company  since 1994,  and President of the Company since 1992.
Mr. Pottruck was Chief  Operating  Officer of the Company from 1994 to 1998. Mr.
Pottruck has been Chief Executive  Officer of Schwab since 1992 and President of
Schwab since 1988  (except for the period  September  1997 to April  1998).  Mr.
Pottruck  joined Schwab in 1984.  Mr.  Pottruck is currently a director of Intel
Corporation, a maker of microcomputer components and related products;  McKesson
HBOC, Inc., a healthcare services company;  and Epoch Partners,  Inc., an online
investment banking firm owned in part by the Company. Mr. Pottruck serves on the
Board of Governors of both the National Association of Securities Dealers,  Inc.
and the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Mr. Pottruck was a member of the Federal  Advisory
Commission  on  Electronic  Commerce  from 1998 to 1999.  In January  2000,  Mr.
Pottruck  was  named  a  director  of  DoveBid,   Inc.,  a  provider  of  online
business-to-business capital asset auctions and valuation services. In May 2000,
Mr. Pottruck was named a director of USTC.

     Mr.  Coghlan has been Vice  Chairman of the Company and Schwab  since 1999,
Enterprise  President  - Schwab  Institutional  of Schwab  since  March 2001 and
Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1992. Mr. Coghlan was Enterprise
President - Services for  Investment  Managers of Schwab from 1998 to March 2001
and Enterprise President - Retirement Plan Services of Schwab from 1997 to March
2001. Mr. Coghlan was Executive Vice President of Schwab and General  Manager of
Schwab Institutional from 1992 to 1997. Mr. Coghlan joined Schwab in 1986.

     Ms. Deily has been Vice  Chairman - Office of the President of Schwab since
October  2000,  Vice Chairman of the Company and Schwab since 1999 and Executive
Vice  President of the Company  since 1997.  Ms. Deily was President - Retail of
Schwab from 1998 to October 2000, Enterprise President - Services for Investment
Managers of Schwab from 1997 to 1998 and  Executive  Vice  President and General
Manager - Services for  Investment  Managers of the Company and Schwab from 1996
to 1997.  Before joining  Schwab in 1996, Ms. Deily was Chairman,  President and
Chief Executive Officer of First Interstate Bank of Texas from 1991 to 1996. Ms.
Deily is currently a director of Reliant Energy, Inc., an international  utility
company.

     Mr. Dodds has been Chief Financial  Officer of the Company and Schwab since
1999 and  Executive  Vice  President of the Company and Schwab  since 1998.  Mr.
Dodds  was  Corporate  Controller  of  Schwab  from  1997 to 1999 and  Corporate
Treasurer of Schwab from 1993 to 1997. Mr. Dodds joined Schwab in 1986.

     Mr.  Gorman has been Vice  Chairman of the  Company and Schwab  since 1999,
Enterprise  President  - Schwab  Capital  Markets of Schwab and  Executive  Vice
President of the Company since 1997.  Mr. Gorman was Executive  Vice President -
Schwab  Capital  Markets of the  Company  and Schwab  from 1996 to 1997.  Before
joining  Schwab in 1996,  Mr.  Gorman was a Managing  Director of Credit  Suisse
First Boston  Corporation  from 1988 to 1996. Mr. Gorman is currently a director
of the Securities Industry  Association and REDIBook ECN LLC. In March 2000, Mr.
Gorman was named a director of CyBerCorp Holdings, Inc.

     Mr. Leemon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy  Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1995.  Mr.  Leemon  joined  Schwab in 1995. In July
2000, Mr. Leemon was named a director of E-LOAN, Inc., an online lender and loan
broker, and LiveCapital, a provider of online small business financing.

     Ms.  Lepore has been Vice Chairman of the Company and Schwab since 1999 and
Chief  Information  Officer of the Company and Schwab since 1993. Ms. Lepore was
Executive Vice President of the Company and Schwab from 1993 to 1999. Ms. Lepore
joined Schwab in 1983. In January 2000,  Ms. Lepore was named a director of eBay
Inc.

     Mr. Maurer has been  Executive Vice President and a director of the Company
since May 2000.  Mr.  Maurer  has been Chief  Executive  Officer of USTC and its
principal  subsidiary,  United States Trust Company of New York (U.S. Trust NY),
since  January 2001.  Mr.  Maurer has been a director of USTC and U.S.  Trust NY
since 1989. Mr. Maurer was Chief Operating Officer of USTC from 1994 to December
2000 and President of USTC from 1990 to December 2000. Mr. Maurer joined USTC in
1970. Mr. Maurer is currently a director of Forbes.com, and the Greater New York
Mutual Insurance Companies, a property and casualty insurance company.

     Mr. Rosseau has been  Executive  Vice President and Enterprise  President -
International  of the Company and Schwab since February  2000.  Prior to joining
Schwab, Mr. Rosseau was Chief Executive Officer of ETC Services,  Inc. from 1998
to February  2000.  Mr.  Rosseau was  President and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Deluxe  Electronic  Payment  Systems,  Inc. and Senior Vice  President of Deluxe
Corporation  from  1996 to  1998.  Mr.  Rosseau  was  Chairman  of  Diners  Club
International  Ltd.,  and President and Chief  Executive  Officer of Diners Club
North America from 1991 to 1996.

     Ms. Sawi has been Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
of the Company and Schwab since 1999.  Ms. Sawi returned to Schwab  full-time in
1999 after a fifteen-month sabbatical.  Prior to her sabbatical, Ms. Sawi worked
for  Schwab  part-time  on  several  projects  from 1997 to 1998.  Ms.  Sawi was
Executive Vice  President - Electronic  Brokerage of the Company and Schwab from
1995 to 1997. Ms. Sawi joined Schwab in 1982.

     Mr.  Scheid has been Vice  Chairman of the  Company and Schwab  since 1999,
President - Retail of Schwab since October 2000 and Executive  Vice President of
the Company since 1996. Mr. Scheid was Enterprise President - Financial Products
and Services of Schwab from 1998 to October 2000 and Executive Vice President of
Schwab and Chief Financial  Officer of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to 1999.
Before  joining  Schwab in 1996,  Mr.  Scheid was  Executive  Vice  President of
Finance  of  First  Interstate  Bancorp  from  1994  to 1996  and was  Principal
Financial  Officer from 1995 to 1996.  Mr. Scheid is currently a director of The
Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation.

     Mr. Schwarz has been Executive Vice President and a director of the Company
since May 2000.  Mr.  Schwarz has been Chairman of USTC and U.S.  Trust NY since
1990.  Mr. Schwarz has been a director of USTC and U.S. Trust NY since 1977. Mr.
Schwarz  was Chief  Executive  Officer of USTC from 1990 to December  2000.  Mr.
Schwarz  joined USTC in 1967.  Mr.  Schwarz is  currently a director of Atlantic
Mutual Companies,  a property and casualty insurance  company,  and Bowne & Co.,
Inc., a financial printer and information and document management company.


Item 11.      Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from portions of the Proxy  Statement under "Director
Compensation,"   "Summary   Compensation   Table,"  "Option  Grants,"   "Options
Exercised,"   "Compensation   Committee  Report,"  "Certain  Transactions,"  and
"Appendix A - Description of Employment and License Agreements."


Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under  "Principal
Stockholders."


Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from a portion of the Proxy  Statement under "Certain
Transactions."


                                     PART IV


Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this Report

     1. Financial Statements

     The financial  statements and independent  auditors' report are included in
the Company's 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report and are listed below:

         Consolidated Statement of Income
         Consolidated Balance Sheet
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         Independent Auditors' Report

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statement schedules required to be furnished pursuant to this
item are listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 2000.




(c)  Exhibits

 The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual report on Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Exhibit
 Number                                 Exhibit
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   1.3    The  Charles  Schwab   Corporation   Medium-Term  Notes   Distribution
          Agreement filed as Exhibit 1.3 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended June 30, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.

   2.1    Agreement  and  Plan  of  Merger dated as of January 12, 2000,  by and
          among The Charles Schwab  Corporation,  Patriot Merger Corporation and
          U.S. Trust Corporation,  filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Form
          8-K dated January 12, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.

   3.9    Second  Restated Bylaws,  as  amended on September 22,  1998,  of  the
          Registrant  (supersedes  Exhibit  3.8)  filed  as  Exhibit  3.9 to the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September 30, 1998 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

  3.10    Fourth Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective July 30, 1999,
          of the  Registrant,  which  includes  amendments  through May 20, 1999
          (supersedes  Exhibit 3.7),  filed as Exhibit 3.10 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1999 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.

   4.2    Neither  the  Registrant  nor  its  subsidiaries  are  parties  to any
          instrument  with  respect  to  long-term  debt  for  which  securities
          authorized thereunder exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant
          and its  subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Copies of instruments
          with respect to long-term  debt of lesser  amounts will be provided to
          the SEC upon request.

  10.4    Form of  Release  Agreement  dated as of March  31,  1987  among  BAC,
          Registrant,  Schwab  Holdings,  Inc.,  Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc. and
          former shareholders of Schwab Holdings, Inc.                         *

 10.57    Registration  Rights  and  Stock  Restriction  Agreement,  dated as of
          March 31, 1987,  between the  Registrant and the holders of the Common
          Stock,  filed as Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's  Registration  Statement
          No. 33-16192 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.

 10.72    Restatement  of Assignment and License,  as amended  January 25, 1988,
          among  Charles  Schwab  &  Co.,  Inc.,   Charles  R.  Schwab  and  the
          Registrant,  filed as Exhibit 10.72 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.

 10.87    Trust  Agreement under  the Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee
          Stock  Ownership  Plan,  effective November 1, 1990, dated October 25,
          1990,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.87  to  the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for
          the  quarter  ended  September 30, 2000  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.101    First  Amendment  to  the  Trust  Agreement  under the Charles  Schwab
          Profit Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan, effective January 1,
          1992,  dated  December  20,  1991,  filed  as  Exhibit  10.101  to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1996 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.116    Second  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan  effective  July 1, 1992,
          dated June 30, 1992, filed as Exhibit 10.116 to the Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.120    ESOP  Loan  Agreement,  effective  as of  January  19,  1993,  between
          Registrant  and The Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee Stock
          Ownership Plan and Trust,  filed as Exhibit 10.120 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

10.138    Form   of   Nonstatutory  Stock  Option   Agreement  for  Non-Employee
          Directors,  filed  as  Exhibit  4.4 to the  Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  No.  33-47842  on  Form  S-8  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.140    Form  of  Restricted  Shares  Agreement,  filed as  Exhibit 4.6 to the
          Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.  33-54701  on Form  S-8 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.149    Employment Agreement dated as of March 31, 1995 between the Registrant
          and Charles R.  Schwab,  filed as Exhibit  10.149 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

10.166    The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1987  Executive  Officer Stock Option
          Plan,  restated to include  amendments through February 26, 1997, with
          form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement  (Executive Officer Stock
          Option Plan (1987))  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.159) filed as
          Exhibit  10.166 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                 +

10.167    The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan,  restated to
          include   amendments   through   February  26,  1997,   with  form  of
          Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.160) filed as Exhibit 10.167 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

10.169    Third  Amendment to the Trust  Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1996,
          dated May 8, 1996 filed as  Exhibit  10.169 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

10.175    Form of Restricted  Shares Award  Agreement with  performance  vesting
          conditions of The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
          (supersedes   Exhibit   10.155)   filed  as  Exhibit   10.175  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.176    Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan  (supersedes Form of Non-Qualified
          Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit  10.167) filed as Exhibit 10.176 to
          the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.177    Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.177 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.178    Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.178 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.179    Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan (supersedes Form
          of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit 10.166) filed as
          Exhibit  10.179 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

10.180    Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit
          10.180 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30,
          1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                           +

10.182    The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, amended
          and restated,  effective  January 1, 1996 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.147)
          filed as Exhibit 10.182 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

10.185    The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Senior  Executive  Severance  Policy,
          effective December 7, 1995 filed as Exhibit 10.185 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1997 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.                                                 +

10.186    The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option  Plan,  as amended
          October 22, 1997, with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement
          (General  Management Plan) attached  (supersedes Exhibit 10.160) filed
          as  Exhibit  10.186 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.              +

10.188    The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan
          (1987), as amended October 22, 1997, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock
          Option  Agreement   (Executive   Officer  Stock  Option  Plan  (1987))
          attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit 10.159) filed as Exhibit 10.188 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.189    Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance  Plan  restated and amended
          January 1, 1998 (supersedes Exhibit 10.146) filed as Exhibit 10.189 to
          the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.190    The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Employee  Stock  Incentive Plan dated
          October 22, 1997 filed as Exhibit 10.190 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.191    Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.171)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.191 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.192    Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.172)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.192 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.193    Form of Nonstatutory  Stock Option and  Performance  Unit Agreement of
          The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.173) filed as Exhibit 10.193 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

10.194    Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.174)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.194 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.198    Credit Agreement (3-Year Commitment),  between the Registrant and each
          of the banks  listed  therein,  dated as of June 26, 1998  (supersedes
          Exhibit  10.196),  filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the  Registrant's  Current
          Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 17,  1998 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

10.200    Form of Indemnification  Agreement entered into between Registrant and
          members of the Board of Directors of  Registrant  (supersedes  exhibit
          10.34),  filed as Exhibit 10.200 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.202    Fourth  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1998,
          filed as  Exhibit  10.202 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

10.206    Credit Agreement (364-Day  Commitment) dated June 25, 1999 between the
          Registrant and the financial  institutions  listed therein (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.197), filed as Exhibit 10.206 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q
          for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1999  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.

10.208    The  Charles Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive  Plan,  restated
          to include  amendments  through December 15, 1999 (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.207), filed as Exhibit 10.208 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

10.209    The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Directors'  Deferred   Compensation
          Plan,   restated  to  include  amendments  through  October  28,  1999
          (supersedes Exhibit 10.204 and 10.157), filed as Exhibit 10.209 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1999 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.210    The  SchwabPlan  Retirement  Savings and Investment Plan,  restated to
          include  amendments  through  December 22, 1999  (supersedes  Exhibits
          10.195,   10.201  and  10.205),   filed  as  Exhibit   10.210  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1999 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.211    The   Charles   Schwab    Corporation   Annual  Executive   Individual
          Performance  Plan,   amended  and  restated  as  of  January  1,  2000
          (supersedes   Exhibit   10.189),   filed  as  Exhibit  10.211  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q for the  quarter  ended  March  31,  2000 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

10.212    The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, amended
          and restated as of January 1, 2000 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.182), filed
          as  Exhibit 10.212 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          March 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.                 +

10.213    The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated
          to include  amendments  through  April 19,  2000  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.208), filed as Exhibit 10.213 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended June 30, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.    +

10.214    The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated to
          include  amendments  through  December  13, 2000  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.213).                                                             +

10.215    The Charles Schwab Corporation  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan,
          restated to include amendments through  December 13,  2000 (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.209).                                                     +

  12.1    Computation   of  Ratio  of  Earnings  to Fixed Charges.

  13.1    Portions  of The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  2000  Annual  Report to
          Stockholders, which have been incorporated herein by reference. Except
          for such  portions,  such  annual  report is not  deemed to be "filed"
          herewith.

  21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  23.1    Independent Auditors' Consent.

*   Incorporated   by   reference   to  the   identically-numbered   exhibit  to
    Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-16192 on Form S-1, as amended and
    declared effective on September 22, 1987.

+   Management contract or compensatory plan.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 28, 2001.


                                        THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                                                 (Registrant)


                                        BY: /s/ Charles R. Schwab
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Charles R. Schwab
                                            Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer
                                             and Director


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated, on March 28, 2001.

    Signature / Title                            Signature / Title


/s/ Charles R. Schwab                      /s/ David S. Pottruck
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
Charles R. Schwab,                         David S. Pottruck,
Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer       President, Co-Chief Executive Officer
 and Director                               and Director
 (principal executive officer)              (principal executive officer)


/s/ Christopher V. Dodds
- ------------------------------
Christopher V. Dodds,
Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Officer
 (principal financial
  and accounting officer)


/s/ Nancy H. Bechtle                       /s/ C. Preston Butcher
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
Nancy H. Bechtle, Director                 C. Preston Butcher, Director


/s/ Donald G. Fisher                       /s/ Anthony M. Frank
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
Donald G. Fisher, Director                 Anthony M. Frank, Director


/s/ Frank C. Herringer                     /s/ Jeffrey S. Maurer
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
Frank C. Herringer, Director               Jeffrey S. Maurer, Director


/s/ Stephen T. McLin                       /s/ Arun Sarin
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
Stephen T. McLin, Director                 Arun Sarin, Director


/s/ H. Marshall Schwarz                    /s/ George P. Shultz
- ------------------------------             -------------------------------
H. Marshall Schwarz, Director              George P. Shultz, Director


/s/ Roger O. Walther
- ------------------------------
Roger O. Walther, Director




                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                     Index to Financial Statement Schedules


                                                                        Page
                                                                        ----

Independent Auditors' Report                                             F-2

Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
                     Condensed Balance Sheet                             F-3
                     Condensed Statement of Income                       F-4
                     Condensed Statement of Cash Flows                   F-5
                     Notes to Condensed Financial Information         F-6 - F-8

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                          F-9

U.S. Trust Corporation Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)       F-10 - F-15










Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions  under
which they are required or because the  information is included in the Company's
consolidated  financial statements and notes in the Company's 2000 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


                                      F-1




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
- ----------------------------



To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
     The Charles Schwab Corporation:



We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The Charles  Schwab
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and
for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  2000,  and have
issued our report  thereon dated  February 22, 2001 (which  report  expresses an
unqualified  opinion  and  includes  an  explanatory  paragraph  related  to  an
accounting change to conform with Statement of Position 98-1); such consolidated
financial  statements  and report are  included  in your 2000  Annual  Report to
Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included
the financial statement  schedules  (Schedules I and II) of the Company on pages
F-3 through F-9. These financial  statement  schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedules,  when considered
in relation to the basic  consolidated  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.





/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
- -------------------------
San Francisco, California
February 22, 2001


                                      F-2


















                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         The Charles Schwab Corporation
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                    Notes to Condensed Financial Information


1.   Introduction and basis of presentation

     On May 31,  2000,  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  (the  Parent  Company)
     completed its merger (the Merger) with U.S. Trust Corporation (USTC). Under
     the terms of the merger agreement, USTC became a wholly owned subsidiary of
     the Parent  Company and USTC  shareholders  received  5.1405  shares of the
     Parent Company's common stock for each common share of USTC. The Merger was
     treated as a non-taxable  stock-for-stock  exchange and USTC's shareholders
     received  approximately  112,000,000  shares of the Parent Company's common
     stock. The condensed financial  statements,  included in this Annual Report
     on Form 10-K, give  retroactive  effect to the Merger,  which was accounted
     for as a pooling of interests in the consolidated financial statements. The
     pooling of interests  method of accounting  requires the restatement of all
     periods presented as if the Parent Company and USTC had been operating as a
     combined entity during such periods. For the years ended December 31, 2000,
     1999 and 1998,  stockholders'  equity  reflects  the accounts of the Parent
     Company as if the common stock issued to USTC  shareholders had been issued
     during all of the periods presented.

     The condensed financial information of the Parent Company should be read in
     conjunction  with the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The  Charles
     Schwab  Corporation  and  subsidiaries  (collectively  referred  to as  the
     Company) and notes thereto  included in the Company's 2000 Annual Report to
     Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
     of this report.

2.   Supplemental cash flow information

     During 1998, the Parent Company recorded a non-cash capital contribution of
     $69 million to its subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), through
     the assumption of indebtedness.

     During 2000, the Parent Company recorded a non-cash capital contribution of
     $19 million to its  subsidiary,  Schwab,  through the  contribution  of net
     assets.  Also during 2000, the Parent Company recorded a non-cash return of
     capital of $82 million from Schwab and a non-cash  capital  contribution of
     $82  million to USTC in  connection  with  Schwab's  purchase  of rights to
     software from USTC.

     Certain of the Parent Company's subsidiaries have remitted the tax benefits
     from stock options  exercised and other  stock-based  compensation  of $178
     million in 2000, $213 million in 1999 and $69 million in 1998 to the Parent
     Company.

     Certain information  affecting the cash flows of the Parent Company follows
     (in thousands):

                                                    Year ended December 31,
                                                2000         1999         1998
                                             -----------------------------------

     Income taxes paid                       $  9,677       $11,264      $ 5,539
                                             ========       =======      =======
     Interest paid:
         Long-term debt                      $ 41,899       $24,644      $23,757
         Other                                    559           809          667
                                             --------       -------      -------
     Total interest paid                     $ 42,458       $25,453      $24,424
                                             ========       =======      =======

     Non-cash investing and
      financing activities:
        Common stock and options issued
         for purchases of businesses         $528,815       $45,459      $12,455
                                             ========       =======      =======

3.   Common stock split

     On May 3, 2000, the Board of Directors  approved a  three-for-two  split of
     the Parent Company's common stock,  which was effected in the form of a 50%
     stock  dividend.  The  stock  dividend  was  distributed  May  30,  2000 to
     stockholders of record May 12, 2000.


                                      F-6



4.   Long-term debt

     Long-term debt consists of Senior Medium-Term Notes,  Series A (Medium-Term
     Notes). At December 31, 2000, the Parent Company had $718 million aggregate
     principal  amount of  Medium-Term  Notes  outstanding,  with fixed interest
     rates ranging from 5.96% to 8.05%. At December 31, 1999, the Parent Company
     had $455  million  aggregate  Medium-Term  Notes  outstanding,  with  fixed
     interest rates ranging from 5.96% to 7.50%.  Annual maturities on long-term
     debt outstanding at December 31, 2000 are as follows (in thousands):

     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     2001                                                               $ 39,000
     2002                                                                113,000
     2003                                                                100,000
     2004                                                                 80,500
     2005                                                                 56,000
     Thereafter                                                          329,500
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                                                              $718,000
     ===========================================================================

5.   Related party transactions

     At December 31, 2000,  receivables  from  affiliates,  which is included in
     advances to subsidiaries,  was $37 million.  At December 31, 2000, payables
     to affiliates, which is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities,
     was $9 million  and is payable on demand  and bears  interest  at  variable
     rates (6.3% at December 31, 2000).

     The Parent Company provides subordinated  revolving  credit facilities  and
     other  lending  arrangements  to its  subsidiaries,  Schwab, Schwab Capital
     Markets L.P. (SCM) and Charles Schwab Europe (CSE).

     Schwab has a $1.4 billion  subordinated  revolving credit facility maturing
     in September  2002, of which $520 million was  outstanding  at December 31,
     2000.  This credit  facility was $1.4 billion at the end of 1999,  of which
     $905 million was outstanding at December 31, 1999. At year end 2000, Schwab
     also had outstanding $25 million in fixed-rate subordinated term loans from
     the Parent Company maturing in 2002. The outstanding  balance of these term
     loans was also $25 million at year end 1999.

     SCM has a $70 million  subordinated  lending arrangement  maturing in 2002,
     which  was  not  used at  December  31,  2000.  This  subordinated  lending
     arrangement  was $35  million  at the  end of  1999,  and  was not  used at
     December 31, 1999. SCM also had a $25 million short-term credit facility at
     December 31, 2000 and 1999.  No funds were drawn under these  facilities at
     December 31, 2000 and 1999.

     CSE has a total of (pound)70  million,  equivalent to $105  million,  under
     subordinated lending  arrangements  maturing between May 2001 and September
     2003. At December 31, 2000,  CSE had  outstanding  (pound)18  million under
     these  arrangements,  equivalent  to $27  million,  with  (pound)5  million
     maturing in 2001 and  (pound)13  million  maturing in 2003.  These  lending
     arrangements were (pound)20 million,  equivalent to $32 million, at the end
     of 1999. The amount outstanding at December 31, 1999 was (pound)18 million,
     equivalent to $29 million.

     The Parent Company also provides other lending  arrangements  to certain of
     its  subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2000,  the total amount  provided under
     these  lending  arrangements  was $48  million,  of which $23  million  was
     outstanding  and matures in 2001.  These lending  arrangements  totaled $10
     million and were unused at December 31, 1999.

     Interest  earned by the Parent  Company from these  subordinated  revolving
     credit  facilities  and other lending  arrangements  totaled $90 million in
     2000, $60 million in 1999 and $37 million in 1998.


                                      F-7



6.   Commitments

     The Parent Company has provided a residual value guarantee of approximately
     $200 million to a lessor,  under a lease  agreement  entered into by one of
     Schwab's  subsidiaries,  in the event the leased  property  is sold and the
     proceeds on the sale are below the guarantee.


                                      F-8






































