
10-K
1999 FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington D.C. 20549


                                   FORM 10-K


                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999        Commission file number 1-9700



                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


              Delaware                                  94-3025021
   (State or other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 of incorporation or organization)

                   120 Kearny Street, San Francisco, CA 94108
              (Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 627-7000


           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
     -------------------               -----------------------------------------
Common Stock - $.01 par value            New York Stock Exchange
                                         Pacific Exchange

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x  No
                                      ---   ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

As of March 6, 2000,  the  aggregate  market  value of the voting  stock held by
nonaffiliates  of the  registrant  was  $30,973,147,178.  For  purposes  of this
information,  the  outstanding  shares of Common  Stock owned by  directors  and
executive officers of the registrant,  and certain investment  companies managed
by Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,  Inc. were deemed to be shares of the
voting stock held by affiliates.

The  number  of  shares  of  Common  Stock  outstanding  as of March 6, 2000 was
837,201,644* shares.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate certain information contained in the
registrant's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders by reference to portions of that
document.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates certain information contained
in the  registrant's  definitive  proxy  statement  for its  annual  meeting  of
stockholders to be held May 3, 2000 by reference to portions of that document.

* Restated for the July 1999 two-for-one common stock split.





                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                           Annual Report On Form 10-K

                     For Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999


                                


FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS  - This Annual  Report on Form 10-K,  including  the
information  incorporated by reference,  contains  "forward-looking  statements"
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities  Act, and Section 21E of the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934.  Forward-looking  statements are identified by
words such as "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "will," "may"
and other  similar  expressions.  In  addition,  any  statements  that  refer to
expectations,  projections  or  other  characterizations  of  future  events  or
circumstances are forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements,
which reflect management's  beliefs,  objectives and expectations as of the date
hereof,  are  necessarily  estimates  based on the best  judgment  of our senior
management.  These statements  relate to, among other things,  the impact on the
Company's  results of operations of the reduced  pricing on equity online trades
for certain customers,  the impact on the Company's results of operations of the
fee adjustments related to minimum account balances,  the ability of the Company
to realize the expected benefits of acquisitions, the Company's potential status
under the Bank Holding Company Act, the ability to pursue the Company's strategy
to attract and retain customer  assets,  the impact on the Company's  results of
operations of the Internet trade pricing for  independent  investment  managers,
the availability of the Company's  information systems, the effects of increased
competition,  and the  declines  in average  commission  per  revenue  trade and
average  revenue  per  share  traded.  Achievement  of  the  expressed  beliefs,
objectives and expectations is subject to certain risks and  uncertainties  that
could cause actual results to differ  materially from those beliefs,  objectives
and  expectations.  Readers are cautioned  not to place undue  reliance on these
forward-looking  statements,  which  speak  only as of the  date of this  Annual
Report on Form 10-K or, in the case of documents  incorporated by reference,  as
of the date of those documents.




                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION



                                     PART I

Item 1.       Business

     (a) General  Development of Business.  The Charles Schwab Corporation (CSC)
was incorporated in 1986 and engages,  through its  subsidiaries,  in securities
brokerage and related financial  services.  In this report, the "Company" refers
to CSC and its subsidiaries.  CSC's principal subsidiary,  Charles Schwab & Co.,
Inc. (Schwab), is a securities  broker-dealer.  Schwab was incorporated in 1971,
and entered the discount brokerage business in 1974. Schwab Capital Markets L.P.
(SCM) (prior to March 1, 2000,  this subsidiary was known as Mayer & Schweitzer,
Inc.),  a  subsidiary  acquired in 1991,  is a market  maker in Nasdaq and other
securities that provides trade execution  services  primarily to  broker-dealers
and institutional customers.
     Other  subsidiaries  of CSC include Charles Schwab  Investment  Management,
Inc.  (CSIM),  The Charles Schwab Trust Company (CSTC) and Charles Schwab Europe
(CSE).  CSIM,  incorporated in 1989, acts as the investment advisor for Schwab's
proprietary  mutual funds. The Company refers to certain funds for which CSIM is
the investment advisor as the SchwabFunds(R). CSTC, incorporated in 1992, serves
as trustee for employee benefit plans,  primarily 401(k) plans. CSE, acquired in
1995 to expand the Company's  international  operations,  is a retail securities
brokerage firm located in the United Kingdom.
     The  Company  continues  to enhance  the ways it helps  investors  develop,
evaluate and access  their  investment  choices.  In 1999,  Schwab  introduced a
number of new  Internet-based  investment  services,  including Schwab Signature
Services(TM), which provides enhanced personal and online services for customers
with higher asset balances or trading volumes with Schwab, and Velocity(TM),  an
online  trading  system which  provides  enhanced  trade  information  and order
execution for certain of Schwab's customers who trade frequently.  Also in 1999,
Schwab introduced MyResearch(TM) report, which enables customers to design their
own  research  reports,  and  MySchwab(TM),  which  allows  users to customize a
personal  Schwab home page with content  provided by  Excite@Home.  In addition,
Schwab  introduced  SchwabAlerts(TM),   which  delivers  investment  and  market
activity  news  to  customers  via  both  wireless  and  regular   e-mail,   and
eConfirms(TM),  which  delivers  trade  confirmations  electronically.  Further,
Schwab enabled customers to open a new account, update contact information, sign
up for the Schwab  MoneyLink(R)  service and request a check  through  automated
Web-based processes.
     There were several new developments in the Company's  business during 1999.
The Company and several major  financial  services firms formed a new electronic
communications  network  (ECN),  REDIBook  ECN LLC,  which  utilizes  technology
developed by Spear,  Leeds & Kellogg LP.  Participation  in this ECN has enabled
Schwab to launch an  extended-hours  trading  session  for  certain  Nasdaq  and
selected  exchange-listed  stocks.  Also in 1999,  the Company  entered  into an
agreement with TD Waterhouse Group, Inc.,  Ameritrade Holding Corporation,  KPCB
Holdings,  Inc., Trident Capital Management,  LLC and Benchmark Capital Partners
to form Epoch Partners, Inc., a new online investment bank that intends to focus
on  information  technology  and Internet  companies.  This new company plans to
commence operations in 2000. In addition,  a precedent-setting  no-action letter
from the Securities and Exchange  Commission  (SEC) will enable Schwab to be the
first  brokerage firm to provide  individual  investors with access to Web-based
presentations   by  companies  in  the  process  of  going  public.   Other  new
developments  during 1999  include the  formation of  alliances  with  Financial
Engines, Inc. and mPower.com,  Inc. to provide participants in SchwabPlan(R),  a
bundled 401(k) offering, with access to online investment guidance services; and
with OffRoad Capital to provide certain  customers with access to private equity
investment opportunities.
     The Company  moved to expand its  international  presence  through  several
transactions during 1999, including entering into a joint venture agreement with
The Tokio  Marine  and Fire  Insurance  Co.,  Limited  (TMI) and  certain of its
related companies (collectively,  the TMI Group). The Company and each member of
the TMI Group are shareholders in a Japanese  corporation,  Charles Schwab Tokio
Marine  Securities  Co.,  Ltd.  (CSTMS),  in which the  Company has a 50% equity
interest.  CSTMS,  whose  business  is expected to commence in the first half of
2000, will initially  provide retail  brokerage and investment  services in U.S.
dollar-denominated securities to residents of Japan. CSTMS is currently expected
to offer Japanese  Yen-denominated  securities  later in 2000. Also in 1999, the
Company completed the acquisitions of Canadian-based Priority Brokerage Inc. and
Porthmeor  Securities  Inc.  These two companies were combined to create Charles
Schwab Canada, Co. (CS Canada),  a subsidiary of CSC.  Additionally in 1999, the
Company signed a definitive agreement to form a joint venture with ecorp Limited
to provide  financial  services to Australian  and New Zealand  investors.  This
transaction  closed in February 2000.  Further,  during 1999 CSE extended online
and telephonic services to Swiss investors.
     In February  2000,  the Company  announced a plan to provide  customers who
meet certain online equity  trading  criteria with reduced  pricing.  This price
reduction  is  designed  to enhance  the  Company's  competitive  position  with
actively trading investors.  Also in February 2000, the Company announced a plan
to increase fees related to minimum account balances  (effective April 1, 2000).
This fee adjustment is designed to more effectively  align account fees with the
expanded and improved services currently available to Schwab customers. See also
"Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and Financial
Condition -- Revenues -- Commissions  and Other  Revenues" in the Company's 1999
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     During 1999, CSC's Board of Directors  declared a two-for-one  common stock
split,  distributed  July 1999,  effected in the form of a 100% stock  dividend.
Share and per share information throughout this report have been restated.


                                Subsequent Events

     On January  13,  2000,  the Company  announced  the  execution  of a merger
agreement with U.S. Trust Corporation (U.S.  Trust), a leading wealth management
firm serving affluent individuals and families.  This transaction is intended to
combine the Company's  experience in  technology,  operations,  advertising  and
distribution  with U.S.  Trust's highly  personalized  service  model,  research
capabilities,  trust and estate services, money management skills and reputation
in wealth management  services.  Management believes that, upon the consummation
of this  transaction,  the  combined  organization  can create a  comprehensive,
integrated,  value-priced,  wealth management offering for affluent  households,
including  both  individual  investors and customers of  independent  investment
managers.
     On February 2, 2000,  the Company  announced  the execution of a definitive
agreement to acquire  CyBerCorp,  Inc.  (CyBerCorp),  a closely-held  electronic
trading  technology  and brokerage  firm  providing  Internet-based  services to
highly active,  online  investors.  The Company  intends to utilize  CyBerCorp's
order entry,  routing and management  technology to attract and retain  actively
trading individual investors.  The Company expects that the technology will also
benefit  Schwab's   independent   investment   advisors'   customers  and  other
institutional and international  investors.  This acquisition closed on March 1,
2000.
     See  also  both  "Management's   Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Results  of
Operations  and  Financial  Condition  --  Subsequent  Events"  and  note  "16 -
Subsequent  Events" in the Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated  herein by
reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

     (b) Financial  Information About Segments.  The Company provides  financial
services to  individuals,  institutional  customers and  broker-dealers  through
three  segments  --  Individual  Investor,  Institutional  Investor  and Capital
Markets.  The Individual  Investor segment  includes the Company's  domestic and
international  retail  operations.  The Institutional  Investor segment provides
custodial,  trading and support services to independent investment managers, and
serves company 401(k) plan sponsors and third-party administrators.  The Capital
Markets segment provides trade execution services in Nasdaq, exchange-listed and
other securities  primarily to broker-dealers and institutional  customers.  The
Company's  mutual  fund  services  are  considered  a product and not a segment.
Mutual fund  service  fees are  included  in both the  Individual  Investor  and
Institutional  Investor  segments.  For  financial  information  by segment  and
geographic  area,  and for revenues by major  customer for the three years ended
December  31,  1999,  see  note  "14 -  Segment  Information"  in the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.

     (c)  Narrative  Description  of Business.  The  Company's  primary focus is
serving retail  investors in the U.S.,  either  directly or through  independent
investment  managers,  who want  access to a broad  selection  of  products  and
services,  as well as investment  news and  information,  tailored to meet their
financial needs. The Company, through Schwab, serves 6.6 million active customer
accounts(a).  Customer  assets  in these  accounts  totaled  $725.2  billion  at
December 31, 1999.
     The Company's strategy is to attract and retain customer assets by focusing
on a number of areas within the financial services industry -- retail brokerage,
mutual funds,  support  services for  independent  investment  managers,  401(k)
defined  contribution plans and equity securities  market-making.  To pursue its
strategy and its objective of long-term  profitable growth, the Company plans to
continue to leverage its  competitive  advantages.  These  advantages  include a
nationally   recognized   brand,   a  broad  range  of  products  and  services,
multi-channel  delivery systems and an ongoing  investment in technology.  While
the Company's business  continues to be predominantly  conducted in the U.S., in
1999 the Company continued to selectively expand its international presence.
     The table below shows the Company's revenues on a comparative basis for the
three years ended December 31, 1999.

- ----------------
(a) Accounts with balances or activity within the preceding eight months.





This  table  should  be read  in  connection  with  the  Company's  consolidated
financial   statements  and  notes  in  the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.  Certain prior years' revenues and expenses have been  reclassified
to conform to the 1999 presentation.


                       Advertising and Marketing Programs

     The Company's  nationwide  advertising and marketing  programs  support its
strategy by continually reinforcing the strengths and key attributes of Schwab's
full-service  offering.  By maintaining a consistent  level of visibility in the
marketplace,  the Company  seeks to  establish  a leading and lasting  financial
services brand in a focused and cost-effective manner. The Company's advertising
and  market  development  expense  was $242  million in 1999,  compared  to $155
million in 1998 and $130 million in 1997. Expenditures for these programs helped
Schwab attract $106.9  billion in net new customer  assets in 1999,  compared to
$79.1 billion in 1998 and $68.9  billion in 1997.  New accounts  opened  totaled
1,481,000 in 1999, compared to 1,380,000 in 1998 and 1,164,000 in 1997. Customer
assets  from new  accounts  represented  approximately  50% of net new  customer
assets in each of the three years ended December 31, 1999.
     The  Company  primarily  uses a  combination  of  network,  cable and local
television,   print  media,   national  and  local  radio,  and  athletic  event
sponsorship in its advertising to investors.  Schwab also engages extensively in
targeted direct mail advertising through monthly statement "inserts" and special
mailings.
     In its  advertising,  as  well  as in  promotional  events  such  as  press
appearances,  Schwab has  promoted the name and  likeness of its  Chairman,  Mr.
Schwab.  The Company has an agreement  with Mr.  Schwab by which he,  subject to
certain  limitations,  has assigned to the Company and Schwab all service  mark,
trademark,  and  trade  name  rights in his name (and  variations  thereon)  and
likeness.

                              Products and Services

     The  Company  offers  a  broad  range  of  products  and  services  to meet
customers' varying investment and financial needs, including help and advice and
access to investment research, news and information.

     Services for Retail  Investors.  Retail  investors,  through the Individual
Investor segment or indirectly through the Institutional  Investor segment, have
access to the  accounts,  help and advice,  investment  education,  research and
analysis tools, financing and mutual funds described below.

     Accounts  and  Features.  The  Company  offers  the  purchase  and  sale of
securities which include Nasdaq,  exchange-listed  and other equity  securities,
options,  mutual funds,  unit investment  trusts,  variable  annuities and fixed
income   investments,    including   U.S.    Treasuries,    zero-coupon   bonds,
exchange-listed   and   over-the-counter   corporate  bonds,   municipal  bonds,
Government National Mortgage Association securities and certificates of deposit.
The Company also offers  certain of its customers  initial and secondary  public
stock  offerings,  debt  underwritings,  and access to futures  and  commodities
trading.  Customers approved for margin transactions may borrow a portion of the
price of certain  securities  purchased  through Schwab,  or may sell securities
short.  Customers must have specific  approval to trade options;  as of December
31,  1999,  324,000  accounts had such  approval.  To write  uncovered  options,
customers  must go through an  additional  approval  process and must maintain a
significantly higher level of equity in their brokerage accounts.
     Because  Schwab does not pay interest on cash  balances in basic  brokerage
accounts,  it provides  customers  with an option to have cash balances in their
accounts  automatically  swept,  on a weekly  basis,  into  certain  taxable  or
state-specific municipal tax-exempt SchwabFunds(R) money market funds.
     A customer may receive additional  services by qualifying for and opening a
Schwab One(R) brokerage account. A customer may access available funds in his or
her Schwab One account  either with a personal check or a VISA(R) debit card, in
addition to the Schwab MoneyLink(R) and Schwab BillPay(TM) services offered with
all  brokerage  accounts.  When a Schwab One  customer  is  approved  for margin
trading, the checks and debit card also provide access to margin cash available.
For cash  balances  awaiting  investment,  Schwab  pays  interest  to Schwab One
customers.  Alternatively,  qualifying Schwab One customers  seeking  tax-exempt
income may elect to have cash balances swept daily into state-specific municipal
tax-exempt SchwabFunds money market funds.
     Schwab offers the Signature  Services(TM)  program to customers that either
have  $100,000 in assets at Schwab or make at least 12 revenue  trades per year.
This program  provides such benefits as access to a dedicated team of registered
representatives,   free  research,  and  other  services.  Within  the  program,
customers have access to three  additional  levels of services that are based on
asset and trading  levels.  As part of the Signature  Services  program,  Schwab
introduced the Schwab Access(TM) account.  Designed to complement the Schwab One
account,  Schwab  Access is an account  allowing  customers to conduct  everyday
payment  activities  at Schwab  via the  Internet.  The  Schwab  Access  account
features include online bill payment,  unlimited checking, Gold VISA debit card,
returned check copies,  unlimited  money  transfers  within Schwab  accounts and
no-fee ATM access. Cash balances in a Schwab Access account are swept daily into
a SchwabFunds money market fund.
     Schwab acts as  custodian,  as well as broker,  for  Individual  Retirement
Accounts (IRAs). In Schwab IRAs, cash balances are swept daily into one of three
SchwabFunds  money market  funds.  During  1999,  active IRAs  increased  19% to
2,500,000  accounts  and  customer  assets in all IRAs  increased  45% to $168.6
billion. Schwab also acts as custodian and broker for Keogh accounts.

     Help and Advice.  The  Company's  approach to advice is based on  long-term
investment  strategies  and  guidance  on  portfolio  diversification  and asset
allocation.  The  Company  strives  to  demystify  investing  by  educating  and
assisting  customers in the  development of investment  plans.  This approach is
designed  to be  offered  consistently  across  all  of the  Company's  delivery
channels  and  provides  customers  with a wide  selection  of choices for their
investment needs.  Schwab's  registered  representatives can assist investors in
developing asset allocation  strategies and evaluating their investment choices,
and refer  investors who desire  additional  guidance to independent  investment
managers through the Schwab AdvisorSource(TM)  service. In 1999, Schwab expanded
the AdvisorSource  referral  services program to include financial  planners and
certified  public  accountants.  Schwab  also  introduced  customized  portfolio
guidance  through  Schwab  investment  specialists  and a range of new Web-based
planning and investment evaluation tools.

     Investment   Education,   Research  and  Analysis  Tools.  Schwab  provides
investors  with  investment  education,  research and analysis  tools.  In 1999,
Schwab introduced WebShops(TM),  the first in a series of educational workshops,
designed  to help  investors  increase  their  skills in using  Schwab's  online
services.  Schwab provides  various  Internet-based  research and analysis tools
including:  The Analyst Center(TM),  which connects customers to proprietary and
third-party  investment  research,   guidance  and  decision-making  tools;  the
Positions Monitor(TM),  which tracks customers' mutual fund and equity holdings'
historical performance;  the Mutual Fund Performance  Profile(TM),  which allows
customers to analyze the performance of their entire mutual fund portfolio;  and
the Stock  Screener(TM),  which allows  customers to search over 9,000  equities
using their own criteria.

     Customer  Financing.  Customers'  securities  transactions are conducted on
either a cash or margin  basis.  Generally,  a customer  buying  securities in a
cash-only  brokerage  account is required to make  payment by  settlement  date,
usually three business days after the trade is executed.  However, for purchases
of certain types of securities,  such as certain mutual fund shares,  a customer
must have a cash or money market fund  balance in his or her account  sufficient
to pay for the trade prior to execution.  When selling securities, a customer is
required to deliver the securities,  and is entitled to receive the proceeds, on
settlement  date. In an account  authorized for margin trading,  Schwab may lend
its customer a portion of the market value of certain securities up to the limit
imposed by the  Federal  Reserve  Board,  which for most  equity  securities  is
initially 50%. Such loans are collateralized by the securities in the customer's
account.  Short sales of securities  represent sales of borrowed  securities and
create an obligation to purchase the  securities at a later date.  Customers may
sell  securities  short  in a margin  account  subject  to  minimum  equity  and
applicable  margin  requirements  and the  availability of such securities to be
borrowed and delivered.
     Interest  on margin  loans to  customers  provides an  important  source of
revenue to Schwab.  During 1999, Schwab's  outstanding margin loans to customers
averaged $13.2 billion.
     In  permitting  a customer to engage in  transactions,  Schwab faces credit
risk if the  customer  fails  to meet  his or her  obligations  in the  event of
adverse  changes in the market value of the  securities  positions in his or her
account. Under applicable rules and regulations for margin transactions, Schwab,
in the  event of such an  adverse  change,  requires  the  customer  to  deposit
additional  securities or cash, so that the amount of the customer's  obligation
is not greater than  specified  percentages of the cash and market values of the
securities in the account. As a matter of policy,  Schwab generally requires its
customers to maintain higher  percentages of collateral  values than the minimum
percentages required under these regulations.
     Schwab may use cash  balances in customer  accounts to extend margin credit
to other  customers.  Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Rule  15c3-3  under the
Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  the portion of such cash balances not used to
extend margin credit  (increased or decreased by certain other  customer-related
balances) must be held in segregated investment accounts.  The balances in these
segregated  investment  accounts must be invested in qualified  interest-bearing
securities. To the extent customer cash balances are available for use by Schwab
at interest  costs  lower than  Schwab's  costs of  borrowing  from  alternative
sources,  Schwab's cost of funds is reduced and its net income is enhanced. Such
interest savings  contribute  substantially to Schwab's  profitability and, if a
significant  reduction  of  customer  cash  balances  were  to  occur,  Schwab's
borrowings from other sources may have to increase and such profitability  would
decline.  To the extent Schwab's  customers elect to have cash balances in their
brokerage  accounts swept into certain  SchwabFunds(R)  money market funds,  the
cash balances  available to Schwab for investments or for financing margin loans
are reduced.  However,  Schwab receives mutual fund service fees from such funds
based upon average daily invested balances.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition -- Risk  Management" in the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" in this report.

     Mutual Funds.  Schwab's Mutual Fund Marketplace(R)  provides customers with
the  ability  to invest in over  1,900  third-party  mutual  funds from 316 fund
families. Within the Mutual Fund Marketplace,  Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource(R)
service  enables  customers to trade 1,143  mutual funds from 208 fund  families
without incurring transaction fees.
     Schwab's Mutual Fund OneSource  service allows investors to access multiple
mutual fund companies,  avoid brokerage transaction fees, and achieve investment
diversity  among  fund  families.  In  addition,  investors'  recordkeeping  and
investment  monitoring are simplified through one consolidated  statement.  Fees
received  by  Schwab  for  providing  services,   including   recordkeeping  and
shareholder services,  from the Mutual Fund OneSource program are based upon the
daily balances of customer  assets invested in the  participating  funds through
Schwab and are paid by the funds and/or fund sponsors.  Customer  assets held by
Schwab  that have been  purchased  through the Mutual  Fund  OneSource  service,
excluding SchwabFunds, totaled $102.3 billion at the end of 1999.
     Customer assets invested in Schwab's Mutual Fund Marketplace, excluding the
Mutual Fund OneSource service,  totaled $74.3 billion at the end of 1999. Schwab
charges a transaction  fee on trades placed in the funds  included in the Mutual
Fund Marketplace  (except on trades through the Mutual Fund OneSource  service).
These fees are  recorded  as  commission  revenues.  Commissions  from  customer
transactions in mutual fund shares comprised 6% of total commission  revenues in
1999 and 7% in both 1998 and 1997.
     In  addition to the  third-party  funds  available  through the Mutual Fund
Marketplace,  Schwab offers a family of  proprietary  funds,  referred to as the
SchwabFunds.  SchwabFunds  include money market funds,  equity index funds, bond
funds,  asset allocation  funds, and funds that primarily invest in stock,  bond
and money  market  funds.  Qualifying  Schwab  customers  may elect to have cash
balances  in  their  brokerage  accounts   automatically   invested  in  certain
SchwabFunds money market funds. Customer assets invested in the SchwabFunds were
$107.9  billion  at the end of  1999.  Fees  received  by the  Company  from the
SchwabFunds,  for  providing  transfer  agent  services,  shareholder  services,
administration and investment  management,  are based upon the daily balances of
customer assets invested in these funds.

     Services  for  Independent   Investment  Managers.   The  Company  provides
custodial,  trading and  support  services to  independent  investment  managers
through the Institutional  Investor segment. To attract the business of accounts
managed by these managers,  Schwab has a dedicated  business unit which includes
experienced   registered   representatives   assigned  to  individual  managers.
Independent  investment  managers  participating  in this  program  who  custody
customer accounts at Schwab may use SchwabLink(R),  the SchwabLink Web(TM) site,
and  the  Managed  Account   Connection(TM).   SchwabLink  is  a  computer-based
information  network which  enables  investment  managers to access  information
about their customers'  accounts  directly from Schwab's computer systems and to
enter their customers' trades online. The SchwabLink Web site enables investment
managers to use the Internet to communicate  directly with Schwab service teams,
as well as receive news and information.  The Managed Account Connection enables
investment  managers to provide their clients with personalized equity portfolio
management  by a  variety  of  institutional  asset  managers.  In 1999,  Schwab
launched  the  Signature   Services   Alliance(TM),   which  provides   enhanced
personalized services to customers of investment managers, including access to a
dedicated team of representatives  and a new Schwab  Institutional Web site(TM).
During 1999,  Schwab customer assets held in accounts  managed by  approximately
5,800 active independent investment managers increased $66.7 billion, or 46%, to
a total of $213.1  billion.  Independent  investment  managers  generated 11% of
total commission revenues in 1999 and 12% in both 1998 and 1997.
     In November  1999,  the  Company  began to provide  independent  investment
managers  with flat-fee  pricing for Internet  trades.  This price  reduction is
designed to enhance the Company's  competitive position and to align the pricing
of Internet trades for independent investment managers with that offered to most
of the Company's  individual  customers.  See also "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis  of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  --  Revenues  --
Commissions"  in the  Company's  1999 Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

     Retirement Plan Services.  The Company  provides 401(k)  recordkeeping  and
other  retirement  plan services  through the  Institutional  Investor  segment.
Schwab serves company 401(k) plans directly  through a dedicated sales force, as
well as indirectly  through  alliances  with  national and regional  third-party
administrators.   In  the  direct  channel,   SchwabPlan(R)   is  the  Company's
comprehensive 401(k) retirement plan, which offers plan sponsors a wide array of
investment options,  participant education and servicing,  trustee services, and
participant-level  recordkeeping.  During 1999,  Schwab continued to develop its
retirement plan services business,  with customer assets in corporate retirement
plans growing $8.6 billion, or 44%, to $28.3 billion.

     Market-Making    Activities.    Market-making    activities    in   Nasdaq,
exchange-listed  and other securities are conducted  through the Capital Markets
segment.  SCM provides trade execution  services in Nasdaq and other  securities
primarily to broker-dealers, including Schwab, and institutional customers. As a
market maker in Nasdaq and other  securities,  SCM generally  executes  customer
trades as principal.  While  substantially all Nasdaq security trades originated
by the customers of Schwab are directed to SCM, a  substantial  portion of SCM's
trading volume comes from parties other than Schwab.
     Schwab has specialist operations on the Pacific Exchange,  the Boston Stock
Exchange and the Cincinnati  Stock  Exchange to make markets in  exchange-listed
securities.  The  majority of trades  originated  by the  customers of Schwab in
exchange-listed securities for which Schwab makes a market are directed to these
operations.  At December 31,  1999,  Schwab had six  specialists  on the Pacific
Exchange,  three specialists on the Boston Stock Exchange and six specialists on
the Cincinnati  Stock Exchange that made markets in 400, 100 and 100 securities,
respectively.
     In the normal course of their market making in Nasdaq,  exchange-listed and
other securities, Schwab and SCM maintain inventories in such securities on both
a long and short basis.  While long inventory  positions  represent Schwab's and
SCM's ownership of securities,  short inventory positions represent  obligations
of Schwab and SCM to deliver specified  securities at a contracted price,  which
may differ  from  market  prices  prevailing  at the time of  completion  of the
transaction.  Accordingly, long or short inventory positions may result in gains
or losses as market values of such securities fluctuate.
     See also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial  Condition -- Risk  Management" in the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report, and "Regulation" in this report.


                         Multi-Channel Delivery Systems

     The Company's  multi-channel delivery systems allow customers to choose how
they prefer to do business  with the Company.  In addition to its branch  office
network, the Company maintains four regional customer telephone service centers,
two online customer  support centers as well as automated  telephonic and online
channels, primarily serving retail investors through the Individual Investor and
Institutional Investor segments.

     Branch Office Network.  At December 31, 1999,  Schwab operated 340 domestic
branch offices in 48 states,  as well as branches in the  Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico and the U.S.  Virgin  Islands.  In  addition,  the  Company  has offices in
Canada,  the Cayman  Islands,  Hong Kong and the United  Kingdom.  The Company's
branch  office  network  plays a key role in  building  its  business.  With the
customer  service  support of regional  customer  telephone  service centers and
automated  telephonic  and online  channels,  branch  personnel  are  focusing a
significant  portion of their time on business  development.  Customers  can use
branch  offices to open  accounts,  deliver and receive  checks and  securities,
obtain market information, place orders, and obtain related customer services in
person, yet most of these activities are conducted by telephone and mail. Branch
offices also provide investors with access to the Internet.

     Regional  Customer  Telephone  Service  Centers.   Schwab's  four  regional
customer telephone service centers, located in Indianapolis, Denver, Phoenix and
Orlando,  handle  customer  trading and service calls  twenty-four  hours-a-day,
seven  days-a-week.  Customer orders placed during nonmarket hours are routed to
appropriate  markets the  following  business  day.  The capacity of the service
centers  allows the branch office  network to be  maintained  at lower  staffing
levels and to focus on business development.
     The Company's  customer  service approach is to use teams led by registered
representatives  in the service  centers,  who work closely  with branch  office
network  personnel.   Additionally,  certain  teams  at  these  centers  provide
specialized services to customers of the Schwab Signature  Services(TM) program.
Each registered  representative has immediate access to the customer account and
market-related  information necessary to respond to customer inquiries. For most
customer orders, registered  representatives can enter the order and confirm the
transaction  immediately.  As a result  of this  approach,  the  departure  of a
registered  representative  generally does not result in a loss of customers for
the Company.

     Automated  Telephonic  and Online  Channels.  Customers  are able to obtain
financial  information  and execute  trades on an  automated  basis  through the
Company's automated telephonic and online channels.  These channels are designed
to provide  added  convenience  for  customers  and minimize  Schwab's  costs of
responding to and processing routine customer transactions.  To assist customers
in using online  channels,  the Company  maintains two online  customer  support
centers that operate both during and after normal market hours.
     Automated telephonic channels include  TeleBroker(R) -- Schwab's touch-tone
telephone  quote and trading  service,  and  VoiceBroker(TM)  -- Schwab's  voice
recognition quote and trading service.  Schwab's automated  telephonic  channels
handled  over 70% of total  customer  calls  received in 1999.  Online  channels
include the Charles Schwab Web Site(TM) -- an information and trading service on
the  Internet  for  individual   investors,   and  PC-based   services  such  as
SchwabLink(R) for independent  investment  managers and Velocity(TM) for certain
of Schwab's customers who trade frequently.  The Company continues to stress the
importance of Clicks and Mortar(TM) access -- blending the power of the Internet
with  personal  service  to  create  a  full-service  customer  experience.  The
Company's online channels  handled 68% of total trades in 1999.  Schwab provides
every retail customer access to all delivery  channels and flat-fee  pricing for
Internet trades.

                               Information Systems

     Schwab's  operations  rely  heavily  on  its  information   processing  and
communications systems.  Schwab's system for processing a securities transaction
is highly automated.  Registered  representatives  equipped with online computer
terminals can access customer account information,  obtain securities prices and
related information, and enter orders online.
     To  support  its  multi-channel   delivery   systems,   as  well  as  other
applications such as clearing functions,  account administration,  recordkeeping
and  direct  customer  access to  investment  information,  Schwab  maintains  a
sophisticated computer network connecting all of the branch offices and regional
customer  telephone service centers.  Schwab's  computers are also linked to the
major  registered  U.S.  securities  exchanges,  SCM,  the  National  Securities
Clearing Corporation and The Depository Trust Company.
     Failure of Schwab's information  processing or communications systems for a
significant  period of time could  limit  Schwab's  ability to process its large
volume of  transactions  accurately  and rapidly.  This could cause Schwab to be
unable to satisfy its obligations to customers and other  securities  firms, and
could result in regulatory violations.
     External events,  such as an earthquake or power failure,  loss of external
information  feeds  such as  security  price  information,  as well as  internal
malfunctions such as those that could occur during the  implementation of system
modifications, could render part or all of such systems inoperative.
     To enhance the  reliability  of the system and  integrity  of data,  Schwab
maintains backup and recovery  functions.  These include logging of all critical
files  intraday,  duplication  and storage of all  critical  data outside of its
central computer site every twenty-four hours, and maintenance of facilities for
backup and  communications.  They also  include  the  maintenance  and  periodic
testing of a disaster recovery plan that management believes would permit Schwab
to recommence essential computer operations if its central computer site were to
become  inaccessible.  To minimize business  interruptions,  the Company has two
data  centers  intended,  in part,  to further  improve the recovery of business
processing in the event of an emergency.  In 1999, the Company announced a joint
effort  with  IBM to  implement  new  systems  technology  intended  to help the
Company's computers share their workload more efficiently. Additionally in 1999,
the  Company's  investment  in systems  capacity,  which  totaled $126  million,
expanded the Company's Web server,  mainframe and data storage capacity by 765%,
225% and 190%, respectively.

     Year 2000 Century Change.  The Company's  mission critical systems operated
throughout the Year 2000 century change without material errors or interruptions
when processing data and  transactions  incorporating  year 2000 dates,  and the
Company did not encounter any material problems with any of its mission critical
vendor-supplied  systems,  services  or  products.   Mission  critical  systems,
services and products means those systems, services and products critical to the
ongoing operation of the business.  For a discussion on the Company's compliance
costs regarding the Year 2000 issue, see  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Results of Operations and Financial Condition -- Year 2000 Century Change" in
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


                        Clearing and Account Maintenance

     Schwab  performs  clearing  services  for all  securities  transactions  in
customer  accounts.  Schwab  clears the vast  majority of customer  transactions
through the facilities of the National  Securities  Clearing  Corporation or the
Options Clearing  Corporation.  Certain other transactions,  such as mutual fund
transactions and transactions in securities not eligible for settlement  through
a clearing  corporation,  are settled  directly  with the mutual  funds or other
financial institutions. Schwab is obligated to settle transactions with clearing
corporations,  mutual funds and other  financial  institutions  even if Schwab's
customer  fails to meet his or her  obligations  to  Schwab.  In  addition,  for
transactions that do not settle through a clearing corporation, Schwab takes the
risk of the other party's failure to settle the trade.  See note "13 - Financial
Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet and Credit Risk" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements in the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which
are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


                                    Employees

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company had full-time, part-time and temporary
employees,  and  persons  employed  on a  contract  basis that  represented  the
equivalent of 18,100 full-time employees.


                                 Risk Management

     The  Company's  business and  activities  expose it to  different  types of
risks.  Proper  identification,  assessment  and  management  of these risks are
essential  to  the  success  and  financial  soundness  of  the  Company.  For a
discussion  on the  Company's  principal  risks  and  some of the  policies  and
procedures for risk identification, assessment and mitigation, see "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition -- Risk
Management"  in the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated  herein by  reference  to  Exhibit  No.  13.1 of this  report,  and
"Information Systems," "Competition" and "Regulation" in this report.


                                   Competition

     The Company faces significant competition from companies seeking to attract
customer financial assets,  including  traditional brokerage firms (particularly
firms that have started providing online trading  services),  discount brokerage
firms, online brokerage firms, mutual fund companies and banks. Certain of these
competitors have greater financial resources than the Company. The consolidation
trend in the financial  services  industry is likely to increase in light of the
new financial  modernization  legislation that becomes  effective in March 2000.
This new legislation allows banks, securities firms and insurance companies more
flexibility to affiliate under one holding company.  These holding companies can
engage in  activities  and  acquire  companies  engaged in  activities  that are
financial  in nature.  The  expansion  and  customer  acceptance  of  conducting
financial  transactions online has also attracted  competition from providers of
online services, software development companies and other providers of financial
services.  Finally,  the growth of online trading has led to the creation of new
ECNs and new  exchanges,  and is causing  major  existing  markets  to  consider
converting to for-profit  status,  all of which may intensify  competition.  The
Company experienced declines in its average commission per revenue trade in 1998
mainly due to the Company's  integration of its online and traditional brokerage
services and reduction of the price of online trades for most of its  customers,
resulting in an increase in the  proportion of trades placed  through its online
channels.  The Company's average  commission per revenue trade declined again in
1999 due to the continued  increase in the  proportion of trades placed  through
its online  channels.  As the  Company  focuses on further  enhancements  to its
electronic  service offering and online trades increase,  average commission per
revenue trade is expected to continue to decline.
     Many brokerage  firms employ  substantial  funds in advertising  and direct
solicitation  of customers to increase their market share of commission  dollars
and other  securities-related  income.  Most discount brokerage firms and online
brokerage  firms charge  commissions  lower than Schwab.  Traditional  brokerage
firms also offer discounted  commissions to selected retail brokerage customers.
In addition,  some  traditional  brokerage firms offer discounted or free online
trades,  usually as part of a fee-based account. Such competition may negatively
impact the Company's customer asset growth, revenue growth and profit margin.
     Management  continues to believe that the key to  sustaining  the Company's
competitive  advantages  will be its ability to combine people and technology in
ways that provide investors with the access,  information,  guidance, advice and
control  they expect -- as well as superior  service -- all at a lower cost than
traditional providers of financial services. Accordingly, the Company expects to
remain in direct  competition with  traditional,  online and discount  brokerage
firms, banks and other providers of financial products and services.


                                   Regulation

     The  securities  industry  in the United  States is  subject  to  extensive
regulation  under both  federal  and state laws.  The SEC is the federal  agency
charged with  administration of the federal  securities laws. Schwab and SCM are
registered as  broker-dealers  with the SEC.  Schwab and CSIM are  registered as
investment  advisors  with the SEC.  Additionally,  Schwab is  regulated  by the
Commodities  Futures  Trading  Commission  (CFTC) with respect to its introduced
futures and commodities trading activities.
     Much  of  the   regulation  of   broker-dealers   has  been   delegated  to
self-regulatory   organizations,   principally   the  National   Association  of
Securities Dealers,  Inc. (NASD) and the national  securities  exchanges such as
the New York Stock  Exchange  (NYSE),  which has been  designated  by the SEC as
Schwab's primary regulator with respect to its securities  activities.  The NASD
has been  designated by the SEC as SCM's primary  regulator  with respect to its
securities activities. The Chicago Board Options Exchange has been designated as
Schwab's  primary  regulator with respect to its options trading  activities for
2000 and 2001.  The NYSE was  designated  as  Schwab's  primary  regulator  with
respect  to its  options  trading  activities  for 1998 and 1999.  The  National
Futures  Association  (NFA) has been designated by the CFTC as Schwab's  primary
regulator with respect to its futures and commodities trading activities.  These
self-regulatory  organizations  adopt  rules  (subject to approval by the SEC or
CFTC)   governing   the   industry   and  conduct   periodic   examinations   of
broker-dealers.  Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by state
securities  authorities in the states in which they do business.  In addition to
its  membership  in the NYSE,  Schwab is also a member of most other  major U.S.
securities exchanges and is consequently subject to their rules and regulations.
Schwab was  registered  as a  broker-dealer  in fifty  states,  the  District of
Columbia  and Puerto Rico as of  December  31,  1999.  SCM was  registered  as a
broker-dealer  in thirty-two  states and the District of Columbia as of December
31, 1999.
     The principal purpose of regulations and discipline of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors is the protection of customers and the securities  markets,
rather than  protection  of creditors and  stockholders  of  broker-dealers  and
investment  advisors.  The  regulations to which  broker-dealers  and investment
advisors are subject  cover all aspects of the  securities  business,  including
sales methods,  trading practices among broker-dealers,  uses and safekeeping of
customers'  funds  and  securities,   capital  structure  of  securities  firms,
recordkeeping and reporting,  fee arrangements,  disclosure to clients,  and the
conduct of directors, officers and employees. As registered investment advisors,
Schwab and CSIM are subject to the  requirements of the Investment  Advisers Act
of 1940 and the  regulations  thereunder,  which  impose,  among  other  things,
various  recordkeeping,   reporting,  and  disclosure  requirements  and  impose
limitations  on fees and  principal  transactions  between  an  advisor  and its
clients.  The  state  securities  law  requirements   applicable  to  registered
investment  advisors are in certain cases more  comprehensive than those imposed
under the federal securities laws.
     Additional  legislation,  changes in rules  promulgated  by the SEC,  other
federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory  organizations,  or
changes in the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of existing  laws and rules may
directly affect the method of operation and profitability of broker-dealers  and
investment advisors. The profitability of broker-dealers and investment advisors
could also be affected by rules and  regulations  which  impact the business and
financial  communities  in  general,  including  changes  to the laws  governing
taxation,   antitrust  regulation  and  electronic  commerce.   The  SEC,  CFTC,
self-regulatory organizations and state securities authorities may conduct civil
or  administrative  proceedings  which can result in  censure,  fine,  cease and
desist orders,  or suspension or expulsion of a  broker-dealer  or an investment
advisor,  its officers,  or  employees.  Schwab and SCM have been the subject of
such administrative proceedings.
     Certain SEC rules and rule  amendments,  known as the Order Handling Rules,
have  significantly  altered  the  manner in which  orders  for both  Nasdaq and
exchange-listed  securities are handled.  These rules were implemented in phases
between January 20, 1997 and October 13, 1997. Additionally,  in June 1997, most
major U.S. securities markets,  including Nasdaq and the NYSE, began quoting and
trading most securities in increments of one-sixteenth  dollar per share instead
of one-eighth dollar per share.  Mainly as a result of these regulatory  changes
and changes in  industry  practices,  SCM's  average  revenue  per share  traded
declined  from  3.3(cent) in 1997 to 2.5(cent) in 1998.  However,  SCM's average
revenue per share traded  increased  to  2.8(cent)  in 1999.  An increase in the
market price volatility of technology stocks in 1999 contributed to SCM's higher
average  revenue  per share  traded.  The major  U.S.  securities  markets  have
announced  that they intend to begin  quoting and trading  securities in decimal
increments. The SEC continues to discuss with the self-regulatory  organizations
a viable decimal  pricing  implementation  date.  This change is likely to cause
decreases  in average  revenue  per share  traded,  will only affect the Capital
Markets  segment  and,  based  on  management's  expectations,  will  not have a
material impact on that segment's  revenues.  See also "Management's  Discussion
and Analysis of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition -- Revenues --
Principal  Transactions"  in the Company's  1999 Annual Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     As registered broker-dealers and NASD member organizations,  Schwab and SCM
are  required by federal  law to belong to the  Securities  Investor  Protection
Corporation  (SIPC),  which  provides,  in the  event  of the  liquidation  of a
broker-dealer,  protection for securities held in customer  accounts held by the
firm of up to $500,000 per  customer,  subject to a  limitation  of $100,000 for
claims  of cash  balances.  SIPC is funded  through  assessments  on  registered
broker-dealers.  In addition,  Schwab  purchased  from a private  surety company
additional account protection for customers, as defined, of up to the net equity
value for customer  securities in each account,  of which  $900,000 is available
for claims of cash balances.  Stocks, bonds, mutual funds and money market funds
are considered securities for the purposes of SIPC protection and the additional
protection (i.e.,  protected securities may either be replaced or converted into
an equivalent market value as of the date a SIPC trustee is appointed).  Neither
SIPC  protection nor the additional  protection  applies to  fluctuations in the
market value of securities.
     Schwab  is  authorized  by the  Municipal  Securities  Rulemaking  Board to
conduct  transactions in municipal securities on behalf of its customers and has
obtained  certain  additional  registrations  with the SEC and state  regulatory
agencies necessary to permit it to engage in certain other activities incidental
to its brokerage business.
     Margin  lending by Schwab  and SCM is  subject  to the margin  rules of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the NYSE. Under such rules,
broker-dealers  are  limited  in the  amount  they may lend in  connection  with
certain  purchases and short sales of securities and are also required to impose
certain  maintenance  requirements  on the amount of securities and cash held in
margin accounts. In addition, those rules and rules of the Chicago Board Options
Exchange  govern the amount of margin  customers  must  provide and  maintain in
writing uncovered options.
     As a California  state-chartered trust company, CSTC is primarily regulated
by the  State of  California  Department  of  Financial  Institutions.  Since it
provides  employee benefit plan trust services,  CSTC is also required to comply
with  the  Employee   Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974  (ERISA)  and,
consequently,  is subject to oversight by both the Internal  Revenue Service and
Department  of Labor.  CSTC is required  under ERISA to maintain a fidelity bond
for the protection of employee benefit trusts for which it serves as trustee.
     The Company's  business is also subject to  regulation by various  non-U.S.
governments,  securities exchanges and regulatory bodies,  particularly in those
countries  where it has  acquired  subsidiaries.  Such  regulation  may directly
affect  the method of  operation  and  profitability  of the  Company's  foreign
operations.
     CSE is  registered  as a  broker-dealer  with the  Securities  and  Futures
Authority in the United Kingdom.
     Charles  Schwab,  Hong Kong,  Ltd.  (CSHK)  and  Charles  Schwab  Hong Kong
Securities  Limited  (CSHKS) are  subsidiaries  of CSC.  CSHK is registered as a
securities  dealer and commodity trading advisor with the Securities and Futures
Commission in Hong Kong (SFC).  CSHKS is registered as a securities  dealer with
the SFC and also as an Exchange  Participant  of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong
Limited; however, CSHKS has not yet commenced operations.
     CS Canada is a  broker-dealer  in Canada and is regulated under the laws of
the Canadian  provinces by securities  commissions and by the Investment Dealers
Association  of Canada.  CS Canada is also a member of the Toronto and  Winnipeg
Stock Exchanges and is subject to their rules and regulations.
     CSTMS is a securities firm licensed and regulated by the Japanese  Ministry
of Finance; however, CSTMS has not yet commenced operations.


                Potential Bank Holding Company Act Requirements

     Upon  consummation of the transaction  with U.S. Trust, the Company expects
to become a financial holding company,  subject to Federal Reserve  supervision,
under the Bank  Holding  Company Act of 1956,  as amended.  The  transaction  is
subject to Federal  Reserve  Board and other  regulatory  approvals  and to U.S.
Trust's shareholder  approval.  If such regulatory and shareholder approvals are
obtained,  the  Company  will be required  to limit its  business  to  financial
services.  It may be required to maintain  capital at certain levels which could
affect its ability to pay dividends.  Under certain  circumstances,  the Company
may be  required to provide  additional  capital to its  subsidiaries,  and such
subsidiaries  may be prohibited  from paying  dividends.  Additionally,  Federal
Reserve Board approval will be required for certain changes in control of CSC.


                            Net Capital Requirements

     As registered broker-dealers, Schwab and SCM are subject to the Uniform Net
Capital Rule (Rule  15c3-1) under the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 (the Net
Capital Rule), which has also been adopted through incorporation by reference in
NYSE Rule 325. The CFTC and NFA also impose net capital requirements.  Schwab is
a member firm of the NYSE, the NASD and the NFA, and SCM is a member firm of the
NASD. The Net Capital Rule specifies  minimum net capital  requirements that are
intended  to  ensure  the  general   financial   soundness   and   liquidity  of
broker-dealers.  Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm
to suspension or expulsion by the NYSE and the NASD, certain punitive actions by
the SEC and  other  regulatory  bodies,  and  ultimately  may  require  a firm's
liquidation.  Because CSC itself is not a  registered  broker-dealer,  it is not
subject to the Net Capital Rule. However, if Schwab failed to maintain specified
levels of net  capital,  such  failure  would  constitute a default by CSC under
certain debt covenants.
     "Net   capital"  is   essentially   defined  as  net  worth  (assets  minus
liabilities),  plus qualifying subordinated borrowings,  less certain deductions
that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and
from  conservatively  valuing  certain other assets.  These  deductions  include
charges  that  discount  the value of firm  security  positions  to reflect  the
possibility of adverse changes in market value prior to disposition.
     The Net Capital Rule requires  notice of equity  capital  withdrawals to be
provided to the SEC prior to and  subsequent to  withdrawals  exceeding  certain
sizes. Such rule prohibits  withdrawals that would reduce a broker-dealer's  net
capital to an amount less than 25% of its deductions required by the Net Capital
Rule as to its  security  positions.  The Net Capital  Rule also allows the SEC,
under limited circumstances, to restrict a broker-dealer from withdrawing equity
capital for up to twenty business days.
     Schwab and SCM have elected the  alternative  method of  calculation  under
paragraph  (a)(1)(ii) of the Net Capital Rule, which requires a broker-dealer to
maintain  minimum  net  capital  equal  to 2% of its  "aggregate  debit  items,"
computed  in  accordance   with  the  Formula  for   Determination   of  Reserve
Requirements for Brokers and Dealers (Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934).  "Aggregate  debit  items"  are assets  that have as their  source
transactions  with  customers,  primarily  margin loans.  Under the  alternative
method of the Net Capital Rule, a  broker-dealer  may not (a) pay, or permit the
payment or withdrawal of, any subordinated  borrowings or (b) pay cash dividends
or permit equity  capital to be removed if, after giving effect to such payment,
withdrawal,  or removal,  its net capital would be less than 5% of its aggregate
debit items.
     Under NYSE Rule 326,  Schwab is required to reduce its  business if its net
capital  is less  than  4% of  aggregate  debit  items  for  more  than  fifteen
consecutive  business  days;  NYSE  Rule 326 also  prohibits  the  expansion  of
business if net capital is less than 5% of  aggregate  debit items for more than
fifteen  consecutive  business days. The provisions of NYSE Rule 326 also become
operative if capital withdrawals (including scheduled maturities of subordinated
borrowings  during the  following  six months)  would result in a reduction of a
firm's net capital to the levels indicated.
     If compliance  with  applicable net capital rules were to limit Schwab's or
SCM's  operations and their ability to repay  subordinated  debt to CSC, this in
turn could limit CSC's  ability to repay debt,  pay cash  dividends and purchase
shares of its outstanding stock. See also "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Results of  Operations  and  Financial  Condition  --  Liquidity  and Capital
Resources --  Liquidity" in the  Company's  1999 Annual Report to  Stockholders,
which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     At December 31, 1999,  Schwab was required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net Capital  Rule of $345  million and had total net capital of $1,766
million.  At  December  31,  1999,  the  amounts  in  excess of 2%, 4% and 5% of
aggregate  debit items were $1,421  million,  $1,076  million and $903  million,
respectively.  Aggregate  debit  balances as of  December  29, 1999 were used to
calculate  Schwab's  minimum  required  net capital at  December  31,  1999,  in
accordance with applicable regulations.
     At December  31,  1999,  SCM was  required to maintain  minimum net capital
under the Net  Capital  Rule of $1  million  and had total  net  capital  of $13
million.  At December 31, 1999, the amount in excess of its minimum required net
capital was $12 million.


Item 2.       Properties

     The Company's corporate  headquarters are located in a 28-story building at
101  Montgomery  Street in San  Francisco,  California.  The  building  contains
296,000  square feet and is leased by Schwab  under a term  expiring in the year
2010.  Schwab has three successive  five-year options to renew the lease at then
current market rates.  Schwab also has a lease for 398,000 square feet of office
space located at 211 Main Street in San Francisco, California. The lease expires
in 2018 and  includes  two ten-year  extension  options at then  current  market
rates.  In addition to these  locations,  Schwab leases space in other buildings
for its San Francisco  operations,  including its principal executive offices at
120  Kearny  Street,   aggregating   1,103,000  additional  square  feet.  SCM's
headquarters are located in leased office space in Jersey City, New Jersey.
     All of the  Company's  branch  offices  are  located  in  leased  premises,
generally  with lease  expiration  dates five to ten years  from  inception.  In
addition,  the Company has four regional customer telephone service centers. The
Company  owns the  service  centers  located in Phoenix and  Indianapolis,  with
288,000 and  164,000  square  feet,  respectively.  The  Company  also leases an
additional  148,000  square  feet as part of its  Phoenix  service  center.  The
Company leases the service centers  located in Denver and Orlando,  with 328,000
and 226,000 square feet, respectively.
     The Company owns its two primary data center facilities  located in Phoenix
totaling  147,000 square feet.
     While  the  corporate  headquarters  and  data  centers  support all of the
Company's segments, the branch offices and service centers primarily support the
Individual  Investor and Institutional  Investor segments and SCM's headquarters
supports the Capital Markets segment.


Item 3.       Legal Proceedings

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in  note  "12  -  Commitments  and  Contingent  Liabilities"  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to
Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of
this report.


Item 4.       Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     No matters  were  submitted  to a vote of the  Company's  security  holders
during the fourth quarter of 1999.




                                     PART II


Item 5.       Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
              Stockholder Matters

     The Company's  common stock is listed on the NYSE and the Pacific  Exchange
under the ticker symbol SCH. The number of common  stockholders  of record as of
March 6, 2000 was 9,996.  The  closing  market  price per share on that date was
$47.69.
     The other  information  required to be  furnished  pursuant to this item is
included in "Quarterly Financial Information  (Unaudited)" in the Company's 1999
Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which is  incorporated  herein by reference to
Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.


Item 6.       Selected Financial Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Selected  Financial and Operating  Data" in the Company's 1999 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


Item 7.       Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
              Results of Operations

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition"  in the  Company's  1999  Annual  Report  to  Stockholders,  which is
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.
     Average balances  and interest  rates for the fourth  quarters  of 1999 and
1998 are  summarized  as follows (dollars in millions):




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              Three Months Ended
                                                                 December 31,
                                                              1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest-Earning Assets (customer-related):
Margin loans to customers:
  Average balance outstanding                                 $14,982    $ 9,048
  Average interest rate                                         7.83%      7.54%
Investments:
  Average balance outstanding                                 $ 8,415    $ 8,895
  Average interest rate                                         5.01%      4.95%
Average yield on interest-earning assets                        6.82%      6.25%
Funding Sources (customer-related and other):
Interest-bearing customer cash balances:
  Average balance outstanding                                 $18,701    $14,586
  Average interest rate                                         4.29%      4.13%
Other interest-bearing sources:
  Average balance outstanding                                 $ 1,497    $ 1,305
  Average interest rate                                         4.25%      3.75%
Average noninterest-bearing portion                           $ 3,199    $ 2,052
Average interest rate on funding sources                        3.70%      3.63%
Summary:
  Average yield on interest-earning assets                      6.82%      6.25%
  Average interest rate on funding sources                      3.70%      3.63%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average net interest margin                                     3.12%      2.62%
================================================================================

     The increase in interest revenue, net of interest expense,  from the fourth
quarter of 1998 to the fourth quarter of 1999 was primarily due to higher levels
of margin loans to customers,  partially  offset by higher average customer cash
balances.
     Equipment,   office   facilities   and  property  are  detailed  below  (in
thousands):

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 December 31,
                                                              1999          1998
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land                                                       $   14,674   $ 14,674
Buildings                                                      95,725     90,626
Leasehold improvements                                        210,557    155,428
Furniture and equipment                                       135,096    105,168
Telecommunications equipment                                  126,778    100,994
Information technology equipment and software                 532,652    373,226
Construction in progress                                       56,934      7,696
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Subtotal                                                 1,172,416    847,812
Accumulated depreciation and amortization                     574,655    451,649
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                                   $  597,761   $396,163
================================================================================

Item 7A.      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition -- Risk Management -- Market Risk" in the Company's 1999 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which is incorporated  herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.

Item 8.       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The information  required to be furnished pursuant to this item is included
in the Consolidated  Financial Statements and "Quarterly  Financial  Information
(Unaudited)"  in the  Company's  1999 Annual Report to  Stockholders,  which are
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report.

Item 9.       Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
              Financial Disclosure

     None.


                                    PART III


Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  information  relating  to  directors  of the  Company  required  to be
furnished  pursuant to this item is  incorporated  by reference from portions of
the Company's  definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders
to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A by April 29, 2000 (the Proxy
Statement)  under  "The  Board  of  Directors"  and  "Section  16(a)  Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance."

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The  following  table  provides  certain  information  about  each  of  the
Company's  current  executive  officers.  Executive  officers are elected by and
serve at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors. However, Mr. Schwab
has an employment  agreement with the Company through March 2004, which includes
an automatic  renewal  feature that, as of each March 31,  extends the agreement
for an additional year unless either party elects to not extend the agreement.








     Mr. Schwab has been Co-Chief  Executive  Officer of the Company since 1998,
and Chairman and a director of the Company since its  incorporation in 1986. Mr.
Schwab was Chief Executive  Officer of the Company from 1986 to 1997. Mr. Schwab
was a founder of Schwab in 1971 and has been its Chairman since 1978. Mr. Schwab
is currently a director of The Gap, Inc.;  Siebel Systems,  Inc., a company that
provides support for software systems;  and Vodafone AirTouch Plc. Mr. Schwab is
also a trustee of The Charles Schwab Family of Funds, Schwab Investments, Schwab
Capital  Trust  and  Schwab  Annuity  Portfolios,   all  registered   investment
companies.  In 1999,  Mr.  Schwab was named a director  of  AudioBase,  Inc.,  a
company that provides music and voice to Internet  publishers,  advertisers  and
marketers.

     Mr. Pottruck has been Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company since 1998,
director of the Company since 1994, and President of the Company since 1992. Mr.
Pottruck  was Chief  Operating  Officer of the  Company  from 1994 to 1998.  Mr.
Pottruck has been Chief Executive  Officer of Schwab since 1992 and President of
Schwab since 1988  (except for the period  September  1997 to April  1998).  Mr.
Pottruck  joined Schwab in 1984.  Mr.  Pottruck is currently a director of Intel
Corporation,  a maker of  microcomputer  components  and related  products;  and
Preview  Travel,  Inc., an online travel  services  provider;  and serves on the
Federal Advisory  Commission on Electronic  Commerce.  In 1999, Mr. Pottruck was
elected to the Board of  Governors  of the National  Association  of  Securities
Dealers, Inc. Additionally, Mr. Pottruck was named a director of Epoch Partners,
Inc. in 1999 and DoveBid, Inc., an auctioneer and capital asset sale advisor, in
January 2000.

     Ms. Chang has been Enterprise  President - Retail Business  Development and
Branch Network of Schwab and Executive Vice President of the Company since 1997.
Ms. Chang was Executive  Vice  President - Retail Branch  Network of the Company
and Schwab from 1996 to 1997 and Senior Vice  President - Retail Branch  Network
of the Company and Schwab from 1994 to 1996. Ms. Chang joined Schwab in 1994.

     Mr.  Coghlan has been Vice  Chairman  of the Company and Schwab  since July
1999,  Enterprise  President - Services for Investment  Managers of Schwab since
1998,  Enterprise  President - Retirement Plan Services of Schwab since 1997 and
Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1992.  Mr. Coghlan was Executive
Vice President of Schwab and General Manager of Schwab  Institutional  from 1992
to 1997. Mr. Coghlan joined Schwab in 1986.

     Ms. Deily has been Vice Chairman of the Company and Schwab since July 1999,
President - Retail Group of Schwab since 1998 and  Executive  Vice  President of
the  Company  since  1997.  Ms.  Deily was  Enterprise  President - Services for
Investment Managers of Schwab from 1997 to 1998 and Executive Vice President and
General Manager-Services for Investment Managers of  the Company and Schwab from
1996 to 1997.  Before joining Schwab in 1996, Ms. Deily was Chairman,  President
and Chief Executive Officer of First Interstate Bank of Texas from 1991 to 1996.

     Mr. Dodds has been Chief Financial  Officer of the Company and Schwab since
July 1999 and Executive Vice President of the Company and Schwab since 1998. Mr.
Dodds was  Corporate  Controller of Schwab from 1997 to March 1999 and Corporate
Treasurer of Schwab from 1993 to 1997. Mr. Dodds joined Schwab in 1986.

     Ms. Dwyer has been General  Counsel and Corporate  Secretary of the Company
and Schwab  since 1997 and  Executive  Vice  President of the Company and Schwab
since 1996. Before joining Schwab in 1996, Ms. Dwyer was Senior Counselor to the
Chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from 1993 to 1996.

     Mr.  Gorman has been Vice  Chairman of the  Company  and Schwab  since July
1999, Enterprise President - Capital Markets and Trading of Schwab and Executive
Vice  President  of the  Company  since  1997.  Mr.  Gorman was  Executive  Vice
President  - Capital  Markets and Trading of the Company and Schwab from 1996 to
1997.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1996,  Mr.  Gorman was a Managing  Director of
Credit  Suisse  First  Boston  Corporation  from  1988 to 1996.  Mr.  Gorman  is
currently a director of the Securities Industry Association.  Additionally,  Mr.
Gorman was named a director of REDIBook ECN LLC in 1999 and  CyBerCorp,  Inc. in
March 2000.

     Mr. Leemon has been Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy  Officer of
the Company and Schwab since 1995.  Before  joining  Schwab in 1995,  Mr. Leemon
held various  positions  with The Boston  Consulting  Group,  Inc., a management
consulting firm, from 1989 to 1995, including Vice President from 1990.

     Ms. Lepore has been Vice Chairman of the Company and Schwab since July 1999
and Executive Vice President of the Company and Chief Information Officer of the
Company and Schwab since 1993. Ms. Lepore was Executive Vice President of Schwab
from 1993 to July 1999. Ms. Lepore joined Schwab in 1983. Ms. Lepore was named a
director of eBay Inc. in January 2000 and currently  serves as a director of the
Times Mirror Company.

     Ms. Lyons has been Chief Marketing Officer of Schwab since January 2000 and
Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1997.  Ms. Lyons was  Enterprise
President  - Retail  Client  Services  of  Schwab  from  1997 to  January  2000,
Executive Vice President - Retail  Marketing of the Company and Schwab from 1996
to 1997,  and Senior Vice  President  - Active  Trader of the Company and Schwab
from 1994 to 1996. Ms. Lyons joined Schwab in 1992.

     Mr.  McGonigle  has  been  Executive  Vice  President  of the  Company  and
Executive  Vice  President  - Mutual  Funds of  Schwab  since  April  1999.  Mr.
McGonigle was Executive Vice  President - Third-Party  Funds of Schwab from 1998
to March 1999,  Senior Vice President - Third-Party Funds of Schwab from 1996 to
1998,  and Senior Vice  President of Fund Relations of Schwab from 1994 to 1996.
Mr. McGonigle joined Schwab in 1989.

     Mr. Rich has been  Executive  Vice  President of the Company and  Executive
Vice President - Human Resources of Schwab since 1998.  Before joining Schwab in
1998, Mr. Rich was Senior Vice President of  Williams-Sonoma,  Inc. from 1995 to
1998. Mr. Rich was Vice President - Human Resources of Kenetech  Corporation,  a
company that  develops and operates  independent  power  projects,  from 1994 to
1995.  Mr. Rich is  currently  on the San  Francisco  Committee on Jobs and is a
Director to the Advisory Board of Pacific Crest Outward Bound School.

     Mr. Rosseau has been  Executive  Vice President and Enterprise  President -
International  of the Company and Schwab since February  2000.  Prior to joining
Schwab, Mr. Rosseau was Chief Executive Officer of ETC Services,  Inc. from 1998
to February  2000.  Mr.  Rosseau was  President and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Deluxe  Electronic  Payment  Systems,  Inc.  from 1996 to 1998 and  Senior  Vice
President of Deluxe  Corporation  from 1996 to 1998. Mr. Rosseau was Chairman of
Diners Club  International  Ltd., and President and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Diners Club North America and Europe from 1991 to 1996. Mr.  Rosseau  previously
served as Senior Vice President - Retail Service Delivery of Schwab from 1987 to
1988.

     Mr. Sasson has been Enterprise  President - Electronic  Brokerage of Schwab
and Executive  Vice  President of the Company since 1997.  Mr. Sasson was Senior
Vice  President -  Electronic  Brokerage  of the Company and Schwab from 1995 to
1997. Before joining Schwab in 1995, Mr. Sasson was Vice President - Information
Services of International  Business Machines Corporation in 1995. Mr. Sasson was
Vice  President,  Systems  Engineering  of FYI  Online,  a joint  venture of MCI
Communications Corporation and Equifax, Inc., from 1992 to 1995.

     Ms. Sawi has been Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
of the  Company  and Schwab  since  August  1999.  Ms.  Sawi  returned to Schwab
full-time  in August  1999 after a  fifteen-month  sabbatical  during  which she
worked for Schwab part-time on several  projects.  Prior to her sabbatical,  Ms.
Sawi was  Executive  Vice  President -  Electronic  Brokerage of the Company and
Schwab from 1995 to 1997, Executive Vice President - Mutual Funds of the Company
and Schwab,  and President of CSIM from 1994 to 1995.  Ms. Sawi joined Schwab in
1982.

     Mr.  Scheid has been Vice  Chairman of the  Company  and Schwab  since July
1999,  Executive  Vice  President  of the  Company  since  1996  and  Enterprise
President - Financial Products and Services of Schwab since 1998. Mr. Scheid was
Executive  Vice President of Schwab and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company
and Schwab from 1996 to July 1999. Before joining Schwab in 1996, Mr. Scheid was
Executive  Vice  President of Finance of First  Interstate  Bancorp from 1994 to
1996 and was Principal Financial Officer from 1995 to 1996.


Item 11.      Executive Compensation

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from portions of the Proxy  Statement under "Director
Compensation,"   "Summary   Compensation   Table,"  "Option  Grants,"   "Options
Exercised,"   "Compensation   Committee  Report,"  "Certain  Transactions,"  and
"Appendix A -- Description of Employment and Severance Agreements."


Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated by reference from portions of the Proxy Statement under  "Principal
Stockholders."


Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The  information  required  to  be  furnished  pursuant  to  this  item  is
incorporated  by reference from a portion of the Proxy  Statement under "Certain
Transactions."



                                    PART IV


Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

     (a) Documents filed as part of this Report

     1. Financial Statements

     The financial  statements and independent  auditors' report are included in
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1 of this report and are listed below:

         Consolidated Statement of Income
         Consolidated Balance Sheet
         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
         Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         Independent Auditors' Report

     2. Financial Statement Schedules

     The financial statement schedules required to be furnished pursuant to this
item are listed in the accompanying index appearing on page F-1.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1999.





(c)  Exhibits

     The exhibits  listed below are filed as part of this annual  report on Form
10-K.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Exhibit
  Number                                Exhibit
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     2.1  Agreement  and Plan of Merger  dated as of January  12,  2000,  by and
          among The Charles Schwab  Corporation,  Patriot Merger Corporation and
          U.S. Trust Corporation,  filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Form
          8-K dated January 12, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.

     3.7  Third  Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation,  as amended on May 6,
          1996, of the Registrant, filed as Exhibit 3.7 to the Registrant's Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.

     3.9  Second  Restated  Bylaws,  as amended on September  22,  1998,  of the
          Registrant  (supersedes  Exhibit  3.8)  filed  as  Exhibit  3.9 to the
          Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended  September 30, 1998 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

    3.10  Fourth Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective July 30, 1999,
          of the  Registrant,  which  includes  amendments  through May 20, 1999
          (supersedes  Exhibit 3.7),  filed as Exhibit 3.10 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1999 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.

     4.2  Neither  the  Registrant  nor  its  subsidiaries  are  parties  to any
          instrument  with  respect  to  long-term  debt  for  which  securities
          authorized thereunder exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant
          and its  subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis.  Copies of instruments
          with respect to long-term  debt of lesser  amounts will be provided to
          the SEC upon request.

    10.4  Form of  Release  Agreement  dated as of March  31,  1987  among  BAC,
          Registrant,  Schwab  Holdings,  Inc.,  Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc. and
          former shareholders of Schwab Holdings, Inc.                         *

   10.20  License  Agreements  dated April 18,  1979 and April 11, 1983  between
          International  Business Machines Corporation and Charles Schwab & Co.,
          Inc.                                                                 *

   10.22  License  Agreement  dated as of February 28, 1979 between Applied Data
          Research,  Inc. and Beta Systems, Inc. and Assignment,  dated February
          21, 1979.                                                            *

   10.23  License  Agreement dated as of February 21, 1979 between Beta Systems,
          Inc. and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                                  *

   10.25  333 Bush Street  Office  Lease  dated July 29,  1987  between 333 Bush
          Street Associates and Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.                     *

   10.57  Registration  Rights  and  Stock  Restriction  Agreement,  dated as of
          March 31, 1987,  between the  Registrant and the holders of the Common
          Stock,  filed as Exhibit 4.23 to Registrant's  Registration  Statement
          No. 33-16192 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.

   10.72  Restatement  of Assignment and License,  as amended  January 25, 1988,
          among  Charles  Schwab  &  Co.,  Inc.,   Charles  R.  Schwab  and  the
          Registrant.

   10.87  Trust  Agreement  under the Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee
          Stock Ownership Plan, effective  November 1,  1990,  dated October 25,
          1990,  filed as Exhibit  10.87  to  the  Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for
          the  quarter  ended  September 30, 1995  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.101  First Amendment to the Trust Agreement under the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  effective January 1, 1992,
          dated December 20, 1991,  filed as Exhibit 10.101 to the  Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

  10.116  Second  Amendment to the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan  effective  July 1, 1992,
          dated June 30, 1992, filed as Exhibit 10.116 to the Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.120  ESOP  Loan  Agreement,  effective  as of  January  19,  1993,  between
          Registrant  and The Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee Stock
          Ownership Plan and Trust,  filed as Exhibit 10.120 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

  10.138  Form  of   Nonstatutory  Stock  Option   Agreement  for   Non-Employee
          Directors,  filed  as  Exhibit  4.4 to the  Registrant's  Registration
          Statement  No.  33-47842  on  Form  S-8  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.140  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Agreement,  filed as  Exhibit  4.6 to the
          Registrant's  Registration  Statement  No.  33-54701  on Form  S-8 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.146  Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance Plan dated as of January 1,
          1995.                                                                +

  10.149  Employment  Agreement   dated   as  of  March  31,  1995  between  the
          Registrant and Charles R. Schwab.                                    +

  10.156  Agreement  of  Sale,  dated  as of September  18, 1995,  as amended by
          letter  agreement dated September 21, 1995 and by Second  Amendment to
          Agreement of Sale dated September 22, 1995,  between  American Express
          Company and Charles Schwab & Co.,  Inc.,  regarding  American  Express
          Western  Regional  Operations  Center  located at 2423 Lincoln  Drive,
          Phoenix,  Arizona,  filed as Exhibit 10.156 in the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated  herein
          by reference.

  10.157  The Charles Schwab Corporation  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan,
          effective January 1, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.157 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein
          by reference.                                                        +

  10.163  Lease of 101 Montgomery  Street between 101 Montgomery  Street Co. and
          Charles  Schwab & Co., Inc.  dated  October 8, 1996,  filed as Exhibit
          10.163 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.164  Office   Lease  of   Pacific  Telesis  Center  Telesis  Tower  between
          Post-Montgomery  Associates  and  Charles  Schwab  & Co.,  Inc.  dated
          October 4, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.164 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1996 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.

  10.166  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option
          Plan,  restated to include  amendments through February 26, 1997, with
          form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement  (Executive Officer Stock
          Option Plan (1987))  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.159) filed as
          Exhibit  10.166 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                 +

  10.167  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1987 Stock Option Plan,  restated to
          include   amendments   through   February  26,  1997,   with  form  of
          Non-Qualified  Stock Option Agreement  attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.160) filed as Exhibit 10.167 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended March 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

  10.169  Third  Amendment to  the Trust Agreement for the Charles Schwab Profit
          Sharing and Employee Stock  Ownership Plan effective  January 1, 1996,
          dated May 8, 1996 filed as  Exhibit  10.169 to the  Registrant's  Form
          10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.175  Form of Restricted  Shares Award  Agreement with  performance  vesting
          conditions of The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan
          (supersedes   Exhibit   10.155)   filed  as  Exhibit   10.175  to  the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.176  Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock Option Plan  (supersedes Form of Non-Qualified
          Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit  10.167) filed as Exhibit 10.176 to
          the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended June 30, 1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.177  Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.177 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.178  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1987 Stock  Option  Plan  filed as Exhibit  10.178 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-Q  for the  quarter  ended  June  30,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.179  Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan (supersedes Form
          of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement in Exhibit 10.166) filed as
          Exhibit  10.179 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended
          June 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                  +

  10.180  Form of  Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation 1987 Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan filed as Exhibit
          10.180 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter  ended June 30,
          1997 and incorporated herein by reference.                           +

  10.181  Commercial office lease of 211 Main Street between Main Plaza, LLC and
          Charles  Schwab & Co.,  Inc.  dated  August 8, 1997  filed as  Exhibit
          10.181 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.182  The Charles Schwab Corporation Corporate Executive Bonus Plan, amended
          and restated,  effective  January 1, 1996 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.147)
          filed as Exhibit 10.182 to the Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

  10.185  The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Senior  Executive  Severance  Policy,
          effective December 7, 1995 filed as Exhibit 10.185 to the Registrant's
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended  September  30, 1997 and  incorporated
          herein by reference.                                                 +

  10.186  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1987 Stock Option  Plan,  as amended
          October 22, 1997, with form of  Non-Qualified  Stock Option  Agreement
          (General  Management Plan) attached  (supersedes Exhibit 10.160) filed
          as  Exhibit  10.186 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended
          December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.              +

  10.188  The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  Executive  Officer Stock Option Plan
          (1987), as amended October 22, 1997, with form of Non-Qualified  Stock
          Option  Agreement   (Executive   Officer  Stock  Option  Plan  (1987))
          attached,  (supersedes  Exhibit 10.159) filed as Exhibit 10.188 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.189  Annual  Executive  Individual  Performance  Plan  restated and amended
          January 1, 1998 (supersedes Exhibit 10.146) filed as Exhibit 10.189 to
          the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1997 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.190  The Charles Schwab  Corporation  Employee  Stock  Incentive Plan dated
          October 22, 1997 filed as Exhibit 10.190 to the Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.191  Form of Restricted  Shares  Award  Agreement  of  The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.171)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.191 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

  10.192  Form of  Nonstatutory  Stock Option  Agreement  of The Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.172)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.192 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

  10.193  Form of Nonstatutory  Stock Option and  Performance  Unit Agreement of
          The Charles Schwab  Corporation  1992 Stock Incentive Plan (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.173) filed as Exhibit 10.193 to the Registrant's  Form 10-K
          for the year  ended  December  31,  1997 and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.194  Form  of  Incentive  Stock  Option  Agreement  of The  Charles  Schwab
          Corporation  1992 Stock  Incentive Plan  (supersedes  Exhibit  10.174)
          filed as  Exhibit  10.194 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.        +

  10.195  Charles Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan, as
          amended through December 1, 1997 (supersedes  Exhibit 10.168) filed as
          Exhibit  10.195  to the  Registrant's  Form  10-K for the  year  ended
          December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.              +

  10.197  Credit Agreement (364-Day Commitment), between the Registrant and each
          of the banks  listed  therein,  dated as of June 26, 1998  (supersedes
          Exhibit  10.196),  filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the  Registrant's  Current
          Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 17,  1998 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

  10.198  Credit Agreement (3-Year Commitment),  between the Registrant and each
          of the banks  listed  therein,  dated as of June 26, 1998  (supersedes
          Exhibit  10.196),  filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the  Registrant's  Current
          Report  on Form 8-K dated  July 17,  1998 and  incorporated  herein by
          reference.

  10.199  The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred  Compensation Plan, as amended
          through July 24, 1998 (supersedes  Exhibit  10.162),  filed as Exhibit
          10.199 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
          30, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.                       +

  10.200  Form of Indemnification  Agreement entered into between Registrant and
          members of the Board of Directors of  Registrant  (supersedes  exhibit
          10.34),  filed as Exhibit 10.200 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

  10.201  Seventh  Amendment to  the Charles  Schwab Profit Sharing and Employee
          Stock  Ownership  Plan  (Amendments 1 through 6 of the Charles  Schwab
          Profit  Sharing and Employee  Stock  Ownership  Plan are  incorporated
          under Exhibit 10.195,  filed with the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended  December 31, 1997),  filed as Exhibit 10.201 to the
          Registrant's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended  December  31,  1998 and
          incorporated herein by reference.                                    +

  10.202  Fourth  Amendment  to  the  Trust  Agreement  for the  Charles  Schwab
          Profit Sharing and Employee Stock Ownership Plan effective  January 1,
          1998,  filed as Exhibit 10.202 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

  10.203  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated
          to include  Amendments  through  March 20,  1998  (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.187), filed as Exhibit 10.203 to the Registrant's Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.   +

  10.204  The Charles Schwab Corporation Deferred  Compensation Plan, as amended
          through January 20, 1999 (supersedes Exhibit 10.199), filed as Exhibit
          10.204 to the  Registrant's  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
          1999 and incorporated herein by reference.                           +

  10.205  Eighth  Amendment to The  SchwabPlan Retirement Savings and Investment
          Plan  (formerly the Charles  Schwab Profit  Sharing and Employee Stock
          Ownership Plan), filed as Exhibit 10.205 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q
          for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1999  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.                                                           +

  10.206  Credit Agreement (364-Day  Commitment) dated June 25, 1999 between the
          Registrant and the financial  institutions  listed therein (supersedes
          Exhibit 10.197), filed as Exhibit 10.206 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q
          for the  quarter  ended  June 30,  1999  and  incorporated  herein  by
          reference.

  10.207  The Charles Schwab Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, restated  to
          include Amendments through May 17, 1999 (supersedes  Exhibit  10.203),
          filed as Exhibit 10.207 to the Registrant's Form 10-Q for the  quarter
          ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.       +

  10.208  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,  restated
          to include  amendments  through December 15, 1999 (supersedes  Exhibit
          10.207).                                                             +

  10.209  The  Charles  Schwab  Corporation   Directors'  Deferred  Compensation
          Plan,   restated  to  include  amendments  through  October  28,  1999
          (supersedes Exhibit 10.204).                                         +

  10.210  The  SchwabPlan  Retirement Savings  and Investment Plan,  restated to
          include  amendments  through  December 22, 1999  (supersedes  Exhibits
          10.195, 10.201 and 10.205).                                          +

    12.1  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

    13.1  Portions  of The Charles  Schwab  Corporation  1999  Annual  Report to
          Stockholders, which have been incorporated herein by reference. Except
          for such  portions,  such  annual  report is not  deemed to be "filed"
          herewith.

    21.1  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

    23.1  Independent Auditors' Consent.

    27.1  Financial Data Schedule (electronic only).


*  Incorporated by reference to the identically-numbered exhibit to Registrant's
   Registration  Statement  No. 33-16192 on  Form S-1,  as  amended and declared
   effective on September 22, 1987.

+  Management contract or compensatory plan.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                   SIGNATURES
     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 28, 2000.

                                                  THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                                                            (Registrant)


                                                BY: /s/ Charles R. Schwab
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Charles R. Schwab
                                                    Chairman, Co-Chief Executive
                                                     Officer and Director


     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated, on March 28, 2000.


     Signature / Title                         Signature / Title
     -----------------                         -----------------


/s/ Charles R. Schwab                     /s/ David S. Pottruck
- -----------------------------             ------------------------------
Charles R. Schwab,                        David S. Pottruck,
Chairman, Co-Chief Executive Officer      President, Co-Chief Executive Officer
 and Director                              and Director
 (principal executive officer)             (principal executive officer)


/s/ Christopher V. Dodds
- -----------------------------
Christopher V. Dodds,
Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Officer
 (principal financial and
  accounting officer)


/s/ Nancy H. Bechtle                      /s/ C. Preston Butcher
- -----------------------------             ------------------------------
Nancy H. Bechtle, Director                C. Preston Butcher, Director


/s/ Donald G. Fisher                      /s/ Anthony M. Frank
- -----------------------------             ------------------------------
Donald G. Fisher, Director                Anthony M. Frank, Director


/s/ Frank C. Herringer                    /s/ Stephen T. McLin
- -----------------------------             -------------------------------
Frank C. Herringer, Director              Stephen T. McLin, Director


/s/ Condoleezza Rice                      /s/ Arun Sarin
- -----------------------------             -------------------------------
Condoleezza Rice, Director                Arun Sarin, Director


/s/ George P. Shultz                      /s/ Roger O. Walther
- -----------------------------             -------------------------------
George P. Shultz, Director                Roger O. Walther, Director




                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION

                     Index to Financial Statement Schedules


                                                                         Page
                                                                         ----

Independent Auditors' Report                                              F-2

Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant:
                     Condensed Balance Sheet                              F-3
                     Condensed Statement of Income                        F-4
                     Condensed Statement of Cash Flows                    F-5
                     Notes to Condensed Financial Information             F-6

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                           F-7













Schedules not listed are omitted because of the absence of the conditions  under
which they are required or because the  information is included in the Company's
consolidated  financial statements and notes in the Company's 1999 Annual Report
to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No. 13.1
of this report.


                                      F-1





INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS'  REPORT
- ------------------------------



To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
     The Charles Schwab Corporation:


We have audited the  consolidated  financial  statements  of The Charles  Schwab
Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
for each of the three years in the period  ended  December  31,  1999,  and have
issued our report  thereon dated  February 16, 2000 (which  report  expresses an
unqualified  opinion  and  includes  an  explanatory  paragraph  related  to  an
accounting change to conform with Statement of Position 98-1); such consolidated
financial  statements  and report are  included  in your 1999  Annual  Report to
Stockholders and are incorporated herein by reference.  Our audits also included
the  financial  statement  schedules of the Company  listed in the Index at F-1.
These  financial  statement  schedules are the  responsibility  of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, such financial statement schedules,  when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated  financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.





/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
- -------------------------
San Francisco, California
February 16, 2000


                                      F-2







                                      F-3





                                      F-4






                                      F-5




                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                         THE CHARLES SCHWAB CORPORATION
                              (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                    Notes to Condensed Financial Information

1.   Introduction and basis of presentation

     The condensed financial  information of The Charles Schwab Corporation (the
     Parent  Company)  should  be  read in  conjunction  with  the  consolidated
     financial  statements of The Charles Schwab  Corporation  and  subsidiaries
     (the Company) and notes  thereto found in the Company's  1999 Annual Report
     to Stockholders,  which are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit No.
     13.1 of this report.

2.   Supplemental cash flow information

     During 1998, the Parent Company recorded a non-cash capital contribution of
     $69 million to its subsidiary, Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (Schwab), through
     the assumption of indebtedness.

     Certain information  affecting the cash flows of the Parent Company follows
     (in thousands):


                                                      Year ended December 31,
                                                    1999        1998        1997
                                                 -------------------------------

     Income taxes paid                           $11,264     $ 5,539     $ 2,608
                                                 =======     =======     =======
     Interest paid:
         Borrowings                              $25,290     $24,113     $18,773
         Other                                       162         306         364
                                                 -------     -------     -------
     Total interest paid                         $25,452     $24,419     $19,137
                                                 =======     =======     =======
3.   Common stock split

     The Parent Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one common stock
     split,  distributed  July  1999,  effected  in the  form  of a  100%  stock
     dividend.

4.   Related party transactions

     The Parent Company provides subordinated revolving credit facilities to its
     subsidiaries,  Schwab, Schwab Capital Markets L.P. (SCM) (formerly known as
     Mayer & Schweitzer, Inc.) and Charles Schwab Europe (CSE).

     Schwab had a $1,400 million subordinated revolving credit facility maturing
     in September  2001, of which $905 million was  outstanding  at December 31,
     1999.  This credit  facility was $450 million at the end of 1998,  of which
     $405 million was outstanding at December 31, 1998. At year end 1999, Schwab
     also had outstanding $25 million in fixed-rate subordinated term loans from
     the Parent Company maturing in 2001. The outstanding  balance of these term
     loans was also $25 million at year end 1998.

     SCM had a $35 million  subordinated  lending arrangement  maturing in 2001,
     which was not used in 1999 or 1998.  SCM also had a $25 million  short-term
     credit  facility  established  in 1999,  which was not used at December 31,
     1999.

     CSE  had a  (pound)20  million,  equivalent  to $32  million,  subordinated
     lending  arrangement with the Parent Company. At December 31, 1999, CSE had
     outstanding  (pound)18 million under these arrangements,  equivalent to $29
     million,  with  (pound)5  million  maturing in 2001 and  (pound)13  million
     maturing in 2003. This lending arrangement was (pound)5 million, equivalent
     to $8 million, at the end of 1998, all of which was outstanding at December
     31, 1998.

     Interest  earned by the  Parent  Company  from these  subordinated  lending
     arrangements  totaled  $60  million  in 1999,  $37  million in 1998 and $26
     million in 1997.


                                      F-6




                                       F-7


