Item 1. Business





We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating
    the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.All subsequent written or spoken forward-looking statements
    attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are
    expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary
    statements. The forward-looking statements included in this
    Annual Report onForm 10-Kare made only as of the date of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these
    forward-looking statements.



Overview



We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software,
    hardware, and silicon intellectual property, or IP. We license
    software and IP, sell or lease hardware technology and provide
    engineering and education services throughout the world to help
    manage and accelerate electronics product development processes.
    Our customers use our products and services to design and
    develop complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronics
    systems.



We were organized as a Delaware corporation in June 1988. Our
    headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose,
    California 95134. Our telephone number is(408) 943-1234.We use our website atwww.cadence.comas a channel for
    distribution of important information about our company,
    including news releases and financial information. Our website
    permits investors to subscribe toe-mailnotification alerts when we post new material information on our
    website. We also make available on our investor relations
    webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and
    submissions, including our proxy statement, as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing
    such documents with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance
    Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and the charters of the
    Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance
    and Nominating Committee of our Board of Directors are also
    posted on the investor relations webpage on our website.
    Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by
    writing to our Corporate Secretary at the address above.
    Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in
    this Annual Report onForm 10-Kunless expressly noted.



Factors
    Driving the Electronic Design Automation Industry



In 2009, the semiconductor industry’s sales declined as the
    global macroeconomic environment was negatively affected by
    decreased consumer spending, high unemployment, and restrained
    corporate spending. During this period, electronics companies
    faced increased financial pressures, in addition to the
    traditional challenges of cost, quality, innovation andtime-to-marketassociated with development of highly complex electronics
    systems and integrated circuit, or IC, products. In 2010, the
    semiconductor industry grew significantly as consumer demand for
    electronic products improved as global economic conditions
    improved. While the EDA industry benefited from this improved
    environment, EDA customers remained cautious about making
    substantial new EDA expenditures. The





semiconductor industry is forecasted to grow modestly in 2011,
    and we believe that spending on EDA offerings may also grow
    modestly as customers invest in new projects.



Electronics companies demand ever higher levels of productivity
    from their design teams, better predictability in their
    development schedules and higher quality products in order to be
    competitive and profitable in the price-conscious markets they
    serve. Electronics companies are responding to demand for
    increased functionality and miniaturization by combining
    subsystems — such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless
    communication, video signal processing and microprocessors
    — onto a single silicon chip, creating asystem-on-chip,or SoC, or multiple chips into a single chip package in a format
    referred to assystem-in-package,or SiP. These trends toward subsystem integration have required
    chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed
    by system companies, such as verifying system-level
    functionality and hardware-software interoperability.



Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with
    developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating original
    circuitry with IP developed by third parties to create SoCs, and
    combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic
    systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the
    ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the
    silicon, SoC, and system levels. In 2010, we published our
    vision for the industry, called EDA360, which describes in
    detail the challenges and opportunities in EDA. The acquisition
    of Denali Software, Inc., or Denali, supports multiple aspects
    of our strategy to address customer challenges. The most
    significant issues that our customers face in creating their
    products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing
    microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality, and
    achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting
    aggressive cost requirements.



These issues are becoming more complex as requirements for
    performance, size, cost, and features evolve across the full
    spectrum of electronics products, such as smart phones, tablets,
    televisions, communications and internet infrastructure, and
    computing platforms. Providers of EDA solutions must deliver
    products that address these technical challenges while improving
    the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability
    of the design processes and products of their customers.



Products
    and Product Strategy



Our products are engineered to improve our customers’
    design productivity and design quality by providing a
    comprehensive set of EDA tools and a differentiated portfolio of
    IP. Product revenues include all fees earned from granting
    licenses to use our software and IP, and from sales and leases
    of our hardware products, and exclude revenues derived from
    maintenance and services. See “Product Licensing
    Arrangements” for a discussion of our license types.



We combine our products and technologies into
    “platforms” for four major design activities:



•Functional Verification;•Digital IC Design and Implementation;•Custom IC Design and Verification; and•System Interconnect Design.



The four
    Cadence®design platforms are branded as
    Incisive®functional verification,
    Encounter®digital IC design,
    Virtuoso®custom design and
    Allegro®system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these
    platform product offerings with a set of design for
    manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital
    and custom IC design flows.



The products and technologies that comprise our platforms are
    combined with services,ready-to-usepackages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio and
    other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions
    for low power, mixed signal, enterprise verification and
    advanced node designs. These solutions and their constituent
    elements are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as
    system design and verification, functional verification, logic
    design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed
    circuit board, or PCB, and IC package / SiP design.



Our Product revenue was $471.6 million, or 50% of our total
    revenue, during fiscal 2010, $400.8 million, or 47% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2009 and $516.6 million, or
    50% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008. For





an additional description of our Product revenue, see the
    discussion under the heading “Results of Operations”
    under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Functional
    Verification



Functional Verification products are used by our customers to
    efficiently and effectively verify that the circuitry they have
    designed will perform as intended. This is accomplished in
    advance of actually manufacturing the circuitry, which reduces
    the risk of discovering an error in the completed product. Our
    offerings are comprised of two major categories: Logic
    Verification and System Design and Verification.



Our Logic Verification offering consists of planning, property
    checking, testbench simulation, verification IP, and environment
    capabilities within the Incisive functional verification
    platform. This offering enables our customers to employ
    methodology-driven enterprise-level verification process
    automation, including metric-driven verification planning,
    process tracking and management that allow the coordination of
    verification activities across multiple teams and various
    specialists for rapid verification planning and closure.



Our System Design and Verification offerings consist of
    hardware-assisted verification with emulation and acceleration,
    including the verification computing platform
    Palladium®XP,
    Palladium®and
    Xtreme®platforms, system-level design capabilities, verification IP,
    estimation of SoC cost and performance, consulting services, and
    methodologies that provide customers with automation for
    hardware-software verification and effective system design. In
    addition, this offering provides system power exploration,
    analysis and optimization. The
    QuickCycles®program allows customers access to our simulation acceleration
    and emulation products, either on their secure internet site or
    remotely over a high-speed, secure network connection.



The products obtained through the acquisition of Denali,
    including verification IP, memory models, and design IP, are
    included in this category of our offerings.



Digital
    IC Design and Implementation



Digital IC offerings are used by our customers to create logical
    representations of a digital circuit or IC that can be verified
    for correctness prior to manufacturing. Once verified, the
    logical representation is implemented, or converted to a format
    ready for silicon manufacturing, using additional software tools
    within this category. Our Digital IC offerings include two major
    categories: Logic Design and Physical Implementation.



Our Logic Design offering is comprised of formal verification,
    equivalency checking, synthesis and test capabilities within the
    Encounter digital IC design platform and property checking,
    simulation, and environment capabilities within the Incisive
    functional verification platform. This offering provides chip
    planning, design, verification and test technologies and
    services to customers across all digital design end markets.
    Logic Design capabilities are aggregated into solutions that
    address our customers’ needs in areas such as power
    efficiency and advanced process nodes.



Our Physical Implementation offering is comprised of a range of
    the Encounter digital IC design platform capabilities. The
    Physical Implementation offering includes timing analysis,
    signal integrity, power analysis, extraction, physical
    verification, and place and route capabilities within the
    Encounter digital IC design platform. This offering enables
    customers to create a physical representation of logic models,
    analyze electrical and physical characteristics of a design and
    prepare a design for manufacturing.



Custom IC
    Design and Verification



Custom IC Design and Verification offerings are used by our
    customers to create schematic representations of circuits down
    to the transistor level for analog, mixed-signal, custom
    digital, memory and RF designs. These logical representations
    are verified using simulation tools optimized for each type of
    design. The offering includes the environment, IC layout and
    simulation capabilities within the Virtuoso custom design
    platform. Other tools in the Custom IC portfolio are used to
    prepare the designs for manufacturing.





System
    Interconnect Design



Our System Interconnect Design offerings are used by our
    customers to develop PCBs and IC packages. The offerings include
    the following capabilities within the Allegro system
    interconnect design platform: PCB, IC package, SiP, design
    management and collaboration. Certain offerings also include the
    simulation capability within the Virtuoso custom design
    platform. These offerings enable engineers who are responsible
    for the capture, layout and analysis of advanced PCB and IC
    packages to design high-performance electronic products across
    the domains of IC, IC package and PCB, to increase functional
    density and to manage design complexity while reducing cost and
    time to market. For the mainstream PCB customers, where
    individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the
    OrCAD®family of offerings that is marketed worldwide through a network
    of resellers.



Design
    for Manufacturing



With the advent of silicon manufacturing technologies at
    geometries of 65 nanometer and below, our customers are
    increasingly concerned about the manufacturability and yield of
    their designs. The physical layout of each IC requires detailed
    analysis and optimization to ensure that the design can be
    manufactured in volume while performing as expected. Our
    strategy is to integrate DFM awareness into our core design
    platforms of Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC. Some
    of our DFM capabilities include electrical and physical
    lithography checking, chemical-mechanical polishing analysis and
    optimization, pattern matching and optical proximity checking.



Our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects as
    early in the product development process as possible. As a
    result, we are enhancing the DFM awareness of our core Encounter
    Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC product offerings. In addition
    to upstream integration of DFM technologies, we also offer
    stand-alone DFM products.



Third
    Party Programs and Initiatives



In addition to our products, many customers use
    internally-developed design tools or design tools provided by
    other EDA companies, as well as IP available from multiple
    suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and
    IP through vehicles such as our
    Connections®program and through our participation in the OpenAccess
    Coalition, the Power Forward Initiative and other programs and
    initiatives. We also contribute to the development and
    deployment of EDA industry standards.



Maintenance



Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and
    successful use of our products. We provide our customers with
    technical support to facilitate their use of our software, IP
    and hardware solutions.



We offer maintenance to our customers as an integral,
    non-cancelable component of our subscription and most term
    license agreements, as a component of certain other term license
    agreements subject to annual renewal, or as a separate agreement
    subject to annual renewal for our perpetual license customers.



Our Maintenance revenue was $363.5 million, or 39% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2010, $345.3 million, or 40%
    of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009 and
    $388.5 million, or 37% of our total revenue, during fiscal
    2008. For an additional description of our Maintenance revenue,
    see the discussion under the heading “Results of
    Operations” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Services



We offer a number of fee-based services, including engineering
    and education services. These services may be sold separately or
    sold and performed in conjunction with the sale, lease or
    license of our products.



Our Services revenue was $100.9 million, or 11% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2010, $106.5 million, or 13%
    of our total revenue, during fiscal 2009 and
    $133.5 million, or 13% of our total revenue, during fiscal
    2008. For





an additional description of our Services revenue, see the
    discussion under the heading “Results of Operations”
    under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Engineering
    Services



We offer engineering services to aid our customers with the
    design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design
    capabilities, including low power, IC packaging and board
    design, mixed-signal design, functional verification, digital
    implementation, analog/mixed-signal and system-level. The
    customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor
    and systems companies developing products for the consumer,
    communications, military and aerospace and computing markets.
    These ICs range from digital SoCs, analog and RF designs to
    complex mixed-signal ICs.



We offer engineering capabilities to assist customers from
    product concept to volume manufacturing. We leverage our
    experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products,
    leading practices and different design environments to improve
    the productivity of our customers’ engineering teams.
    Depending on the customers’ projects and needs, we work
    with customers using outsourcing, consultative and collaborative
    offerings. Our Virtual Computer-Aided Design offering enables
    our engineering teams at one or more of our locations to
    collaborate with our customers’ teams located elsewhere in
    the world during the course of their design and engineering
    projects through a secure network infrastructure. We also make
    our design IP portfolio available to customers as part of our
    technology and services solutions. These reusable design and
    methodology components enable us to efficiently deliver our
    services and allow our customers to reduce the design complexity
    and time to market when developing complex SoCs.



Through collaboration with our customers, we are able to design
    advanced ICs and gain direct and early visibility to industry
    design issues that may not be addressed adequately by
    today’s EDA technologies. This enables us to target and
    accelerate the development of new software technology and
    products to satisfy current and future design requirements.



Education
    Services



Our education services offerings can be customized and include
    training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a
    classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from
    the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the
    most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of
    education services is to accelerate our customers’ path to
    productivity in the use of our products.



Marketing
    and Sales



We generally market our products and provide maintenance and
    services to existing and prospective customers through a direct
    sales force consisting of sales people and applications
    engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales
    and post-sales support for software products. Due to the
    complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design
    process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to
    six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales
    force generally provides technical presentations, product
    demonstrations and support foron-sitecustomer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our
    products and services through advertising, direct mail, trade
    shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize
    value added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of
    sales. All OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily
    marketed through these channels. With respect to international
    sales, we generally market and support our products and services
    through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor
    to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan.



Product
    Licensing Arrangements



We sell software using three license types: subscription, term
    and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a
    specified, limited period of time will choose either a
    subscription or term license, and customers who prefer to have
    the right to use the technology continuously without time
    restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who
    desire to use new technology during the life of the contract
    will select a subscription license, which allows them limited
    access to unspecified new technology on awhen-and-if-availablebasis, as





opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include
    rights to use new technology. Payment terms for subscription and
    term licenses generally provide for payments to be made in
    installments over the license period and payment terms for
    perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days.



We offer a delivery mechanism for term and subscription licenses
    called eDA Cards. eDA cards have an overall value amount that
    customers draw down against as they select specific products
    that are priced based on the particular duration of use the
    customer desires. The selection and licensing of the specific
    products is accomplished through an automated on-line system.
    The card expires when its total value is consumed by the
    customer, or on the pre-determined expiration date, whichever
    comes first. There are two types of eDA Cards. An eDA Gold Card
    is a term license that enables a customer to access a
    predetermined list of existing products. An eDA Platinum Card is
    a subscription license that enables a customer limited access to
    existing and new technology.



We generally license our IP under nonexclusive license
    agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications.
    Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design
    basis. We also sell and lease our hardware products.



For a further description of our license agreements, revenue
    recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to
    the discussion under the heading “Critical Accounting
    Estimates” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Backlog



Our backlog as of January 1, 2011 was approximately
    $1.7 billion, as compared to approximately
    $1.6 billion as of January 2, 2010, and consists of
    revenue to be recognized in fiscal periods after January 1, 2011
    for fully executed arrangements with effective dates no later
    than April 2, 2011, which is the last day of our first quarter
    of fiscal 2011, and from a variety of license types, which
    generally include, but are not limited to:



•Licenses for software products and IP;•Sale or lease of hardware;•Maintenance contracts on hardware and software products;•Orders for hardware and software products sold on perpetual and
    term licenses on which customers have delivery dates after
    January 1, 2011;•Licenses with payments that are outside our customary
    terms; and•The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts.



The substantial majority of our backlog is generated by our
    product and maintenance businesses because customer licenses
    generally include both product and maintenance components.
    Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations
    of our contracts with customers. However, we occasionally
    reschedule the required completion dates of engineering services
    contracts, deferring revenue recognition under those contracts
    beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in
    customer license types or payment terms also can affect the
    timing of revenue recognition. During fiscal 2010, approximately
    75% of our revenue came from orders in backlog as of
    January 2, 2010. We expect approximately 80% of our fiscal
    2011 revenue to come from our backlog as of January 1, 2011.



Revenue
    Seasonality



In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we began transitioning to a
    license mix that includes a higher proportion of arrangements
    requiring ratable revenue recognition. Prior to this transition,
    revenue was generally lowest in our first quarter and highest in
    our fourth quarter, with a material decline between the fourth
    quarter of one year and the first quarter of the following year.
    However, the transition to a more ratable license mix means that
    revenue may no longer follow our historical quarterly pattern.



Research
    and Development



Our investment in research and development was
    $376.4 million during fiscal 2010, $354.7 million
    during fiscal 2009 and $457.9 million during fiscal 2008.





The primary areas of our research and development include SoC
    design, the design of silicon devices, high-performance IC
    packaging, SiP and PCB design, system-level modeling and
    verification, high-performance logic verification technology, IP
    and hardware/software co-verification. The electronics industry
    combines rapid innovation with rapidly increasing design and
    manufacturing complexity, so we make significant investments in
    enhancing our current products, as well as creating new products
    and technologies and integrating those products and technologies
    together into segmented solutions.



Our future performance depends largely on our ability to
    maintain and enhance our current product development and
    commercialization, to develop, acquire or operate with new
    products from third parties, and to develop solutions that meet
    increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and
    cost requirements on a schedule that keeps pace with our
    customers’ technical developments and industry standards.



Manufacturing
    and Software Distribution



We perform final assembly and testing of our verification,
    acceleration and emulation hardware products at our headquarters
    in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all
    major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom
    ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their
    incorporation into the assembled product.



Software and documentation are primarily distributed to
    customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD.



Proprietary
    Technology



Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology.
    We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade
    secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish
    and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products.
    Many of our products include software or other intellectual
    property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new
    licenses or renew existing licenses for third party software and
    other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing
    engineering services for customers, our engineering services
    business uses certain software and other intellectual property
    licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors.



Competition



We compete in EDA software products and maintenance primarily
    with three companies: Synopsys, Inc., Mentor Graphics
    Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete
    with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of
    electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to
    develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics
    design and consulting companies. In the area of IP, we compete
    with Synopsys, Inc. and numerous smaller IP companies. We
    generally compete on the basis of quality, product features,
    level of integration or compatibility with other tools, price,
    payment terms and maintenance offerings.



It is our strategy to use engineering services as a
    differentiator to further promote our products and maintenance
    businesses. Certain competitive factors in the engineering
    services business as described herein differ from those of the
    products and maintenance businesses. While we do compete with
    other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our
    principal competitors include independent engineering service
    businesses. These companies vary greatly in focus, geographic
    location, capability, cost structure and pricing. We compete
    with these companies by focusing on the design of complex
    analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs.



International
    Operations



We have 48 sales offices, design centers and research and
    development facilities, approximately two-thirds of which are
    located outside of the United States. We consider customer sales
    and support requirements, the availability of a skilled
    workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative
    benefits, when determining what operations to locate
    internationally. For an additional description of our
    international operations, see the discussion under the heading
    “The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and other
    risks to our international operations may seriously harm our
    financial condition” under Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors” and Note 21 to our Consolidated Financial
    Statements.





Employees



As of January 1, 2011, we employed approximately 4,600
    individuals, including approximately 95 employees whose
    positions were eliminated in restructuring activities announced
    in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table provides information regarding our executive
    officers as of February 24, 2011:



NameAgePositions and OfficesLip-Bu Tan51President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorJohn J. Bruggeman II49Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing OfficerThomas A. Cooley49Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field OperationsJames J. Cowie46Senior Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryChi-Ping Hsu55Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentCharlie Huang47Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy OfficerNimish H. Modi48Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentGeoffrey G. Ribar52Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors
    and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of
    the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987,
    Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international
    venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its
    Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Flextronics
    International Ltd., Inphi Corporation, Semiconductor
    Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation.



JOHN J. BRUGGEMAN II has served as Senior Vice President and
    Chief Marketing Officer of Cadence since August 2009. Before
    joining Cadence, from February 2004 to July 2009,
    Mr. Bruggeman served as Chief Marketing Officer at Wind
    River Systems, Inc., an embedded software company that was
    acquired by Intel Corporation in July 2009. From May 2002 to
    January 2004, Mr. Bruggeman was Vice President of Marketing
    at Mercury Interactive Corporation, a business technology
    optimization company.



THOMAS A. COOLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Field Operations of Cadence since October 2008. From March 1995
    to October 2008, Mr. Cooley held several sales related
    positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President
    of Sales for North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa, or
    EMEA, and India.



JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence
    since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie
    held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate
    Vice President — Business Development, Associate
    General Counsel and Assistant Secretary.



CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to
    November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence,
    most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power
    Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as
    President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a
    supplier of high-performancesystem-on-chipsynthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003.
    Mr. Hsu also serves as a director of MoSys, Inc.



CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Strategy Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Since April
    2010, Mr. Huang has also served as Chief of Staff. From
    April 2007 to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice
    President — Business Development of Cadence.
    Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a
    Cadence-affiliated venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From
    2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at
    Cadence in engineering management and business development.
    Before joining





Cadence, Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive
    Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that
    was acquired by Cadence in 2001.NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to
    November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President,
    Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to
    August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel
    Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice
    President in the Enterprise Platforms Group.GEOFFREY G. RIBAR has served as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Cadence since November 2010. Before joining
    Cadence in October 2010, Mr. Ribar served as Chief
    Financial Officer of Telegent Systems, Inc., a semiconductor
    company, from May 2008 to October 2010. From January 2006 to
    April 2008, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at
    SiRF Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company that was acquired
    by CSR plc in 2009. Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial
    Officer at other semiconductor companies including Asyst
    Technology, Inc., Matrix Semiconductor, Inc., and nVidia
    Corporation. Mr. Ribar also held various positions
    including Corporate Controller at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.,
    a microchip manufacturing company.9




