Item 1. Business



We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating
    the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report
    onForm 10-K.All subsequent written or spoken forward-looking statements
    attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are
    expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary
    statements. The forward-looking statements included in this
    Annual Report onForm 10-Kare made only as of the date of this Annual Report onForm 10-K.We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these
    forward-looking statements.



Overview



We develop electronic design automation, or EDA, software and
    hardware. We license software, sell or lease hardware technology
    and provide engineering and education services throughout the
    world to help manage and accelerate electronics product
    development processes. Our customers use our products and
    services to design and develop complex integrated circuits, or
    ICs, and electronics systems.



We were organized as a Delaware corporation in June 1988.
    Our headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose,
    California 95134. Our telephone number is(408) 943-1234.We use our website atwww.cadence.comas a channel for
    distribution of important information about our company. News
    releases and financial information regarding our company are
    posted on and accessible at our investor relations webpage on
    our website atwww.cadence.com. Our website permits
    investors to subscribe toe-mailnotification alerts when we post new material information on our
    website. We also make available on our investor relations
    webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and
    submissions as soon as reasonably practicable after
    electronically filing or furnishing such documents with the SEC.
    Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct
    and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee
    and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of our Board
    of Directors are also posted on the investor relations webpage
    on our website atwww.cadence.com. Stockholders may also
    request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate
    Secretary at the address above. Information on our website is
    not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report onForm 10-Kunless expressly noted.



Factors
    Driving the Electronic Design Automation Industry



During 2008 and 2009, the semiconductor industry’s growth
    declined as the overall macroeconomic environment deteriorated.
    Electronics companies faced financial challenges in 2008 and
    2009 because consumer spending on electronics was adversely
    affected by increased unemployment, and corporate spending was
    restrained by the tightened credit market and the economic
    downturn. During 2009, semiconductor unit volumes decreased and
    average selling prices declined. These factors, combined with
    the macroeconomic environment, affect how electronics companies
    address traditional challenges of cost, quality, innovation andtime-to-marketassociated with highly complex electronics systems and IC
    product development.





Although estimates project moderate growth for the semiconductor
    industry in 2010, we believe that increased spending on EDA and
    other tools may grow more slowly than the semiconductor industry
    as a whole in 2010.



Electronics companies demand ever higher levels of productivity
    from their design teams, better predictability in their
    development schedules and higher quality products in order to be
    competitive and profitable in the price-conscious markets they
    serve. Electronics companies are responding to demand for
    increased functionality and miniaturization by combining
    subsystems — such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless
    communication, video signal processing and microprocessors
    — onto a single silicon chip, creating asystem-on-chip,or SoC, or multiple chips into a single chip package in a format
    referred to assystem-in-package,or SiP. These trends toward subsystem integration have required
    chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed
    by system companies, such as verifying system-level
    functionality and hardware-software interoperability.



SoC designs put many more transistors on each chip, increasing
    the need for tight control over power consumption. This is done
    not only to increase battery life in portable devices, but also
    to minimize energy cost for computing and networking equipment.
    Higher power devices generate more heat, which further increases
    both system cost as well as operating expenses for cooling.
    Evolving semiconductor manufacturing processes with smaller
    features (transistors and wires) and lower supply voltages
    address both of these issues to some degree, but introduce new
    challenges of their own. Contemporary portable electronic
    devices contain chips in which individual features can be as
    small as 45 nanometers, or 45/1,000,000ths of a millimeter.
    Because of the electrical characteristics of the materials used
    to construct the transistors, which are essentially microscopic
    switches, chips continue to consume power even when transistors
    in the device are switched off. To overcome these and other
    power-related issues, specific “low power” design
    techniques must be developed and are most effective if they are
    integrated throughout the design flow, from logic design and
    verification through physical implementation.



Variability in the processes and materials used to manufacture
    silicon chips have become so pervasive at 65 nanometers and
    below that traditional connections between design and
    manufacturing teams are insufficient to ensure chip performance
    and yield. Integrating detailed models of the manufacturing
    process into the chip design environment is desirable so
    engineers can craft a design to avoid or overcome these
    manufacturing process variations. Similarly, manufacturing teams
    can optimize their processes if, along with the design, they are
    provided with information about the most critical parts of the
    chip. However, sharing information between design and
    manufacturing processes is complicated because current data
    formats used to describe the chip design differ from data
    formats used to describe the manufacturing process and control
    the manufacturing equipment. Moreover, design and manufacturing
    most often involve two or more separate companies, because
    multiple companies may participate in the design of the chip and
    in the manufacturing and assembly of the final device.



These trends represent significant new challenges for
    electronics design processes. Specifically, product performance
    and size requirements of the mobile consumer electronics market
    require microelectronic systems to be smaller, consume less
    power and provide multiple functions all in one SoC or SiP. This
    requires designers to pay close attention to many electrical,
    physical and manufacturing effects that were inconsequential in
    previous generations of chip designs. The design challenge
    becomes more complex with each new generation of electronics and
    providers of EDA solutions must deliver products that address
    these technical challenges while improving the productivity,
    predictability, reliability and profitability of the design
    process.



Products
    and Product Strategy



Our products are engineered to improve our customers’
    design productivity and design quality by providing a
    comprehensive set of EDA tools. Product revenues include all
    fees earned from granting licenses to use our software and from
    sales and leases of our hardware products, and exclude revenues
    derived from maintenance and services. We offer customers three
    license types for our software: perpetual, term and
    subscription. See “Software Licensing Arrangements”
    for additional discussion of our license types.



We combine our products and technologies into
    “platforms” for four major design activities:



•Functional Verification;•Digital IC Design and Implementation;•Custom IC Design and Verification; and•System Interconnect Design.







The four
    Cadence®design platforms are branded as
    Incisive®functional verification,
    Encounter®digital IC design,
    Virtuoso®custom design and
    Allegro®system interconnect design. In addition, we augment these
    platform product offerings with a set of design for
    manufacturing, or DFM, products that service both the digital
    and custom IC design flows. We updated all of our foundation
    technologies between December 2008 and December 2009.



The products and technologies that comprise our platforms are
    combined with services, ready-to-use packages of technologies
    assembled from our broad portfolio and other associated
    components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power,
    mixed signal, enterprise verification and advanced node designs.
    These solutions and their constituent elements are marketed to
    users who specialize in areas such as system design and
    verification, functional verification, logic design, digital
    implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or
    PCB, and IC package / SiP design.



Our Product revenue was $400.8 million, or 47% of our total
    revenue, during fiscal 2009, $516.6 million, or 50% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2008, and $1,104.0 million, or
    68% of our total revenue, during fiscal 2007. For additional
    description of our Product revenue, including the current year
    decrease, see the discussion under the heading “Results of
    Operations” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Functional
    Verification



Our Functional Verification offerings are comprised of two major
    categories of offerings: Logic Verification and System Design
    and Verification.



Logic Verification



Our Logic Verification offering consists of the property
    checking and simulation and environment capabilities within the
    Incisive functional verification platform. This offering enables
    our customers to employ enterprise-level verification process
    automation, including verification planning, process tracking
    and management that allow the coordination of verification
    activities across multiple teams and various specialists.



Our Logic Verification offering includes:



•Planning and management that automates and guides the
    verification process, from specifications to metric-driven
    functional closure;•Testbench and simulation that offer Open Verification
    Methodology, or OVM,multi-languagetestbench and transaction-level support, assertion checking,
    low-power and mixed-signal simulation, analysis and a debug
    environment;•Formal verification, providing a mathematical method for
    verifying register transfer level, or RTL, functional
    correctness with assertions before a testbench simulation;•A verification intellectual property, or IP, portfolio that
    enables engineers to improve productivity while reducing risks
    associated with standard protocol development and compliance and
    provides a broad catalog of standard verification IP equipped
    with a Compliance Management System allowing metric-driven
    closure;•Palladium®and
    Xtreme®series of emulation and acceleration hardware;•SoC Functional Verification Kit, capturing reference examples of
    verification flows and reduces customers’ language,
    technology and methodology adoption risks; and•Tailored verification services for methodology adoption,
    environment migration and educational training that provide
    customized means of addressing customer-specific challenges.



Our Logic Verification offering also provides methodology-driven
    and multi-product flows that allow customers to incrementally
    adopt certain aspects of this offering and to address specific
    challenges. These flows include:



•Multi-languageOVM, enabling productivity and quality gains with reusable and
    scalable verification environments;•Metric-driven verification, enabling schedule predictability
    with a plan- and metric-driven solution and automated functional
    verification closure;





•Assertion-based verification, enabling productivity and quality
    gains with block and chip verification of functional intent that
    are captured via assertions;•Low power verification, as part of our Low Power Solution,
    enabling quality and productivity gains associated with the
    growing need to verify power management logic; and•Mixed signal verification, enabling risk reduction via
    integrated verification of designs with both digital and analog
    content.



System Design and Verification



Our System Design and Verification consists of the
    acceleration/emulation and system-level design capabilities and
    includes design and verification hardware and software,
    verification IP services and methodologies that provide
    customers with system-wide planning and management, design and
    verification IP reuse automation and system verification. In
    addition, this offering provides system power exploration,
    analysis and optimization.



Our System Design and Verification offering targets IP and SoC
    design and verification planners and architects,
    transaction-level IP developers and SoC and
    system-level IP verification and validation engineers.



Our System Design and Verification offering includes:



•SoC estimation software that enables chip architects and
    planners to evaluate the cost, performance and power of the SoC
    before initiating a design project;•System-level verification planning and management that automates
    and guides the verification process;•C-to-SiliconCompiler, providing high-level synthesis with IP reuse
    automation and architectural analysis and produces RTL
    micro-architectural designs;•Palladium and Xtreme series of emulation and acceleration
    hardware;•Incisive Simulation Analysis, providing support for
    transaction-level verification, analysis andmixed-languagetestbench and full RTL verification;•Incisive Software eXtension for hardware and software
    co-verification and co-debug; and•Verification IP and
    SpeedBridge®adapters that enable chip architect and planners to improve
    productivity while reducing risks associated with standard
    protocol compliance and provide a catalogue of standard
    protocols.



We also offer customers consulting services for verification
    acceleration and system emulation. Our QuickCycles program
    allows customers access to our Palladium and Xtreme simulation
    acceleration and emulation products, either on their secure
    internet site or remotely over a high-speed, secure network
    connection.



Digital IC Design and Implementation



Our Digital IC offerings include two major categories of
    offerings: Logic Design and Implementation.



Logic Design



Our Logic Design offering is comprised of equivalency checking,
    synthesis and test capabilities within the Encounter digital IC
    design platform and property checking, simulation, and
    environment capabilities within the Incisive functional
    verification platform. This offering provides planning, design,
    verification and test technologies and services to customers
    across all digital design end markets. Logic Design capabilities
    are aggregated into solutions that address our customers’
    needs in areas such as power efficiency and advanced process
    nodes. Our Logic Design offering targets engineers who are
    tasked with digital chip development planning, functional
    design, verification, logical implementation anddesign-for-test,or DFT.



Our Logic Design offering includes:



•Chip Planning System and Incyte Chip Estimator, providing users
    with the ability to perform technical and cost trade-off
    analyses in the product planning phase of a project;•Low power capability that enables users to maximize energy
    efficiency of their designs;•Engineering change order aware products that provide an
    automated solution for pre-mask and post-mask management of
    specification changes;•Logic synthesis, enabling simultaneous, multi-objective
    optimization for key project attributes;





•Implementation signoff, extending into areas of low power,
    constraints and design sign-off rule verification, to provide
    more accurate results; and•DFT, automatic test pattern generation and failure diagnosis
    technologies integrated in the design process, to address the
    challenges of complex SoC development.



Implementation



Our Implementation offering is comprised of a range of the
    Encounter digital IC design platform capabilities. The
    Implementation offering includes timing analysis, signal
    integrity and place and route capabilities within the Encounter
    digital IC design platform. This offering enables customers to
    create a physical representation of logic models, analyze
    electrical and physical characteristics of a design and prepare
    a design for manufacturing.



Our Implementation offering includes:



•Silicon virtual prototyping with automated floorplan synthesis
    and ranking capabilities, enabling designers to explore the
    design space and plan the complete implementation of a chip
    before committing to a specific implementation strategy;•Global RTL and physical synthesis that enables customers to
    improve the quality of silicon;•Embedded sign-off-qualified variation analysis and optimization
    across the design flow, providing a more predictable design
    closure at advanced nodes;•Integrated diagnostic tools for rapid global timing, clock and
    power analysis and debugging; and•Interoperability with our Custom IC Design offering to enable
    implementation of mixed-signal ICs.



Our Encounter L, XL and GXL offerings also provide designers
    with the ability to chose the appropriate products that match
    their needs, ranging from smaller designs on mature technologies
    to the largest designs on the most advanced process nodes.



Custom IC
    Design and Verification



Our Custom IC Design and Verification offering is comprised of a
    range of Virtuoso custom design platform capabilities and
    certain DFM products capabilities. The Custom IC Design and
    Verification offering includes the environment, IC layout and
    simulation capabilities within the Virtuoso custom design
    platform. This offering provides designers with an integrated
    flow for design creation, validation and implementation of
    silicon-accurate analog, custom digital, mixed-signal, memory
    and RF designs, while ensuring that these designs are ready for
    manufacturing through integrated DFM capabilities.



Our Virtuoso Custom IC Design and Verification offering includes:



•Reference flows for analog, mixed-signal, RF and analog-digital
    integration focused on wireless and analog/mixed-signal market
    segments;•Comprehensive specification-driven design environment to analyze
    designs over a broad set of manufacturing and environmental
    operating conditions;•Schematic-capture support and constraint-driven design
    techniques to secure and retain a designer’s intent
    throughout the design process;•Automatic analog circuit sizing and optimization including yield
    optimization;•Multi-mode simulation for digital, analog, mixed-signal and RF
    designs; and•Interactive, assisted or fully automated options for custom
    layout with advanced floorplanning, chip editing, process node
    migration and analog/mixed-signal routing technologies.



Our Virtuoso L, XL and GXL offerings also provide designers with
    the ability to choose the appropriate products that match their
    needs, ranging from simple entry-level component design to the
    most complex DFM-aware SoC designs.



System
    Interconnect Design



Our System Interconnect Design offerings include the following
    capabilities within the Allegro system interconnect design
    platform: PCB, IC package, SiP, design management and
    collaboration. Certain offerings also include the simulation
    capability within the Virtuoso custom design platform. These
    offerings enable engineers who





are responsible for the capture, layout and analysis of advanced
    PCB and IC packages to design high-performance electronic
    products across the domains of IC, IC package and PCB, to
    increase functional density and to manage design complexity
    while reducing cost and time to market.



Our System Interconnect Design offering includes:



•Constraint-driven methodology from advanced design capture and
    authoring, signal integrity and power delivery optimization and
    analysis through detailed physical implementation and DFM
    preparation;•Optimized system level interconnect — the electronic
    signal and power paths across PCBs, IC Packages and
    ICs — through a co-design methodology to reduce
    hardware costs and the duration of design projects;•Embedded support for silicon input/output transceiver
    algorithmic modeling (using Input / Output Buffer
    Information Specification 5.0);•Algorithmic modeling, enabling characterization of the latest
    serial interface protocols that are being adopted across all
    markets;•Million-bit channel analysis, allowing design engineers to
    verify standards compliance during the design process;•SiP RF Layout and RF Architect, including a methodology for
    integrating multiple levels of silicon and discrete
    functionality in a single performance, cost and size-optimized
    IC Package; and•SiP integration with our Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso
    Custom IC offerings to co-design, streamline and optimize IC
    Package design.



Our System Interconnect Design offerings are available as a set
    of scalable capability-tiered products, including L, XL and GXL,
    depending on the requirements of our customers. For the
    mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team
    productivity is a focus, we provide the
    OrCAD®family of offerings that is marketed worldwide through a network
    of resellers.



Design
    for Manufacturing



With the advent of silicon manufacturing technologies at
    geometries of 65 nanometer and below, our customers are
    increasingly concerned about manufacturability of their designs.
    The physical layout of each IC requires detailed analysis and
    optimization to ensure that the design can be manufactured in
    volume while performing as expected. Our strategy is to
    integrate DFM awareness into our core design platforms of
    Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC. Some of our DFM
    capabilities include:



•Parasitic extraction products that take a physical
    representation of a design and determine the electrical
    properties to enable additional simulation and timing analysis;•On-chip power distribution for digital, analog and SoC designs;•Manufacturing design rule checks to ensure the proposed design
    meets foundry process requirements; and•Analytical and design tools for physical and electrical effects,
    process proximity correction, and yield / failure
    analysis diagnostics.



Our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects as
    early in the product development process as possible. As a
    result, we are enhancing the DFM awareness of our core Encounter
    Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC product offerings. Where
    upstream integration is not possible, we offer certain
    stand-alone DFM products.



Third
    Party Programs and Initiatives



In addition to our products, many customers use
    internally-developed design tools or design tools provided by
    other EDA companies, as well as IP available from multiple
    suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and
    IP through vehicles such as our
    Connections®program and through our participation in the OpenAccess
    Coalition, the Power Forward Initiative and other programs and
    initiatives. We also contribute to the development and
    deployment of EDA industry standards.





Maintenance



Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and
    successful use of our products. We provide our customers with
    technical support to facilitate their use of our software and
    hardware solutions.



We offer maintenance to our customers as an integral,
    non-cancelable component of our subscription license agreements,
    as a component of our term license agreements subject to annual
    renewal, or as a separate agreement subject to annual renewal
    for our perpetual license customers.



Our Maintenance revenue was $345.3 million, or 40% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2009, $388.5 million, or 37%
    of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008, and
    $385.2 million, or 24% of our total revenue, during fiscal
    2007. For additional description of our Maintenance revenue, see
    the discussion under the heading “Results of
    Operations” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Services



We offer a number of fee-based services, including engineering
    and education services. These services may be sold separately or
    sold and performed in conjunction with the sale, lease or
    license of our products.



Our Services revenue was $106.5 million, or 13% of our
    total revenue, during fiscal 2009, $133.5 million, or 13%
    of our total revenue, during fiscal 2008, and
    $125.8 million, or 8% of our total revenue, during fiscal
    2007. For additional description of our Services revenue, see
    the discussion under the heading “Results of
    Operations” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Engineering
    Services



We offer engineering services to aid our customers with the
    design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design
    capabilities, including low power, IC packaging and board
    design, mixed-signal design, functional verification, digital
    implementation, analog/mixed-signal and system-level. The
    customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor
    and systems companies developing products for the consumer,
    communications, military and aerospace and computing markets.
    These ICs range from digital SoCs, analog and RF designs to
    complex mixed-signal ICs.



We offer engineering capabilities to assist customers from
    product concept to volume manufacturing. We leverage our
    experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products,
    leading practices and different design environments to improve
    the productivity of our own and our customers’ engineering
    teams. Depending on the customers’ projects and needs, we
    work with customers using outsourcing, consultative and
    collaborative offerings. Our Virtual Computer-Aided Design
    offering enables our engineering teams at one or more of our
    locations to collaborate with our customers’ teams located
    elsewhere in the world during the course of their design and
    engineering projects through a secure network infrastructure. We
    also make our design IP portfolio available to customers as part
    of our technology and services solutions. These reusable design
    and methodology components enable us to efficiently deliver our
    services and allow our customers to reduce the design complexity
    and time to market when developing complex SoCs.



Through collaboration with our customers, we are able to design
    advanced ICs and gain direct and early visibility to industry
    design issues that may not be addressed adequately by
    today’s EDA technologies. This enables us to target and
    accelerate the development of new software technology and
    products to satisfy current and future design requirements.



Education
    Services



Our education services offerings can be customized and include
    training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a
    classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from
    the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the
    most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of
    education services is to accelerate our customers’ path to
    productivity in the use of our products.





Marketing
    and Sales



We generally market our products and provide maintenance and
    services to existing and prospective customers through a direct
    sales force consisting of sales people and applications
    engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales
    and post-sales support for software products. Due to the
    complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design
    process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to
    six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales
    force generally provides technical presentations, product
    demonstrations and support foron-sitecustomer evaluation of our solutions. We also use traditional
    marketing approaches to promote our products and services,
    including advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public
    relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value added
    resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. All
    OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily marketed
    through these channels. With respect to international sales, we
    generally market and support our products and services through
    our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell
    our products and services to certain customers in Japan.



Software
    Licensing Arrangements



We sell software using three license types: subscription, term
    and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a
    specified, limited period of time will choose either a
    subscription or term license, and customers who prefer to have
    the right to use the technology continuously without time
    restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who
    desire to use new technology during the life of the contract
    will select a subscription license, which allows them limited
    access to unspecified new technology on awhen-and-if-availablebasis, as opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not
    include rights to use new technology. Payment terms for
    subscription and term licenses generally provide for payments to
    be made in installments over the license period and payment
    terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days.



We offer a delivery mechanism for term and subscription licenses
    called eDA Cards. eDA cards have an overall “face”
    value amount that customers draw down against as they select
    specific products that are priced based on the particular
    duration of use the customer desires. The selection and
    licensing of the specific products is accomplished through an
    automated on-line system. The card expires when all of the face
    value is consumed, or on the pre-determined expiration date,
    whichever comes first. There are two types of eDA Cards. An eDA
    Gold Card is a term license that enables a customer to access a
    predetermined list of existing products. An eDA Platinum Card is
    a subscription license that enables a customer to access
    existing and new technology.



For a further description of our license agreements, revenue
    recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to
    the discussion under the heading “Critical Accounting
    Estimates” under Item 7, “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.”



Backlog



Our backlog as of January 2, 2010 was approximately
    $1.6 billion, as compared to approximately
    $1.8 billion as of January 3, 2009. Backlog consists
    of revenue to be recognized in fiscal periods after
    January 2, 2010 from a variety of license types, which
    generally include, but are not limited to:



•Subscription licenses for software products;•Sale or lease of hardware;•Maintenance contracts on hardware and software products;•Orders for hardware and software products sold on perpetual and
    term licenses on which customers have delivery dates after
    January 2, 2010;•Licenses with payments that are outside our customary
    terms; and•The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts.



The substantial majority of our backlog is generated by our
    product and maintenance businesses because customer licenses
    generally include both product and maintenance components.
    Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations
    of our contracts with customers. However, we occasionally
    reschedule the required completion dates of engineering services
    contracts, deferring revenue recognition under those contracts
    beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in
    customer license types or payment terms also can





impact the timing of revenue recognition. We currently expect
    approximately 80% of our fiscal 2010 revenue to come from our
    backlog as of January 2, 2010.



Revenue
    Seasonality



Historically, revenue has been lowest in our first quarter and
    highest in our fourth quarter, with a material decline between
    the fourth quarter of one year and the first quarter of the
    following year. However, our license mix has changed such that a
    substantial proportion of licenses require ratable revenue
    recognition. Although we still expect the first quarter to
    remain our lowest quarter for revenue within a fiscal year, we
    do not expect the decrease in revenue from the fourth quarter of
    one year to the first quarter of the following year to be as
    significant as it has been historically.



Research
    and Development



Our investment in research and development was
    $354.7 million during fiscal 2009, $457.9 million
    during fiscal 2008 and $494.0 million during fiscal 2007.



The primary areas of our research and development include SoC
    design, the design of silicon devices in the nanometer range,
    high-performance IC packaging, SiP and PCB design, system-level
    modeling and verification, high-performance logic verification
    technology and hardware/software co-verification. The
    electronics industry combines rapid innovation with rapidly
    increasing design and manufacturing complexity, so we make
    significant investments in enhancing our current products, as
    well as creating new products and technologies and integrating
    those products and technologies together into segmented
    solutions.



Our future performance depends largely on our ability to
    maintain and enhance our current product development and
    commercialization, to develop, acquire or operate with new
    products from third parties, and to develop solutions that meet
    increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and
    cost requirements on a schedule that keeps pace with our
    customers’ technical developments and industry standards.



Manufacturing
    and Software Distribution



We perform final assembly and testing of our hardware
    verification, acceleration and emulation products at our
    headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors
    manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual
    PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and
    testing before their incorporation into the assembled product.



Software and documentation are primarily distributed to
    customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD.



Proprietary
    Technology



Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology.
    We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade
    secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish
    and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products.
    Many of our products include software or other intellectual
    property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new
    licenses or renew existing licenses for third party software and
    other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing
    engineering services for customers, our engineering services
    business uses certain software and other intellectual property
    licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors.



Competition



We compete in the EDA industry for products and maintenance
    primarily with three companies: Synopsys, Inc., Mentor Graphics
    Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete
    with numerous smaller EDA companies, with manufacturers of
    electronic devices that have developed or have the capability to
    develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics
    design and consulting companies. We generally compete on the
    basis of product quality, product features, level of integration
    or compatibility with other tools, price, payment terms and
    maintenance offerings.





Our maintenance business flows directly from our product
    business. The competitive issues associated with our maintenance
    business are substantially similar to those for our product
    business in that every maintenance contract is the direct result
    of a product contract, and once we have entered into a product
    contract, maintenance is generally purchased by the customer to
    ensure access to bug fixes and service releases, as and when
    they are made available, and other continued support.



Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business
    as described herein differ from those of the products and
    maintenance businesses. While we do compete with other EDA
    companies in the engineering services business, our principal
    competitors are independent engineering service businesses.
    These companies vary greatly in focus, geographic location,
    capability, cost structure and pricing. In addition,
    manufacturers of electronic devices may be reluctant to purchase
    services from independent vendors, including us, because they
    wish to promote their own internal design departments. We
    compete with these companies by focusing on the design of
    complex analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs. It is our
    strategy to use engineering services as a differentiator to
    further promote our products and maintenance businesses.



International
    Operations



We have 56 sales offices, design centers and research and
    development facilities, approximately half of which are located
    outside of the United States. We consider customer sales and
    support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce,
    and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when
    determining what operations to locate internationally. For
    additional information regarding our international operations,
    see the discussion under the heading “The effect of foreign
    exchange rate fluctuations and other risks to our international
    operations may seriously harm our financial condition”
    under Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and Note 21 to
    our Consolidated Financial Statements.



Employees



As of January 2, 2010, we employed approximately 4,400
    individuals, with approximately 1,800 in sales, services,
    marketing, support and manufacturing activities, approximately
    2,000 in product research and development and approximately 600
    in management, administration and finance. None of our employees
    is represented by a labor union and we have experienced no work
    stoppages. We believe that our employee relations are good.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



The following table provides information regarding our executive
    officers as of February 26, 2010:



NameAgePositions and OfficesLip-Bu Tan50President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorJohn J. Bruggeman II48Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing OfficerThomas A. Cooley48Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field OperationsJames J. Cowie45Senior Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryChi-Ping Hsu54Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentCharlie Huang46Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy OfficerNimish H. Modi47Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentKevin S. Palatnik52Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors
    and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of
    the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004 and serves as
    a member of the Technology Committee of the Cadence Board of
    Directors. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International,
    an international venture capital firm, and since that time has
    served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director
    of Flextronics International Ltd., Semiconductor Manufacturing
    International Corporation and SINA Corporation.





JOHN J. BRUGGEMAN II has served as Senior Vice President and
    Chief Marketing Officer of Cadence since August 2009. Before
    joining Cadence, from February 2004 to July 2009,
    Mr. Bruggeman served as Chief Marketing Officer at Wind
    River Systems, Inc., an embedded software company that was
    acquired by Intel Corporation in July 2009. From May 2002 to
    January 2004, Mr. Bruggeman was Vice President of Marketing
    at Mercury Interactive Corporation, a business technology
    optimization company.



THOMAS A. COOLEY has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Field Operations of Cadence since October 2008. From March 1995
    to October 2008, Mr. Cooley held several sales related
    positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President
    of Sales for North America, Europe, Middle East, Africa, or
    EMEA, and India.



JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General
    Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence
    since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie
    held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate
    Vice President — Business Development, Associate
    General Counsel and Assistant Secretary.



CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to
    November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence,
    most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power
    Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as
    President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a
    supplier of high-performancesystem-on-chipsynthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003.



CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Strategy Officer of Cadence since January 2009. From April 2007
    to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice
    President — Business Development of Cadence.
    Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a
    Cadence related venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From
    2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at
    Cadence related to business development. Before joining Cadence,
    Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of
    CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired
    by Cadence in 2001.



NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to
    November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President,
    Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to
    August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel
    Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice
    President in the Enterprise Platforms Group.



KEVIN S. PALATNIK has served as Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of Cadence since April 2008. From January 2002
    to April 2008, Mr. Palatnik served in a number of positions
    at Cadence, including as Corporate Vice President, Technical
    Field Operations and Corporate Vice President, Field Operations
    Finance, and most recently as Senior Vice President and
    Corporate Controller. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Palatnik
    held several engineering and senior financial positions at
    International Business Machines Corporation, a computer hardware
    and software company.





