Item 1. Business





We urge you to consider these factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to our company or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update these forward-looking statements.



Overview



We develop solutions that our customers use to design increasingly small and complex integrated circuits, or ICs, and electronic devices. Our solutions are designed to help our customers reduce the time to bring an IC or electronic device to market and to reduce their design and development costs. Our offerings include software, two categories of intellectual property, or IP (commonly referred to as verification IP, or VIP, and Design IP), and hardware technology. We provide maintenance for our product offerings and provide engineering services related to methodology, education and hosted design solutions, which help our customers manage and accelerate their electronics product development processes.



Our customers include semiconductor and electronics systems companies that deliver a wide range of electronics products in a number of market segments such as mobile devices, communications, cloud and data center infrastructure, personal computers and other devices that connect to the Internet.



Corporate Information



We were organized as a Delaware corporation in June 1988. Our headquarters is located at 2655 Seely Avenue, San Jose, California 95134. Our telephone number is (408) 943-1234. We use our website atwww.cadence.comto communicate important information about our company, including news releases and financial information. Our website permits investors to subscribe to e-mail notification alerts when we post new material information on our website. We also make available on our investor relations webpage, free of charge, copies of our SEC filings and submissions as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such documents with the SEC. Stockholders may also request copies of these documents by writing to our Corporate Secretary at the address above. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless expressly noted.



The Electronic Design Automation Industry and Our Business



The electronic design automation, or EDA, industry, including our business, is driven by our customers' response to end-user demand for electronic devices that are smaller, use less power and provide more functionality. To meet this demand, our customers design and develop new ICs and electronic devices using our products and services. Accordingly, our business depends on our customers' continued investment in new designs and products.



The markets our customers serve are sensitive to product price and the time it takes to bring the products to market. In order to be competitive and profitable in these markets, our customers demand high levels of productivity from their design teams, better predictability in shorter development schedules, high quality products and lower development costs. Semiconductor and electronics systems companies are responding to these challenges and users' demand for increased functionality and smaller devices by









combining subsystems - such as radio frequency, or RF, wireless communication, signal processing, microprocessors and memory controllers - onto a single silicon chip, creating a system-on-chip, or SoC, or combining multiple chips into a single chip package in a format referred to as system-in-package, or SiP. The trend toward subsystem integration has required these chip makers to find solutions to challenges previously addressed by system companies, such as verifying system-level functionality and hardware-software interoperability.



Our offerings address many of the challenges associated with developing unique silicon circuitry, integrating that circuitry with design IP developed by us or third parties to create SoCs, and combining ICs and SoCs with software to create electronic systems. Our strategy is to provide our customers with the ability to address the broad range of issues that arise at the silicon, SoC, and system levels.



Significant issues that our customers face in creating their products include optimizing energy consumption, manufacturing microscopic circuitry, verifying device functionality, and achieving technical performance targets, all while meeting aggressive time-to-market and cost requirements. Providers of EDA solutions must deliver products that address these technical challenges while improving the productivity, predictability, reliability and profitability of the design processes and products of their customers.



Products and Product Strategy



Our products are engineered to improve our customers' design productivity and design quality by providing a comprehensive set of EDA solutions and a differentiated portfolio of Design IP and VIP. Product revenue includes fees from licenses to use our software and IP, and from sales and leases of our hardware products. See "Product Arrangements" below for a discussion of our license types.



We combine our products and technologies into categories related to major design activities:



•Functional Verification, Hardware and IP;

•Custom IC Design;

•Digital IC Design;

•System Interconnect Design; and

•Design for Manufacturing, or DFM.



The major Cadence®design platforms are branded as Incisive®functional verification, Virtuoso®custom IC design, Encounter®digital IC design and Allegro®system interconnect design. Our functional verification offerings include VIP products and are supplemented by our Design IP offerings and our hardware offerings. In addition, we augment these platform product offerings with a set of DFM products that service both the digital and custom IC design flows.



The products and technologies included in these categories are combined with ready-to-use packages of technologies assembled from our broad portfolio of IP and other associated components that provide comprehensive solutions for low power, mixed signal and designs at smaller geometries referred to as advanced process nodes, as well as popular designs based on design IP owned and licensed by other companies such as ARM Holdings plc. These solutions are marketed to users who specialize in areas such as system design and verification, functional verification, logic design, digital implementation, custom IC design and printed circuit board, or PCB, and IC package and SiP design.



Functional Verification, Hardware and IP



Functional Verification products are used by our customers to efficiently and effectively verify that the circuitry they have designed will perform as intended. Verification takes place before implementing or manufacturing the circuitry, significantly reducing the risk of discovering an error in the completed product. Our Functional Verification offerings are comprised of three major categories: Logic Verification, System Design and Verification, and Design IP.



Our Logic Verification offering consists of planning, testbench automation, simulation, property checking and environment capabilities within the Incisive functional verification platform. This offering enables our customers to coordinate verification activities across multiple teams and various specialists for rapid verification planning and closure.



Our System Design and Verification offerings consist of hardware-assisted verification that employs emulation and acceleration, including the Palladium®XP, Palladium and Xtreme®verification computing platforms, system-level design tools, accelerated VIP, estimation of SoC cost and performance and automation for hardware-software verification. In addition, this offering provides system power exploration, analysis and optimization. The QuickCycles®offering allows customers access to









our simulation acceleration and emulation products, either on their secure intranet site or remotely over a high-speed, secure network connection.



Our Design IP offerings consist of pre-verified functional blocks, which customers integrate into their SoCs to accelerate the development process and to reduce the risk of errors in the design process. Cadence offers many types of Design IP, including controllers and physical interfaces, or PHYs, for standard protocols such as ethernet, peripheral component interconnect express, or PCI Express, dynamic RAM, and flash memory controllers. Cadence also offers a very broad range of VIP and memory models, which model the expected behavior of many industry standard protocols when used with verification solutions, and are complementary to our Design IP offerings.



Custom IC Design



Custom IC Design and Verification offerings are used by our customers to create schematic and physical representations of circuits down to the transistor level for analog, mixed-signal, custom digital, memory and RF designs. These representations are verified using simulation tools optimized for each type of design. The offering includes the environment, simulation, and IC layout  capabilities within the Virtuoso custom design platform. Other tools in the Custom IC portfolio are used to prepare the designs for manufacturing.



Digital IC Design



Digital IC Design offerings are used by our customers to create logical representations of a digital circuit or an IC that can be verified for correctness prior to implementation (see the discussion under the Functional Verification, Hardware and IP section above). Once the logic is verified, the design representation is implemented, or converted to a format ready for silicon manufacturing, using additional software tools within this category. The manufacturing representation is also analyzed and verified (see the discussion under the Design for Manufacturing section below). Our Digital IC offerings include two major categories: Logic Design and Physical Implementation.



Our Logic Design offering is comprised of logic synthesis, test and equivalence checking capabilities within the Encounter digital IC design platform, and is typically used by customers to create and verify designs in conjunction with our Functional Verification capabilities. This offering provides chip planning, design, verification and test technologies and services to customers. Logic Design capabilities are aggregated into solutions that address our customers' needs in areas such as low power and mixed signal designs.



Our Physical Implementation offering is included in the Encounter Digital IC Design platform. This offering is comprised of tools used near the end of the design process, including place and route, timing analysis, signal integrity, power analysis, extraction and physical verification capabilities. This offering enables customers to create a physical representation of logic models, analyze electrical and physical characteristics of a design and prepare a design for manufacturing. We have enhanced this offering to enable customers to address the technology challenges of the latest semiconductor advanced process nodes.



System Interconnect Design



Our System Interconnect Design offerings are used by our customers to develop printed circuit boards, or PCBs, and IC packages. The offerings include the following capabilities within the Allegro system interconnect design platform: PCB authoring and implementation, IC package / SiP signal and power integrity analysis, PCB library design management and collaboration. Certain offerings also include the simulation capability within the Virtuoso custom design platform. Advanced analysis tools were added through the acquisition of Sigrity, Inc., or Sigrity, during fiscal 2012. SigrityTManalysis tools have been integrated with our Allegro platform, enabling a comprehensive front-to-back flow for implementation and full signal and power integrity analysis for designs featuring high speed interface protocols. These offerings enable engineers who are responsible for the capture, layout and analysis of advanced PCB and IC packages to design high-performance electronic products across the domains of IC, IC package and PCB, to increase functional density and to manage design complexity while reducing cost and time-to-market. The need for compact, high performance mobile design with advanced serial interconnect is driving renewed growth and technology evolution for our PCB offering. For the mainstream PCB customers, where individual or small team productivity is a focus, we provide the OrCAD®family of offerings that is marketed worldwide through a network of resellers.



Design for Manufacturing



With the advent of silicon manufacturing technologies at advanced process nodes, our customers are concerned with the manufacturability and yield of their designs. The physical layout of each IC requires detailed analysis and optimization to ensure









that the design can be manufactured in volume while performing as expected. Some of our DFM capabilities include electrical and physical lithography checking, chemical-mechanical polishing analysis and optimization, pattern matching, double patterning, and optical proximity checking.



Our primary focus in DFM is to address manufacturing effects as early in the product development process as possible. As a result, we have enhanced the DFM awareness of our core Encounter Digital IC and Virtuoso Custom IC product offerings. In addition to upstream integration of DFM technologies, we also offer standalone DFM products.



Third-Party Programs and Initiatives



In addition to our products, many customers use design tools that are provided by other EDA companies, as well as design IP available from multiple suppliers. We support the use of third-party design products and design IP through vehicles such as our Connections®program and through our participation in industry groups such as the Silicon Integration Initiative and Accellera System Initiative. We actively contribute to the development and deployment of EDA industry standards.



Technical Support and Maintenance



Customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide our customers with technical support and maintenance to facilitate their use of our software, IP and hardware solutions.



Services



We offer a number of fee-based services, including engineering, methodology, education and hosted design solutions. These services may be sold separately or sold and performed in conjunction with the sale, lease or license of our products. During fiscal 2012, certain of our design services engineers were redeployed to internal research and development projects associated with our Design IP business, or to assist with pre-sales activities, and we expect to continue deploying these design services engineers for similar activities in 2013. Consequently, design services revenue is expected to decline during fiscal 2013, as compared to fiscal 2012.



As part of our services offerings we design advanced ICs and address industry design issues that may not be solved adequately by today's EDA technologies. This enables us to target and accelerate the development of new software technology and products to satisfy current and future design requirements.



We offer engineering services to collaborate with our customers in the design of complex ICs and the implementation of key design capabilities, including low power design, IC packaging and board design, functional verification, digital implementation, analog/mixed-signal design and system-level design. The customers for these services primarily consist of semiconductor and systems companies developing products for the consumer, communications, military and aerospace and computing markets. These ICs range from digital SoCs, analog and RF designs to complex mixed-signal ICs.



In delivering methodology services, we leverage our experience and knowledge of design techniques, our products, leading practices and different design environments to improve the productivity of our customers' engineering teams. Depending on the customers' projects and needs, we work with customers using outsourcing, consultative and collaborative offerings.



Our Hosted Design Solutions enable our engineering teams at one or more of our locations to assist our customers' teams located elsewhere in the world during the course of their design and engineering projects through a secure network infrastructure.  They also enable us to deliver software-as-a-service to those customers who do not have their own infrastructure.



Our education services offerings can be customized and include training programs that are conducted via the internet or in a classroom setting. The content of these offerings ranges from the latest IC design techniques to methodologies for using the most recent features of our EDA products. The primary focus of education services is to accelerate our customers' path to productivity in the use of our products.











Product, Maintenance and Services Revenue



Revenue, and revenue as a percentage of total revenue, from our product, services and maintenance offerings for the last three fiscal years were as follows:



201220112010(In millions, except percentages)Product$839.163%$640.856%$471.650%Services114.09%116.710%100.911%Maintenance373.328%392.334%363.539%Total revenue$1,326.4$1,149.8$936.0



For software arrangements, we generally recognize revenue ratably over the duration of the arrangement and such revenue is allocated between product and maintenance revenue. As the duration decreases, the percentage of the total contract value that is allocated to maintenance revenue decreases and the percentage allocated to product revenue increases. Combined, product and maintenance revenue increased during fiscal 2012, as compared to fiscal 2011. Maintenance revenue decreased on a standalone basis during fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, primarily because of the increased allocation to product revenue resulting from the decline in the average duration of our time-based software license arrangements. For an additional description of our product, services and maintenance revenue, see the discussion under the heading "Results of Operations" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."



Marketing and Sales



We generally market our products and provide services to existing and prospective customers through a direct sales force consisting of sales people and applications engineers. Applications engineers provide technical pre-sales and post-sales support for software products. Due to the complexity of many of our EDA products and the electronic design process, the sales cycle is generally long, requiring three to six months or more. During the sales cycle, our direct sales force generally provides technical presentations, product demonstrations and support for on-site customer evaluation of our solutions. We also promote our products and services through advertising, direct mail, trade shows, public relations and the internet. We selectively utilize value-added resellers to broaden our reach and reduce cost of sales. All OrCAD and selected Incisive products are primarily marketed through these channels. With respect to international sales, we generally market and support our products and services through our subsidiaries. We also use a third-party distributor to sell our products and services to certain customers in Japan.



Product Arrangements



We license software using three license types: term, subscription and perpetual. Customers who prefer to license technology for a specified, limited period of time will choose either a term or subscription license, and customers who prefer to have the right to use the technology continuously without time restriction will choose a perpetual license. Customers who desire to use new software technology during the life of the contract will select a subscription license, which allows them limited access to unspecified new technology on a when-and-if-available basis, as opposed to a term or perpetual license, which does not include the right to use new technology. Payment terms for term and subscription licenses generally provide for payments to be made in installments over the license period and payment terms for perpetual licenses generally are net 30 days.



Our hardware products are either sold or leased to our customers.



We generally license our Design IP under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per-design basis.



For a further description of our license agreements, our hardware sale or lease agreements, revenue recognition policies and results of operations, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Critical Accounting Estimates" under Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."











Backlog



Our backlog was approximately $1.7 billionas of bothDecember 29, 2012andDecember 31, 2011. Our backlog as ofDecember 29, 2012consisted of fully executed arrangements with effective dates commencing no later thanDecember 29, 2012with revenue to be recognized thereafter, and included a variety of license types, generally including, but not limited to:

•Licenses for software products and Design IP;

•Maintenance on hardware and software products;

•Bookings for the sale of hardware products that have expected delivery dates afterDecember 29, 2012and prior toMarch 30, 2013;

•Leases of hardware products;

•Licenses with payments that are outside our customary terms; and

•The undelivered portion of engineering services contracts.



The substantial majority of our backlog consists of customer contracts for which product and maintenance revenue is deferred and recognized ratably over the contract life. Historically, we have not experienced significant cancellations of our contracts with customers. For engineering services contracts in backlog, completion dates are occasionally rescheduled, delaying revenue recognition under those contracts beyond the original anticipated completion date. Changes in customer license types or payment terms also can affect the timing of revenue recognition. During fiscal 2012, approximately73%of our revenue came from backlog as ofDecember 31, 2011. We expect approximately$1.0 billion, or approximately70%of our fiscal 2013 revenue to come from arrangements that were in backlog as ofDecember 29, 2012. The actual percentage of revenue coming from backlog during fiscal 2013 may change if our actual business levels in fiscal 2013 are different than our current expectations.



Revenue Seasonality



As a result of our ratable revenue model, our overall exposure to short term revenue seasonality has generally been reduced.



Research and Development



Our research and development expense was$454.1 millionduring fiscal 2012,$400.7 millionduring fiscal 2011 and$376.4 millionduring fiscal 2010.



The primary areas of our research and development include the following:

•SoC design and verification;

•High-performance IC packaging, SiP and PCB design;

•System‑level modeling and verification and hardware/software co-verification; and

•VIP and Design IP.



Our future performance depends largely on our ability to maintain and enhance our current product development and commercialization of newly developed products or capabilities, and to offer solutions that meet increasingly demanding productivity, quality, predictability and cost requirements. Our offerings must keep pace with our customers' technical developments, including the adoption of advanced process nodes, and industry standards.



Manufacturing and Software Distribution



We perform final assembly and testing of our hardware products at our headquarters in San Jose, California. Subcontractors manufacture all major subassemblies, including all individual PCBs and custom ICs, and supply them for qualification and testing before their incorporation into the assembled product.



Software and documentation are primarily distributed to customers by secure electronic delivery or on DVD.



Proprietary Technology



Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology. We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret laws, licenses and restrictive agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights in technology and products. Many of our products include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. We may have to seek new licenses or renew existing licenses for third-party software and other intellectual property in the future. As part of performing engineering services for customers, our engineering services business uses certain software and other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including that of our competitors.











Competition



We compete in EDA software and hardware products most frequently with Synopsys, Inc., and Mentor Graphics Corporation, but also with numerous other EDA providers (such as Ansys, Inc., Atrenta, Inc., ATopTech, Inc., Berkeley Design Automation, Inc. and Zuken Ltd., and many others offering "point solutions"), with manufacturers of electronic devices that have developed, acquired or have the capability to develop their own EDA products, and with numerous electronics design and consulting companies. During fiscal 2012, Synopsys acquired Magma Design Automation, Inc., EVE SA and Springsoft Inc. We expect that Synopsys' integration of these companies into its product offerings will result in increased competitive pressures. In the area of Design IP, we compete with Synopsys and numerous smaller IP companies. We generally compete on the basis of quality, product features, level of integration or compatibility with other tools, price and payment terms.



Certain competitive factors in the engineering services business differ from those of the products businesses. While we  compete with other EDA companies in the engineering services business, our principal competitors include independent engineering service businesses. These companies vary in focus, geographic location, capability, cost structure and pricing. Business models of these companies range from services-only engineering work to delivery of completed ICs. Many of these companies are also customers, and therefore use our product offerings in the delivery of their services or products. While we still compete with these companies by focusing on the design of complex analog, digital and mixed-signal ICs and SoCs, we have moved certain of our design services engineers to our research and development activities to further enhance our growing portfolio of Design IP and to improve our competitive position in that scalable business.



International Operations



We have49sales offices, design centers and research and development facilities, approximately60%of which are located outside of the United States. We consider customer sales and support requirements, the availability of a skilled workforce, and costs and efficiencies, among other relative benefits, when determining what operations to locate internationally. For an additional description of our international operations, see the discussion under the heading "The effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our financial condition"under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" andNote 21 in the notes to consolidated financial statements.



Employees



As ofDecember 29, 2012, we employed approximately5,200people.





Executive Officers of the Registrant



The following table provides information regarding our executive officers as ofFebruary 21, 2013:

NameAgePositions and OfficesLip-Bu Tan53President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorGeoffrey G. Ribar54Senior Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJames J. Cowie48Senior Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryChi-Ping Hsu57Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentCharlie Huang49Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field OperationsMartin N. Lund45Senior Vice President, Research and DevelopmentNimish H. Modi50Senior Vice President, Research and Development



Our executive officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.



LIP-BU TAN has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cadence since January 2009. Mr. Tan has been a member of the Cadence Board of Directors since February 2004. In 1987, Mr. Tan founded Walden International, an international venture capital firm, and since that time has served as its Chairman. Mr. Tan also serves as a director of Ambarella, Inc., Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation and SINA Corporation. Mr. Tan received an M.S. in nuclear engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an MBA from the University of San Francisco, and a B.S. from Nanyang University in Singapore.



GEOFFREY G. RIBAR has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cadence since November 2010. Before joining Cadence in October 2010, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer of Telegent Systems, Inc., a semiconductor









company, from May 2008 to October 2010. From January 2006 to April 2008, Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at SiRF Technology, Inc., a semiconductor company that was acquired by CSR plc in 2009. Mr. Ribar served as Chief Financial Officer at other semiconductor companies including Asyst Technology, Inc., Matrix Semiconductor, Inc., and nVidia Corporation. Mr. Ribar also held various positions including Corporate Controller at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a microchip manufacturing company. Mr. Ribar received his Bachelor of Science degree in Chemistry, as well as an MBA, from the University of Michigan.



JAMES J. COWIE has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Cadence since April 2008 and Secretary of Cadence since May 2008. From August 2000 to March 2008, Mr. Cowie held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President - Business Development, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Mr. Cowie holds a bachelor's degree in economics from Duke University and a J.D. from Stanford Law School.



CHI-PING HSU has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From April 2003 to November 2008, Mr. Hsu held several positions at Cadence, most recently as Corporate Vice President, IC Digital and Power Forward. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Hsu served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Get2Chip Inc., a supplier of high-performance system-on-chip synthesis that was acquired by Cadence in April 2003. Mr. Hsu also serves as a director of MoSys, Inc. Mr. Hsu holds a Ph.D. degree in EECS from the University of California, Berkeley, and a BSEE degree from National Taiwan University.



CHARLIE HUANG has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations of Cadence since April 2011. From January 2009 to April 2011, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer of Cadence. From April 2010 to April 2011, Mr. Huang also served as Chief of Staff. From April 2007 to January 2009, Mr. Huang served as Senior Vice President - Business Development of Cadence. Mr. Huang was General Partner at Telos Venture Partners, a Cadence-affiliated venture capital firm, from 2004 to 2005. From 2001 to March 2007, Mr. Huang held several positions at Cadence in engineering management and business development. Before joining Cadence, Mr. Huang co-founded and was Chief Executive Officer of CadMOS Design Technology, Inc., an EDA company that was acquired by Cadence in 2001. Mr. Huang holds a BSEE from Shanghai Jiao Tong University and a Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon University.



MARTIN N. LUND has served a Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since March 2012. Prior to joining Cadence, from March 2000 to March 2012, Mr. Lund held several positions at Broadcom Corporation, most recently as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Broadcom's Network Switching Business. Mr. Lund holds a technical degree from Frederiksberg Technical College and Risø National Laboratory at the Technical University of Denmark.



NIMISH H. MODI has served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development of Cadence since November 2008. From August 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Modi served as Corporate Vice President, Front-End Design. Before joining Cadence, from May 1988 to August 2006, Mr. Modi held several positions at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor company, most recently as Vice President in the Enterprise Platforms Group. Mr. Modi holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree in electrical engineering from the University of Bombay and a Masters degree in electrical engineering from Virginia Tech.





