ITEM 1:BUSINESS

ANSYS develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including
aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, electronics, biomedical, energy and defense. Headquartered at Southpointe in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employ approximately 1,660 people as of December 31, 2010 and focus on
the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and
validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS®suite of simulation technologies through a global network of
independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company’s intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model.

As defined by accounting guidance issued for disclosures about segments of an enterprise, the Company operates as one segment. Given the
integrated approach to the multi-discipline problem-solving needs of the Company’s customers, a single sale of software may contain components from multiple product areas and include combined technologies. As a result, it is impracticable for
the Company to provide accurate historical or current reporting among its various product lines.

The Company’s product
portfolio consists of the following:

ANSYS Workbench™

ANSYS Workbench is
the framework upon which the Company’s suite of advanced engineering simulation technology is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with
drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (“CAD”) connectivity, an automated project level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS Workbench delivers
productivity, enabling Simulation Driven Product
Development™.

Multiphysics

The
Company’s multiphysics product suite combines solver technology for all physics disciplines with an open and adaptive ANSYS Workbench environment, flexible coupled-physics simulation methods and parallel scalability. Together these technologies
form the foundation for comprehensive multiphysics simulation capable of solving complex engineering challenges.







Structural Mechanics

The Company’s structural mechanics product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help deliver better and
innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts,
materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.

Fluid
Dynamics

The Company’s fluid dynamics product suite offers modeling of fluid flow and other related physical
phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The fluid dynamics product suite contains general purpose computational fluid
dynamics software and additional specialized products to address specific industry applications.

Explicit Dynamics

The Company’s explicit dynamics product suite simulates short, high deformation, large strain, fracture or complete material failure
applications. This product suite is ideal for simulating physical events that occur in a short period of time and may result in material damage or failure. These types of events are often difficult or expensive to study experimentally.

Electromagnetics

The
Company’s electromagnetics product suite provides electromagnetic field simulation software used by engineers to design high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software is used to streamline the design process and
predict performance of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits and printed circuit boards, as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power
electronics equipment prior to building a prototype.

Simulation Process & Data Management

ANSYS Engineering Knowledge Manager™(“ANSYS EKM”) is a comprehensive solution for simulation-based process and data management challenges. ANSYS EKM provides solutions and benefits to all
levels of a company and enables an organization to address the critical issues associated with simulation data, including backup and archival, traceability and audit trail, process automation, collaboration and capture of engineering expertise, and
intellectual property protection.

Academic

The Company’s academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers: associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various noncommercial
products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. This academic product suite also provides
flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a low-cost, problem-size-limited product suitable for student use at home.







High-Performance Computing

The Company’s high-performance computing (“HPC”) product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite
delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of the Company’s simulation software by supporting structural, fluids, thermal and electromagnetic simulations in a single HPC solution. This product suite
decreases the turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.

Geometry Interfaces

The Company offers comprehensive geometry handling
solutions for engineering simulation in an integrated environment with direct interfaces to all major CAD systems, support of additional readers and translators, and an integrated geometry modeler exclusively focused on analysis.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The
Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes accelerated new integrated product releases. The Company’s product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to
increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management systems. The Company’s product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line
with new functional modules, further integration with CAD and product lifecycle management (“PLM”) products, and the development of new products. The Company’s products run on the most widely used engineering computing platforms and
operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.

During 2010, the Company completed the following
major product development activities and releases (in chronological order):



•The release of version 12.1 of HFSS™software, which helps engineers design, simulate and validate the behavior of complex high-performance radio frequency, microwave and millimeter-wave devices in
next-generation wireless devices, defense communication systems and consumer electronics. The release introduces a new integral equation electromagnetic solver option, which is effective for large-scale radiating and scattering simulation studies.
The new solver computes the currents on the surfaces of objects and uses those currents to accurately determine the radiated and/or scattered fields. Users of this latest version of HFSS software can achieve a reduction in development time and costs
while at the same time realizing increased reliability and design optimization.



•The release of version 6.0 of Ansoft Designer®with Solver on Demand®, which
enables electronic design engineers to quickly and accurately analyze signal integrity, power integrity and electromagnetic interference problems from a single schematic- and layout-based environment. This release enables high-speed electronics and
RF/microwave designers to access industry-leading field and circuit simulation tools, while designing electronic packages and printed circuit boards (PCBs), early in the design cycle before manufacturing costs are incurred. The Solver on Demand
technology offers the ability to predict how high-frequency electromagnetic components affect the integrated circuits.



•The release of version 13.0 of ANSYS®software, which incorporates valuable capabilities that compress design cycles, optimize product performance across multiple physics, maximize the accuracy of virtual
prototypes and automate the simulation process. The software features an electromagnetic transient solver that produces higher-fidelity results in dynamic simulation environments. The release also facilitates the collaboration of multiple users with
different engineering specialties to exchange data and develop real-world simulations that incorporate multiphysics. The software suite can provide speedup ratios that are greater than previous software releases. Complex multiphysics simulations can
be accomplished more quickly and efficiently, speeding up product development and market launch initiatives.







The Company’s total research and development expenses were $89.0
million, $79.9 million and $71.6 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 15.3%, 15.4% and 15.0% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s product development staff consisted of approximately 530
full-time employees, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development
activities, and intends to continue to make significant investments in this area, particularly as it relates to expanding the capabilities of its flagship products and other products within its broad portfolio of simulation software, evolution of
its ANSYS®Workbench™platform, and ongoing integration.

PRODUCT QUALITY

The Company’s employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures
and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority
of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services, and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and
verification in accordance with processes established under the Company’s quality system.

SALES AND MARKETING

The Company distributes and supports its products through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own
direct sales offices. This network provides the Company with a cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables the Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides
relative stability to the Company’s operations to offset geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets. Approximately 27% in 2010, 26% in 2009 and 30% in 2008 of the
Company’s total revenue was derived through the indirect sales channel.

The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new
customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company’s channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each
channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent the Company’s expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support.

The Company also has a direct sales management organization in place to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to
implement a worldwide major account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct
sales offices. A Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Support heads the Company’s sales management organization.

During
2010, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company’s direct sales offices employ approximately 430 full-time employees who are responsible for the sales, marketing
initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the Company’s overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.

The Company’s products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world’s largest industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of
the Company’s revenue in 2010, 2009 or 2008.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in
Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part
II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS

The Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, and marketing relationships
with hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company’s products, provide access to new
customers, expand the Company’s sales channels, develop specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation (“EDA”), product data management and PLM systems.

The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, Dassault Systèmes, Parametric
Technology Corporation and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc., to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products. In addition, the
Company has an agreement with Dassault Systèmes under which ANSYS fluid flow modeling technology is embedded in the CATIA V5 product lifecycle management environment. This fully integrated product, FLUENT for CATIA V5, enables model building,
computation, post-processing and data management within the analysis infrastructure of CATIA V5.

Similarly, the Company
maintains marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence, Synopsys and Mentor Graphics. These relationships support transfer of data between electronics design and layout packages and the
ANSYS electronics simulation portfolio.

The Company has established relationships with leading suppliers of computer
hardware, including Intel, AMD, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, IBM, Dell, Cray, Panasas, QLogic, Mellanox, Platform Computing and other leading regional resellers and system integrators. These relationships provide the Company with
joint marketing opportunities, such as advertising, public relations, editorial coverage and customer events. In addition, these alliances provide the Company with early access and technical collaboration on new processors and related computing
technologies, ensuring that the Company’s software products are certified to run effectively on the most current hardware platforms. Key 2010 milestones included incorporation of the latest Intel compilers and math libraries, resulting in
significant performance boosts, and initial support for acceleration of computations using General-Purpose Graphical Processing Units.

The Company’s Enhanced Solution Partner Program actively encourages specialized developers of software solutions to use the Company’s technology as a development platform for their applications
and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of the Company’s software. With over 100 active enhanced solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid
simulation, acoustics, turbomachinery and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company’s technology offerings. During 2010, the Company focused on the integration of partner solutions in the Workbench environment,
with improved interoperability for solutions from DYNARDO GMBH, JAHM Software, Inc., Materiality, L.L.C., Red Cedar Technology, SpaceClaim Corp., and Vistagy, Inc .

The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology Corporation (“LSTC”) whereby LSTC has provided LS-DYNA software for explicit dynamics solutions used in
applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of the LS-DYNA software with the Company’s pre- and post-processing capabilities and provides updates and
problem resolution in return for royalties from sales of the ANSYS/LS-DYNA combined product.

COMPETITION

The Company believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality,
flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company
reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.







The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and
services. Some of the Company’s current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the
Company. The Company’s current and possible future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price
reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

The Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and
trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant
customers nonexclusive licenses for the use of the Company’s products, which are typically nontransferable. License agreements for the Company’s products are directly between the Company and end users. Use of the licensed software product
is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company’s software products and the licensed
software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. Customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and updates, or may lease the
product on a fixed term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.

The Company
licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard copy license terms and forms. For certain software products, the Company primarily relies on “click-wrapped” licenses. The enforceability of these types of
agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.

The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its
software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS, AUTODYN, CFX, FLUENT, Maxwell, and other marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Additionally, the
Company was awarded a patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for its Web-based reporting technology, and has a number of patent applications pending.

Employees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information and, where legally permitted, that restrict engagement in or
connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in some cases, for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created by them during their term of
employment are the property of the Company. In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose the Company’s trade secrets and other proprietary information.

Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of the Company’s technology and proprietary information
will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company’s products in certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel
partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable.

The software development industry is
characterized by rapid technological change. Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product
maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various legal protections of its technology that may be available.

The Company does not believe that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the
Company or its







licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products
and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter
into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.

SEASONAL VARIATIONS

The Company’s business has experienced
seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from the slowdown during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company’s global customers. The
Company’s revenue and margins are typically highest in the fourth quarter.

BACKLOG

The Company generally ships its products within 30 days after acceptance of an order and execution of a software license agreement.
Accordingly, the Company does not believe that its backlog at any particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had no significant backlog of orders received but not invoiced.

EMPLOYEES

As of
December 31, 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,660 full-time employees. At that date, there were also contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing development services and technical support. The Company
believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s website iswww.ansys.com. The Company makes available on its website, free of charge, Annual Reports on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company has posted the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as well as the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics, Standard Business Practices and Corporate Governance Guidelines on its website. Information posted on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



