ITEM 1:BUSINESS

ANSYS develops
and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, electronics,
biomedical, energy and defense. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employ approximately 2,100 people as of December 31, 2011 and focus on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable
users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS suite of
simulation technologies through a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company’s intention to continue to maintain this
hybrid sales and distribution model.

On August 1, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of Apache Design, Inc., a
leading simulation software provider for advanced, low-power solutions in the electronics industry. Under the terms of the merger agreement, ANSYS acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of Apache for a purchase price of $314.0 million, which
included $31.9 million in acquired cash and short-term investments on Apache’s balance sheet, $3.2 million in ANSYS replacement stock option awards issued to holders of partially-vested Apache stock options and $9.5 million in contingent
consideration that is based on the retention of a key member of Apache’s management. The Company funded the transaction entirely with existing cash balances. The complementary combination is expected to accelerate development and delivery of
new and innovative products to the marketplace while lowering design and engineering costs for customers.

The Company’s
product portfolio consists of the following:

ANSYS WorkbenchTM

ANSYS Workbench is the framework upon which the Company’s suite of advanced engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation
process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (“CAD”) connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive
parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS Workbench platform delivers unprecedented productivity, enabling Simulation Driven Product DevelopmentTM.

Multiphysics

The
Company’s multiphysics product suite allows engineers and designers to create virtual prototypes of their designs operating under real-world multiphysics conditions. As the range of need for simulation expands,







companies must be able to accurately predict how complex products will behave in real-world environments, where multiple types of coupled physics interact. ANSYS multiphysics software enables
engineers and scientists to simulate the interactions between structural mechanics, heat transfer, fluid flow and electromagnetics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.

Structural Mechanics

The Company’s structural mechanics product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase
productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have
capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.

Fluid Dynamics

The
Company’s fluid dynamics product suite offers modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already
existing installations. The fluid dynamics product suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.

Explicit Dynamics

The Company’s explicit dynamics product suite
simulates events involving short-duration, large-strain, large-deformation, fracture, complete material failure or structural problems with complex interactions. This product suite is ideal for simulating physical events that occur in a short period
of time and may result in material damage or failure. Such events are often difficult or expensive to study experimentally.

Electromagnetics

The
Company’s electromagnetics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance - all prior to building a
prototype - of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits (“IC”) and printed circuit boards (“PCB”), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive
components and power electronics equipment.

System Simulation

The Company delivers the unique ability to perform complete simulation studies as a “system” for some of the most modern and complex product designs. This is accomplished through a complete set
of physics solutions that are integrated into a multiphysics capabilities set. A collaborative simulation environment provides modeling scalability specifically for evaluating entire systems, including 3-D high-fidelity models, multibody dynamics,
circuit reduced-order models, and any combination of these. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.

Simulation Process and Data Management

ANSYS Engineering Knowledge ManagerTM(“ANSYS EKM”) is a comprehensive solution for simulation-based process and data management challenges. ANSYS EKM provides solutions and benefits to all levels of a company, enabling an
organization to address the critical issues associated with simulation data, including backup and archival, traceability and audit trail, process automation, collaboration and capture of engineering expertise, and intellectual property protection.







Academic

The Company’s academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers: associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various noncommercial
products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It provides flexible terms of use and
more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a low-cost, problem-size-limited product suitable for student use at home.

High-Performance Computing

The Company’s high-performance computing
(“HPC”) product suite enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The HPC product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of the
Company’s simulation software by supporting structural, fluids, thermal and electromagnetic simulations in a single HPC solution. This product suite decreases the turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider
multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.

Geometry Interfaces

The Company offers comprehensive geometry handling solutions for engineering simulation in an integrated environment with direct
interfaces to all major CAD systems, support of additional readers and translators, and an integrated geometry modeler exclusively focused on analysis.

Meshing

Creating a mesh that transforms a physical model into a
mathematical model is a critical and foundational step in almost every engineering simulation study. Accurate meshing is especially challenging today with increasing product design complexity and heightened expectations of product performance. The
Company’s meshing technology provides a means to balance these requirements, obtaining the right mesh for each simulation in the most automated way possible. The technology is built on the strengths of world-class leading algorithms; these are
integrated in a single environment to produce the most robust and reliable meshing available.

Apache Design Low-Power Electronic Solutions

The Company’s suite of Apache software delivers power analysis and optimization platforms along with comprehensive
and integrated methodologies that provide capabilities for managing the power budget, power delivery integrity, and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with
correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system including IC, package, and PCB; efficiency for ease-of-debug and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and
electronic ecosystem enablement.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes accelerated new integrated product releases. The Company’s product development strategy centers on ongoing
development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management systems. The Company’s product development
efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD (“ECAD”), product lifecycle management (“PLM”) products and the development of new products. The
Company’s products run on the most widely used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.







During 2011, the Company completed the following major product development activities and
releases:



•The release of version 14.0 of ANSYS®software, which includes new, advanced features that make it easier, faster and less costly for organizations to bring new products to market. The software automates
many user-intensive operations, which helps product developers minimize time spent setting up problems. The release also allows engineers to simulate product complexities such as state changes, nonlinear phenomena and multiphysics interactions as
they exist in the real world, from a single component to entire systems. The release capitalizes on modern hardware advancements to deliver complex simulation calculations faster than other alternatives on the market today.



•The release of Apache’s RTL Power Model (RPMTM), which is designed to optimize a wide range of power-sensitive applications, such as ultra-low-power electronics. RPM
bridges the power gap from register-transfer-language (“RTL”) design to physical implementation. The new technology accurately predicts IC power behavior at the RTL level with consideration for how the design is physically implemented. As
a result, the technology helps to enable chip power delivery network and IC package design decisions early in the design process, as well as to ensure chip power integrity sign-off.

The Company’s total research and development expenses were $108.5 million, $89.0 million and $79.9 million in
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 15.7%, 15.3% and 15.4% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s product development staff consisted of approximately 730 full-time employees, most of whom hold advanced
degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities and intends to continue to make
investments in this area, particularly as it relates to expanding the capabilities of its flagship products and other products within its broad portfolio of simulation software, evolution of its
ANSYS®WorkbenchTMplatform, HPC capabilities and ongoing integration.

PRODUCT QUALITY

The Company’s employees generally perform product
development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of
project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2008 standard. The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services,
and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under the Company’s quality system.

SALES AND MARKETING

The Company distributes and supports its products
through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own direct sales offices. This network provides the Company with a cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables the
Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to the Company’s operations to offset geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of
new geographic markets. Approximately 26% in 2011, 27% in 2010 and 26% in 2009 of the Company’s total revenue was derived through the indirect sales channel.

The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical
support. The Company’s channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent the Company’s expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training,
consultation and customer support.







The Company also has a direct sales management organization in place to develop an
enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in
strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices. A Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Support heads the Company’s sales management organization.

During 2011, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company’s direct sales offices employ approximately 1,050 full-time
employees who are responsible for the sales, technical support, engineering consulting services, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the Company’s overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.

The Company’s products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world’s largest
industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of the Company’s revenue in 2011, 2010 or 2009.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV,
Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS

The Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, and marketing relationships with hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD,
ECAD and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company’s products, provide access to new customers, expand the Company’s sales channels, develop
specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation (“EDA”), product data management and PLM systems.

The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, Dassault Systèmes, Parametric Technology Corporation and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management
Software Inc., to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products. In addition, the Company has an agreement with Dassault Systèmes under which
ANSYS fluid flow modeling technology is embedded in the CATIA V5 product lifecycle management environment. This fully integrated product, FLUENT for CATIA V5, enables model building, computation, post-processing and data management within the
analysis infrastructure of CATIA V5.

Similarly, the Company maintains marketing and software development relationships with
leading EDA software companies, including Cadence, Synopsys and Mentor Graphics. These relationships support transfer of data between electronics design and layout packages and the ANSYS electronics simulation portfolio.

The Company has established relationships with leading suppliers of computer hardware, including Intel, AMD, Microsoft, NVIDIA,
Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Dell, Cray, QLogic, Mellanox, Platform Computing and other leading regional resellers and system integrators. These relationships provide the Company with joint marketing opportunities, such as advertising, public relations,
editorial coverage and customer events. In addition, these alliances provide the Company with early access and technical collaboration on new and emerging computing technologies, ensuring that the Company’s software products are certified to
run effectively on the most current hardware platforms. Key 2011 milestones included software tuning for the latest Intel processors, resulting in significant performance boosts, and extension of support for computations using General-Purpose
Graphical Processing Units.







The Company’s Enhanced Solution Partner Program actively encourages specialized
developers of software solutions to use the Company’s technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of the Company’s software. With over 100 active
enhanced solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid simulation, acoustics, turbomachinery and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company’s
technology offerings. During 2011, the Company extended its ecosystem of Workbench integrated partner solutions, working with FE-Design, Safe Technology, EVEN AG, RBF Morph, VCollab, and e-XStream.

The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology Corporation (“LSTC”) whereby LSTC has provided
LS-DYNA software for explicit dynamics solutions used in applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration of the LS-DYNA software with the Company’s pre- and
post-processing capabilities and provides updates and problem resolution in return for royalties from sales of the ANSYS/LS-DYNA combined product.

The Company also has a software license agreement with HBM that provides the advanced fatigue capabilities of nCode DesignLifeTM, a leading durability software from HBM. ANSYS®nCode DesignLife technology leverages the open architecture of the ANSYS platform and enables mechanical engineers to more easily address complex product life and
durability issues, all before a prototype is ever built. During 2011, customer events and “ask the expert” sessions were conducted with focus on the Workbench-integrated nCode DesignLife offering.

COMPETITION

The Company
believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range
of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.

The Company continues to experience competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company’s current and
possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company’s current and possible
future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could
result in lower revenues, margins and net income.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

The Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws; license
agreements; nondisclosure and other contractual provisions; and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive
licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of the Company’s products. License agreements for the Company’s products are directly between the Company and end users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to
specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company’s software products and the licensed software is
subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. Customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on
a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.







The Company licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard
copy license terms and forms. For certain software products, the Company primarily relies on “click-wrapped” licenses. The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.

The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has
obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS and other marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Additionally, the Company was awarded numerous patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and has a number of patent
applications pending. The Company does not always choose to seek patent protection for its intellectual property, as the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time consuming. As a result, the Company relies on the protection of its
source code as a trade secret.

Employees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose
trade secrets or confidential information and, where legally permitted, that restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in some cases, for
specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created by them during their term of employment are the property of the Company. In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose the
Company’s trade secrets and other proprietary information.

Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that
misappropriation of the Company’s technology and proprietary information will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company’s products in
certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary in the future to enforce
the Company’s rights to its trade secrets and proprietary information or to enforce its patent rights, and it is possible that in the future the Company’s competitors may be able to obtain our trade secrets or to independently develop
unpatented technology similar to ours.

The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change.
Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to
establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various legal protections of its technology that may be available.

The Company does not believe that any of its products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the
Company or its licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the
functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such
royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to the Company.

SEASONAL VARIATIONS

The Company’s business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from the slowdown
during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company’s global customers. The Company’s revenue is typically highest in the fourth quarter.







BACKLOG

As a result of the timing of the Company’s invoicing with respect to its acceptance of an order and execution of a software license agreement, the Company has historically had an insignificant order
backlog. Due to the August 1, 2011 acquisition of Apache, which has different billing arrangements with customers than those historically used by the Company, there is a backlog of $56.3 million of orders received but not invoiced as of December 31,
2011.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 2,100 full-time employees. At that date, there were also contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing
development services and technical support. The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s website iswww.ansys.com. The Company makes available on its website, free of charge, Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished
to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company has posted the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Strategy Committee, as well as the Company’s Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics, Standard Business Practices and Corporate Governance Guidelines on its website. Information posted on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



