ITEM 1:BUSINESS

ANSYS develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and technologies widely used by engineers and designers across a broad spectrum of industries, including aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, electronics, biomedical,
energy and defense. Headquartered at Southpointe in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, the Company and its subsidiaries employ approximately 1,600 people as of December 31, 2009 and focus on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable
users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. The Company distributes its ANSYS®suite of simulation technologies through a global network of resellers and distributors (collectively, channel
partners) and direct sales offices in strategic, global locations. It is the Company’s intention to continue to maintain this mixed sales and distribution model.

As a result of the July 31, 2008 acquisition of Ansoft Corporation (“Ansoft”), the Company operates as two operating segments that the Company determined may be aggregated. Given the
integrated approach to the multi-discipline problem-solving needs of the Company’s customers, a single sale of software may contain components from multiple product areas and include combined technologies. As a result, it is impracticable for
the Company to provide accurate historical or current reporting among its various product-lines.

The Company’s product
portfolio consists of the following:

ANSYS WorkbenchTM

ANSYS Workbench is the framework upon which the Company’s suite of advanced engineering simulation technology is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation
process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (“CAD”) connectivity, an automated project level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and
integrated optimization tools, the ANSYS Workbench delivers productivity, enabling Simulation Driven Product DevelopmentTM.

Multiphysics

The Company’s multiphysics product suite combines solver technology for all physics
disciplines with an open and adaptive ANSYS Workbench environment, flexible coupled-physics simulation methods and parallel scalability. Together these technologies form the foundation for comprehensive multiphysics simulation capable of solving
complex engineering challenges.







Structural Mechanics

The Company’s structural mechanics product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help deliver better and
innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools include broad capabilities that cover analysis types, elements, contact,
materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capability all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems.

Fluid
Dynamics

The Company’s fluid dynamics product suite offers modeling fluid flow and other related physical phenomena.
Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The Company’s suite contains general purpose computational fluid dynamics software and
additional specialized products to address specific industry applications.

Explicit Dynamics

The Company’s explicit dynamics product suite simulates short, high deformation, large strain, fracture or complete material failure
applications. The Company’s product suite is ideal for simulating physical events that occur in a short period of time and may result in material damage or failure. These types of events are often difficult or expensive to study experimentally.

Electromagnetics

The Company’s electromagnetics product suite provides industry leading electromagnetic field simulation software used by electrical engineers to design high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software is used to
streamline the design process and predict performance of mobile communication, internet-access, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits and printed circuit boards, as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive
components and power electronics equipment prior to building a prototype.

System and Circuit Simulation

The Company’s system and circuit simulation technology provides schematic capture, layout and design management capabilities that allow
engineers to simulate high-speed and high-power electronic circuits coupled to virtual physical models of components derived from the Company’s electromagnetic, structural mechanics, fluid dynamics and multiphysics products to predict overall
system-level performance. This type of simulation is essential for engineers designing wind energy and hybrid-propulsion systems, as well as high-speed electronic systems such as wireless communication devices.

Simulation Process & Data Management

ANSYS Engineering Knowledge ManagerTM(“ANSYS EKM”) is a comprehensive solution for simulation-based process and data management challenges. ANSYS EKM provides solutions and benefits to all levels of a company and enables it to
address the critical issues associated with simulation data, including backup and archival, traceability and audit trail, process automation, and collaboration and capture of engineering expertise.

Academic

The
Company’s academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers: associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes a range of noncommercial products that bundle a broad range of physics
and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The Company’s product suite







provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. The product suite also provides flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and
post-doctoral research projects. The Company also provides a low cost, problem size limited product suitable for student use at home.

High-Performance Computing

The Company’s high-performance computing (“HPC”) product suite
enables enhanced insight into product performance and improves the productivity of the design process. The Company’s product suite delivers cross-physics parallel processing capability for the full spectrum of the Company’s simulation
software by supporting structural, fluids, thermal and electromagnetic simulations in a single HPC solution. The Company’s product suite also increases the turnaround time for individual simulations, enables users to consider multiple
design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.

Geometry Interfaces

The Company offers comprehensive geometry handling solutions for engineering simulation in an integrated environment with direct interfaces
to all major CAD systems, support of additional readers and translators, and an integrated geometry modeler exclusively focused on analysis.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

The Company makes significant investments in research and development and emphasizes
accelerated new integrated product releases. The Company’s product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers
can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management systems. The Company’s product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD and product lifecycle
management (“PLM”) products, and the development of new products. The Company’s products run on the most widely used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.

During 2009, the Company completed the following major product development activities and releases (in chronological order):



•The release of version 8.0 of Simplorer®software, which offers a next-generation user interface, advanced modeling capabilities, enhanced integration with third party simulation software and computational
performance enhancements. It enables users to create an accurate, customized design flow for rapidly emerging applications that involve multiple engineering domains. Other enhancements include an insulated gate bipolar transistor device
characterization tool, which allows users to quickly and accurately create average and dynamic models of power semiconductor devices, an online model database, new function handling techniques and solver methodologies to optimize simulation
performance and distributed solve capability, which allows users to distribute parametric variations across a network of computers.



•The release of version 12.0 of ANSYS software, which dramatically compresses design and analysis cycles, enabling parametric studies and design
optimization across multiple physics, increasing the accuracy and completeness of virtual prototypes, and capturing and reusing simulation processes and data. This software suite supports fast product design and validation in a complete, highly
usable virtual environment that captures complex and coupled physical phenomena. It offers unequalled technical breadth, which allows customers to explore a complete range of dynamic behavior, and encompasses a broad solver portfolio that spans a
full range of functionality. It also includes HPC milestones, such as optimized parallel computing performance on multi-core processors, expanded support for large simulators, scaling breakthroughs and support for parallel file systems.



•The release of version 4.0 of SIwaveTMsoftware, which includes new features for signal-integrity, power-integrity and electromagnetic compatibility testing.
It also includes an improved desktop graphical user interface with new post-processing of results, solver enhancements that provide accurate







solutions beyond 10 Gb/s, automation that links SIwaveTMelectromagnetics with circuit simulation and a new link that enables accurate characterization of additional heating
due to copper-resistive losses that engineers have previously estimated or ignored completely.



•The release of version 12.0 of HFSSTMsoftware, which helps engineers design, simulate and validate the behavior of complex, high-performance radio
frequency, microwave and millimeter-wave devices in next-generation wireless communication and defense systems. It offers a key HPC enhancement, domain decomposition, which allows engineers to simulate and design at a scale and speed never before
possible. It also includes key updates in mesh generation and solver technologies, enhancements to the user interface and the modeler, a more robust meshing algorithm and mixed element orders, curvilinear elements and adjoint derivative computation.



•The release of version 2.0 ANSYS EKMTMsoftware, which addresses how to better manage, share and reuse simulation data and how to capture the engineering
expertise that a simulation result represents. It offers extensive capabilities for archival and management of simulation data, traceability and audit trail, advanced search and retrieval, report generation and simulation comparison,
process/workflow automation, collaboration tools, and capture and deployment of best practices. It also includes a new scripting interface that enables the creating and publishing of custom application templates, which can then be addressed by users
over the internet.



•The release of version 5.0 of Ansoft Designer®with Nexxim®software, which
supports Simulation Driven Product Development of electronic products and includes features that compress the electronic design and analysis cycle. It offers a distributed-solve HPC capability that allows engineers to analyze process variations
within a full signal integrity analysis across a network of computers and links with ANSYS DesignXplorerTMsoftware, which enables design of experiments, sensitivity studies and six-sigma design. It also includes a new
simulation engine, which allows engineers to simulate entire wireless systems while linking to highly accurate transistor and electromagnetic models.



•The release of version 12.1 of ANSYS software, which incorporates tools that further automate the product development process and extends the
integration of its products into the ANSYS Workbench environment, resulting in faster modeling times and cross-physics automation. It includes automation, which enables parametric studies and design optimization across multiple physics, increases
the accuracy and completeness of virtual prototypes and allows for capture and reuse of simulation processes and data. It also offers tools that record, customize and automate analysis steps through journaling and scripting. This software release
includes the ANSYS HPCTMsolution set, which provides a
cross-physics parallel computing capability that supports structural, fluids, thermal and electromagnetic simulation in a single solution.

The Company’s total research and development expenses were $79.9 million, $71.6 million and $56.5 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, or 15.4%, 15.0% and 14.7% of total revenue,
respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s product development staff consisted of approximately 500 full-time employees, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer
science or related disciplines. The Company has traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities, and intends to continue to make significant investments in this area, particularly as it relates to ongoing
integration and evolution of its framework and portfolio of software technologies.

PRODUCT QUALITY

The Company’s employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work
instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define for each project the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of
software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2000 standard. The Company establishes quality plans for its products and services, and subjects product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification
in accordance with processes established under the Company’s quality system.







SALES AND MARKETING

The Company distributes and supports its products through a global network of independent channel partners, as well as through its own direct sales offices. This network provides the Company with a
cost-effective, highly specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables the Company to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to the Company’s operations to offset
geography-specific economic trends and provides the Company with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets. Approximately 26% in 2009 and 30% in each of 2008 and 2007 of the Company’s total revenue was derived through the
indirect sales channel.

The channel partners sell ANSYS products to new customers, expand installations within the existing
customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of ANSYS technical support. The Company’s channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately
represent the Company’s expanding product-lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support.

The Company also has a direct sales management organization in place to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide major account strategy. The sales management
organization also functions as a focal point for requests to ANSYS from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices. A Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Support heads
the Company’s sales management organization.

During 2009, the Company continued to invest in its existing domestic and
international strategic sales offices. In total, the Company’s direct sales offices employ approximately 450 full-time employees who are responsible for the sales, marketing initiatives and administrative activities designed to support the
Company’s overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.

During 2009, the Company also maintained its significant
channel partner network, including its reseller network. The reseller network complements the larger ANSYS channel partners by establishing a broader user base for the Company’s products and services. The resellers are required to have
appropriately trained marketing, sales and technical personnel.

The Company’s products are utilized by organizations
ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world’s largest industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenue in 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV,
Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS

The Company has established and continues to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, and marketing relationships with hardware vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD
and PLM providers. The Company believes that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into the Company’s products, provide access to new customers, expand the Company’s sales channels, develop
specialized product applications and provide direct integration with leading CAD, EDA, product data management and PLM systems.

The Company has technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, Dassault Systèmes, Parametric Technology Corporation, and Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc., to provide direct links
between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and ANSYS products. In addition, the Company has an agreement with Dassault







Systèmes under which ANSYS fluid flow modeling technology is embedded in the CATIA V5 product lifecycle management environment. This fully integrated product, FLUENT for CATIA V5, enables
model building, computation, post-processing and data management within the analysis infrastructure of CATIA V5.

Similarly,
the Company maintains marketing and software development relationships with leading software companies in the EDA market, including Cadence, Synopsys and Mentor Graphics. These relationships support transfer of data between electronics design and
layout packages and the ANSYS and Ansoft electronics simulation portfolio.

The Company has established relationships with
leading suppliers of computer hardware, including Intel, AMD, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems, IBM, Dell, Cray, Panasas, QLogic, Mellanox and other leading regional resellers and system integrators. These relationships provide the
Company with joint marketing opportunities, such as advertising, public relations, editorial coverage and customer events. In addition, these alliances provide the Company with early access and technical collaboration on new processors and related
computing technologies, ensuring that the Company’s software products are certified to run effectively on the most current hardware platforms. Key 2009 milestones include support for updated multicore processors from Intel and AMD, use of Intel
software development tools for code profiling and optimization, and updated support of the Microsoft HPC Server 2008 operating system.

The Company’s Enhanced Solution Partner Program actively encourages specialized developers of software solutions to use the Company’s technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced
functionality related to their use of the Company’s software. With approximately 110 active enhanced solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including electronics, mechanical simulation, fluid simulation, acoustics,
turbomachinery and CAD, this partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of the Company’s technology offering. During 2009, for example, the Company focused on partner solutions for composite modeling, including integration of technology
from EVEN AG in the Workbench environment.

The Company has a software license agreement with Livermore Software Technology
Corporation (“LSTC”) whereby LSTC has provided LS-DYNA software for explicit dynamics solutions used in applications such as crash test simulations in automotive and other industries. Under this arrangement, LSTC assists in the integration
of the LS-DYNA software with the Company’s pre- and post-processing capabilities and provides updates and problem resolution in return for royalty from sales of the ANSYS/LS-DYNA combined product.

COMPETITION

The Company
believes that the principal factors affecting sales of its software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range
of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.

The Company continues to experience intense competition across all markets for its products and services. Some of the Company’s current
and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company, and some have well established relationships with current and potential customers of the Company. The Company’s current and
possible future competitors also include firms that have or may in the future elect to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs,
and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES

The Company regards its software as proprietary and relies on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license
agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect its proprietary rights in its products. The Company distributes its software products under







software license agreements that grant customers nonexclusive licenses for the use of the Company’s products, which are typically nontransferable. License agreements for the Company’s
products are directly between the Company and end users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product. Software security measures are also
employed to prevent unauthorized use of the Company’s software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized reproduction. Customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the
right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and updates, or may lease the product on a fixed term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades.

The Company licenses its software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard copy license terms and forms. For certain software
products, the Company primarily relies on “click-wrapped” licenses. The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.

The Company also seeks to protect the source code of its software as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. The Company has
obtained federal trademark registration protection for ANSYS, ANSYS Workbench, AUTODYN, CFX, FLUENT, Maxwell, and other marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries. Additionally, the Company was awarded a patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office for its Web-based reporting technology.

Employees of the Company have signed agreements under which they have agreed
not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information and, where legally permitted, that restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with the Company anywhere in the world while employed by the Company (and, in
some cases, for specified periods thereafter), and that any products or technology created by them during their term of employment are the property of the Company. In addition, the Company requires all channel partners to enter into agreements not
to disclose the Company’s trade secrets and other proprietary information.

Despite these precautions, there can be no
assurance that misappropriation of the Company’s technology and proprietary information will not occur. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for the Company’s
products in certain countries, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with the Company will be enforceable.

The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Therefore, the Company believes that factors such as the
technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to
the various legal protections of its technology that may be available.

The Company does not believe that any of its products
infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by the Company or its licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. The Company
expects that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit,
could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to
the Company.

SEASONAL VARIATIONS

The Company’s business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly reductions in software sales resulting from the slowdown during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the
seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of the Company’s global customers. The Company’s revenue and margins are typically highest in the fourth quarter.







BACKLOG

The Company generally ships its products within 30 days after acceptance of an order and execution of a software license agreement. Accordingly, the Company does not believe that its backlog at any
particular point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 1,600 full-time employees. At that date, there were also
contract personnel and co-op students providing ongoing development services and technical support. The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company’s website iswww.ansys.com.
The Company makes available on its website, free of charge, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, reports filed pursuant to Section 16 and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after such materials are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company has posted the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate
Governance Committee, as well as the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Standard Business Practices and Corporate Governance Guidelines on its website. Information posted on the Company’s website is not incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



