RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's liquidity depends on SCE's ability to pay dividends and tax allocation payments to Edison International and monetization of tax benefits retained by EME.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and its ability to make upstream distributions. Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. In addition, CPUC holding company rules require that SCE's dividend policy be established by SCE's Board of Directors on the same basis as if SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of both Edison International and SCE. SCE may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation agreements. The EME Settlement Agreement requires Edison International to make fixed payments to a newly formed trust under the control of EME's creditors (the "Reorganization Trust"). Edison International plans to use its credit facilities or incur new debt to fund a portion of the Reorganization Trust payments due to delays in monetizing tax benefits retained by EME as a result of the recent extension of bonus depreciation. Realization of such tax benefits may be furthered delayed or permanently reduced by future tax legislation that extends bonus depreciation or reduces the current corporate tax rate. Access to capital markets may be impacted by economic conditions that have an adverse effect on Edison International's liquidity. See "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company" below for further discussion.

Edison International's activities are concentrated in one industry and in one region.

Edison International does not have diversified sources of revenue or regulatory oversight. SCE comprises substantially all of Edison International's business, and Edison International's business is expected to remain concentrated in the electricity industry. Furthermore, Edison International's current business is concentrated almost entirely in southern California. As a result, Edison International's future performance may be affected by events and economic performance concentrated in southern California or by regional regulation or legislation.

RISKS RELATING TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulatory Risks

SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. Among other things, the CPUC regulates SCE's retail rates and capital structure, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale rates. The NRC regulates the decommissioning of San Onofre. The construction, planning, and siting of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to regulation by the CPUC.

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be materially affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by concerted community opposition and such delay or defeat could have a material effect on SCE's business.

The CPUC is considering rulemaking to govern communications between the CPUC officials, staff and the regulated utilities following investigations of violations by PG&E of the

ex parte

rules on communications with CPUC officials and staff. Changes to the rules and processes around

ex parte

communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. In addition, the CPUC or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities, including SCE, and CPUC officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration.

In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs. In addition, regulations adopted via the public initiative or legislative process may apply to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs.


SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs and to earn a reasonable rate of return on capital investments in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's ability to recover its costs and earn a reasonable rate of return can be affected by many factors, including the time lag between when costs are incurred and when those costs are recovered in customers’ rates and differences between the forecast or authorized costs embedded in rates (which are set on a prospective basis) and the amount of actual costs incurred. The CPUC or the FERC may not allow SCE to recover costs on the basis that such costs were not reasonably or prudently incurred or for other reasons. Further, SCE may be required to incur expenses before the CPUC approves the recovery of such costs. For example, SCE has requested approval from the CPUC to reimburse decommissioning costs related to San Onofre Units 2 and 3 from the nuclear decommissioning trust, which is pending. For more information, see "Management Overview—Permanent Retirement of San Onofre and San Onofre OII Settlement—Decommissioning" in the MD&A. Changes in laws and regulations or changes in the political and regulatory environment also may have an adverse effect on the SCE's ability to timely recover its costs and earn its authorized rate of return. In addition, SCE may be required to incur costs to comply with new state laws or to implement new state policies before SCE is assured of cost recovery.

SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, leveling demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or modify its rate design to recover material amounts of its costs (including an adequate return on capital) in rates in a timely manner, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Management Overview—Regulatory Matters—2015 General Rate Case" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—FERC Formula Rates" in the MD&A.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could materially affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, and through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes in commodity prices. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations, see "Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

Financing Risks

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be materially affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to obtain financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal, interest and preferred stock dividends, are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's inability to obtain additional capital from time to time could have a material effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.

Competitive and Market Risks

The electricity industry is undergoing extensive changes, including increased competition, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments.

The electricity industry is undergoing extensive change, including technological advancements such as energy storage and customer-owned generation that may change the nature of energy generation and delivery. In addition, there has been public discussion regarding the possibility of future changes in the electric utility business model as a result of these developments. In October 2013, the CPUC held an open hearing to receive views from various sources on whether the current California


utility business model should be revised. It is possible that revisions to the traditional utility business model could materially affect SCE's business model and its financial condition and results of operations.

Demand for electricity from utilities has been leveling, while growth in customer-owned generation has increased. At the same time, significant investment is needed to replace aging infrastructure and convert the electric distribution grid to support two-way flows of electricity.

Customer-owned generation itself reduces the amount of electricity purchased from utilities and has the effect of increasing utility rates unless retail rates are designed to share the costs of the distribution grid across all customers that benefit from their use. For example, customers in California that generate their own power do not currently pay most transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges, subject to limitations, which results in increased utility rates for those customers who do not own their generation. Such increases foster the public discussion regarding future changes in the electric utility business model.

In addition, the FERC has adopted changes that have opened transmission development to competition from independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for the construction and operation of transmission facilities. For more information, see "Business—SCE—Competition."

Operating Risks

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In order to mitigate this risk, SCE is engaged in a significant and ongoing infrastructure investment program. This substantial investment program elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs or in recovering costs that are above original estimates, system limitations and degradation, and interruptions in necessary supplies.

SCE's operations may be affected if negotiations for new collective bargaining agreements are unsuccessful or relations with unionized employees deteriorate.

Approximately 30% of SCE's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers ("IBEW"). The IBEW collective bargaining agreements expired on December 31, 2014, but SCE and IBEW have agreed to allow the expired agreements to remain in force during ongoing negotiations for new agreements, subject to either party's right to terminate the agreements on 120 days written notice. If the current agreements are terminated, the negotiations are unsuccessful, or labor relations otherwise deteriorate, represented employees could strike, participate in work stoppages, slowdowns or other forms of labor disruption. These activities could delay projects, negatively impact capital expenditures and employee safety, and otherwise have an adverse effect on SCE's operations.

SCE's systems and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical and cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators, such as the NERC, and U.S. Government Departments, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have noted that threat sources continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures and that such attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. As SCE moves from an analog to a digital electric grid, new cyber security risks may be presented. An example of such new risks is the installation of "smart" meters in SCE's service territory. This technology may represent a new route for attacks on SCE's information systems. SCE's operations require the continuous availability of critical information technology systems and network infrastructure. SCE's systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer attacks of malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and other illicit activities, but to date, SCE has not experienced a material cyber security breach. Although SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield such systems and infrastructure from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality. If SCE's information technology systems security measures were to be breached or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions such as delivery of electricity to customers and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to SCE or to its customers, loss of confidence in SCE's security


measures, customer dissatisfaction, and significant litigation exposure, all of which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations and materially damage the business reputation of Edison International and SCE.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters, including storms, wildfires and earthquakes, can disrupt the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver power to SCE's customers. These events can lead to lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs. They can also result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if SCE encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers. These occurrences could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the inability to restore power to SCE's customers could also materially damage the business reputation of SCE and Edison International.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with electrical current or equipment, including through downed power lines or if equipment malfunctions. Injuries and property damage caused by such events can subject SCE to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. The CPUC has increased its focus on public safety issues with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Additionally, the CPUC has delegated to its staff the authority to issue citations, which carry a fine of $50,000 per violation per day, to electric utilities subject to its jurisdiction for violations of safety rules found in statutes, regulations, and the General Orders of the CPUC. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant and materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations.

There are inherent risks associated with owning and decommissioning nuclear power generating facilities, including, among other things, potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and the danger of storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials.

The cost of decommissioning Unit 2 and Unit 3 of San Onofre may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise. Inability to gain timely access to the nuclear decommissioning trust funds could negatively affect SCE's cash flows. Interpretations of tax regulations may further delay access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for the purpose of building spent nuclear fuel storage.

The costs of decommissioning Unit 2 and Unit 3 are subject to reasonableness reviews by the CPUC. These costs may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise unless SCE can establish that the costs were reasonably incurred.

SCE expects to fund decommissioning costs with assets that are currently held in nuclear decommissioning trusts. SCE is required to request access to these trust funds from the CPUC and requests submitted in 2014 are pending. SCE is also required to proceed with the decommissioning of Units 2 and 3 and beginning in 2015, SCE must fund decommissioning costs until the CPUC approves SCE's request to access the trust. Based on the current estimate, SCE forecasts 2015 decommissioning costs of approximately $200 million. Decommissioning activities could be delayed and SCE's cash flows could be negatively impacted if timely access to the nuclear decommissioning trust funds is not obtained.

Depending on how the IRS or the Department of Treasury ultimately interpret IRS regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, SCE may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trust to pay for independent spent fuel storage installations ("ISFSI") where SCE is seeking, or plans to seek, recovery of the ISFSI costs in litigation against the DOE. Until the DOE litigation is resolved, SCE expects to pay for such ISFSI costs unless and until the IRS or the Department of Treasury issue guidance directed to either SCE or to all taxpayers, which provides that such ISFSI costs can be funded by qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts. If SCE is unable to obtain timely reimbursement of such costs, it may delay decommissioning activities and negatively impact SCE's cash flows. For more information on the spent fuel litigation, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Spent Nuclear Fuel."

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.

Despite the fact that San Onofre is being decommissioned, the presence of spent nuclear fuel still poses a potential risk of a nuclear incident. Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection, which is currently approximately $13.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear


incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $13.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of one or more nuclear incident claims that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $13.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. For more information on nuclear insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient.

Edison International has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International. For more information on wildfire insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Wildfire Insurance."

Environmental Risks

SCE is subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and materially affect SCE.

SCE is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE devotes significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation projects, and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could materially affect operations of power plants, which could in turn impact electricity markets and SCE's purchased power costs. SCE may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The operation of SCE facilities under such laws and regulations may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of energy that must be procured from renewable resources. See "Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries" for further discussion of environmental regulations under which SCE operates.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information responding to this section is included in the MD&A under the heading "Market Risk Exposures."