Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's liquidity and ability to pay dividends depends on SCE's ability to pay dividends and tax allocation payments to Edison International, monetization of tax benefits retained by EME, ability to borrow funds, and access to capital markets.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations, make investments, and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and its ability to make upstream distributions. Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends. In addition, CPUC holding company rules require that SCE's dividend policy be established by SCE's Board of Directors on the same basis as if SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's electricity service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of both Edison International and SCE. Further, SCE and Edison International cannot pay dividends if California law requirements for the declaration of dividends are not met. For information on the California law requirements on the declaration of dividends, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—SCE Dividends." SCE may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation agreements. See "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company" below for further discussion.

Edison International's business activities are concentrated in one industry and in one region.

Edison International business activities are concentrated in the electricity industry. Its principal subsidiary, SCE, serves customers only in southern and central California. Although Edison International, through Edison Energy Group, is developing competitive businesses that are diversified geographically, these businesses are not material. As a result, Edison


International's future performance may be affected by events and economic factors unique to California or by regional regulation or legislation.

Edison International is developing businesses held by Edison Energy Group that may not be successful.

Edison International, through Edison Energy Group, is pursuing an energy services and managed portfolio solutions business focused on large C&I customers by providing unbiased expertise to help define energy requirements and implement solutions to better manage energy costs and risks. There is no assurance that these activities will lead to growth or be profitable.

Edison International is also exploring the sale of SoCore Energy, its solar business. There is no assurance that this will lead to a sale of the business, that a loss on sale will not result or that if a sale is not completed, that future solar activities will be profitable.

RISKS RELATING TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulatory Risks

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs and to earn a reasonable rate of return on capital investments in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover its costs from its customers, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's ability to recover its costs and earn a reasonable rate of return can be affected by many factors, including the time lag between when costs are incurred and when those costs are recovered in customers' rates and differences between the forecast or authorized costs embedded in rates (which are set on a prospective basis) and the amount of actual costs incurred. The CPUC or the FERC may not allow SCE to recover costs on the basis that such costs were not reasonably or prudently incurred or for other reasons. Further, SCE may be required to incur expenses before the relevant regulatory agency approves the recovery of such costs. For example, to the extent SCE is required to pay uninsured wildfire-related damages, SCE may be forced to do so before it is clear that such costs will be recoverable from customers. In addition, while SCE supports California’s environmental goals, it may be prevented from fully executing on its strategy to support such goals by regulatory delay or lack of approval of cost-recovery for the costs of such strategic actions from the relevant regulatory agencies. In addition, SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power and energy storage, increasing environmental regulations, leveling demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or modify its rate design to recover its costs (including an adequate return on capital) in rates in a timely manner, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Management Overview—2018 General Rate Case" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—FERC Formula Rate" in the MD&A.

SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. Among other things, the CPUC regulates SCE's retail rates and capital structure, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale rates. The NRC regulates the decommissioning of San Onofre in addition to the local and state agencies that require permits. The construction, planning, and siting of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to regulation by the CPUC and other local, state and federal agencies.

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE may be prevented from executing its strategy and its business could be materially affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by opponents and such delay or defeat could have a material effect on SCE's business.

Rules, restrictions and processes around

ex parte

communications could result in delayed decisions, increased investigations, enforcement actions and penalties. In addition, the CPUC or other parties may initiate investigations of past communications between public utilities, including SCE, and CPUC officials and staff that could result in reopening completed proceedings for reconsideration.

In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in


significant additional costs. In addition, regulations adopted via the public initiative or legislative process may apply to SCE, or its facilities or operations, in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could materially affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants and through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover, through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes in commodity prices. Additionally, significant and prolonged gas use restrictions may adversely impact the reliability of the electric grid if critical generation resources are limited in their operations. For further information, see "Business—SCE—Purchased Power and Fuel Supply." SCE is also subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations, see "Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

Operating Risks

Damage claims against SCE for wildfire-related losses may materially affect SCE’s financial condition and results of operations.

Prolonged drought conditions and shifting weather patterns in California resulting from climate change as well as increased tree mortality rates have increased the duration of the wildfire season and the risk of severe wildfire events. Severe wildfires and increased urban development in high fire risk areas in California have given rise to large damage claims against California utilities for fire-related losses alleged to be the result of utility practices and/or the failure of electric and other utility equipment. Certain California courts have previously found utilities to be strictly liable for property damage, regardless of fault, by applying the theory of inverse condemnation when a utility's facilities were determined to be a substantial cause of a wildfire that caused the property damage. The rationale stated by these courts for applying this theory to investor-owned utilities is that property losses resulting from a public improvement, such as the distribution of electricity, can be spread across the larger community that benefited from such improvement. However, in December 2017, the CPUC issued a decision denying the investor-owned utility's request to include in its rates uninsured wildfire-related costs arising from several 2007 fires, finding that the investor-owned utility did not prudently manage and operate its facilities prior to or at the outset of the 2007 wildfires. An inability to recover uninsured wildfire-related costs could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if SCE is found liable for damages related to the December 2017 Wildfires, and SCE is unable to, or believes that it will be unable to, recover those damages, SCE may not have sufficient cash or equity to pay dividends to Edison International or may be prohibited from declaring such dividends because it does not meet California law requirements for the declaration of dividends. For information on the California law requirements on the declaration of dividends, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—SCE Dividends" in the MD&A. See "Management Overview—Southern California Wildfires" in the MD&A.

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient.

Edison International has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. Edison International, SCE or its contractors may experience coverage reductions and/or increased wildfire insurance costs in future years. No assurance can be given that losses will not exceed the limits of SCE's or its contractors' insurance coverage. SCE may not be able to recover uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance in customer rates. Losses which are not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. For more information on wildfire insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Southern California Wildfires."

There are inherent risks associated with owning and decommissioning nuclear power generating facilities and obtaining cost reimbursement, including, among other things, costs exceeding estimates, execution risks, potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and the hazards of storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials. Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.


SCE expects to fund decommissioning costs with assets that are currently held in nuclear decommissioning trusts. SCE believes that the nuclear decommissioning trusts' assets will be sufficient to pay the estimated costs of decommissioning without further contributions but the costs ultimately incurred could exceed the current estimates. The costs of decommissioning San Onofre are subject to reasonableness reviews by the CPUC. These costs may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise unless SCE can establish that the costs were reasonably incurred. In addition, SCE faces inherent execution risks including such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition, permitting delays, and governmental approvals.

Despite the fact that San Onofre is being decommissioned, the presence of spent nuclear fuel still poses a potential risk of a nuclear incident. Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection, which is currently approximately

$13.4 billion

. SCE and other owners of San Onofre and Palo Verde have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of

$450 million

per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed

$450 million

, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $13.0 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of

$13.4 billion

. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of one or more nuclear incident claims that exceeded

$450 million

. If this public liability limit of

$13.4 billion

is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. For more information on nuclear insurance risk, see "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies—Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

Climate change exacerbated weather-related incidents and other natural disasters could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters, including storms, wildfires, mudslides and earthquakes, can disrupt the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver power to SCE's customers. Climate change has caused, and exacerbated, extreme weather events and wildfires in southern California. These events can lead to lost revenue and increased expense, including higher maintenance and repair costs, which SCE may not be able to recover from its customers. They can also result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if SCE encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers on a timely basis or if fire-related losses are found to be the result of utility practices and/or the failure of electric and other utility equipment. These occurrences could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the inability to restore power to SCE's customers could also materially damage the business reputation of SCE and Edison International.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with electrical current or equipment, including through downed power lines or if equipment malfunctions. Injuries and property damage caused by such events can subject SCE to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. No assurance can be given that future losses will not exceed the limits of SCE's or its contractors' insurance coverage. The CPUC has increased its focus on public safety with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Additionally, the CPUC has delegated to its staff the authority to issue citations to electric utilities, which can impose fines of up to $50,000 per violation per day, pursuant to the CPUC's jurisdiction for violations of safety rules found in statutes, regulations, and the CPUC's General Orders. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant and materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations.

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In order to mitigate this risk, SCE is engaged in a significant and ongoing infrastructure investment program. This substantial investment program elevates operational risks and the need for superior execution in SCE's activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs or in recovering costs that are above original estimates, system limitations and degradation, and interruptions in necessary supplies.


Financing Risks

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be materially affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to obtain financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal, interest and preferred stock dividends, are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. In addition, the actions of other California investor-owned utilities and the CPUC can affect market conditions and therefore, SCE's ability to obtain financing. SCE's inability to obtain additional capital from time to time could have a material effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.

Competitive and Market Risks

SCE's inability to effectively and timely respond to the changes that the electricity industry is undergoing, as a result of increased competition, technological advances, and changes to the regulatory environment, could materially impact SCE’s business model, financial condition and results of operations.

California utilities are experiencing increasing deployment by customers and third parties of DERs, such as solar generation, energy storage, energy efficiency and demand response technologies. California’s environmental policy objectives are accelerating the pace and scope of industry change. This change will require modernization of the electric distribution grid to, among other things, accommodate two-way flows of electricity and increase the grid's capacity to interconnect DERs. In addition, enabling California’s clean energy economy goals will require sustained investments in grid modernization, renewable integration projects, energy efficiency programs, energy storage options and electric vehicle infrastructures. To this end, the CPUC is conducting proceedings to: evaluate changes to the planning and operation of the electric distribution grid in order to prepare for higher penetration of DERs; consider future grid modernization and grid reinforcement investments; evaluate if traditional grid investments can be deferred by DERs, and if feasible, what, if any, compensation to utilities would be appropriate; and clarify the role of the electric distribution grid operator. The outcome of the CPUC's proceedings may impact SCE's business model, its ability to execute on its strategy, and ultimately its financial condition and results of operations. For more information, see "Management Overview—Capital Program—Distribution Grid Development" in the MD&A.

Customer-owned generation and CCAs each reduce the amount of electricity that customers purchase from utilities and have the effect of increasing utility rates unless customer rates are designed to allocate the costs of the distribution grid across all customers that benefit from its use. For example, customers in California who generate their own power do not currently pay all transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges, subject to limitations, which result in increased utility rates for those customers who do not own their generation. If regulations aren't changed such that customers pay their share of transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges or the demand for electricity reduces so significantly that SCE is no longer effectively able to recover such charges from its customers, SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially impacted.

In addition, the FERC has opened transmission development to competition from independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for the construction and operation of transmission facilities. For more information, see "Business—SCE—Competition."

Cybersecurity and Physical Security Risks

SCE's systems and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical and cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators, such as the NERC, and U.S. Government Departments, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have noted that threat sources continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures and that such attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. As SCE moves from an analog to a digital electric grid, new cyber security risks arise. An example of such new risks is the installation of "smart" meters in SCE's service territory. This technology may represent a new route for attacks on SCE's information systems. Additional risks may also arise as a result of proposed grid modernization efforts. SCE's operations require the continuous availability of critical information technology systems and network infrastructure. SCE's systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer attacks of malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, and other illicit activities, but to date, SCE has not experienced a material cybersecurity


breach. Although SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield such systems and infrastructure from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality. If SCE's information technology and operational technology systems' security measures were to be breached or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions such as delivery of electricity to customers and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to SCE or to its customers, loss of confidence in SCE's security measures, customer dissatisfaction, and significant litigation exposure, all of which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations and materially damage the business reputation of Edison International and SCE.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Information responding to this section is included in the MD&A under the heading "Market Risk Exposures."