10-K


a07-5140_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED STATES SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission
File No. 333-92383

CHARLES RIVER
LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant
as Specified in Its Charter)

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code):

(978) 658-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Name of each exchange

Title of each class

on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a
large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer.
See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer

x

Accelerated
Filer

o

Non-accelerated
Filer

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a
shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

x

On July 1, 2006, the aggregate market value of the
Registrant’s voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was
approximately $2,481,388,083.

As of February 15, 2007, there were outstanding
66,932,738 shares of the Registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the
Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 8, 2007, which will be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after
December 30, 2006, are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of the portions
of the 2007 Proxy Statement expressly incorporated into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K by reference, such document shall not be deemed filed as
part of this Form 10-K.

CHARLES RIVER
LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

TABLE
OF CONTENTS

Item

Page

PART I


Business


1A

Risk
  Factors


1B

Unresolved Staff Comments



Properties



Legal
  Proceedings



Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the
  Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of Regulation
  S-K


PART II


Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
  Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Selected Consolidated Financial Data



Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
  Condition and Results of Operations


7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
  Risk



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
  Accounting and Financial Disclosure


9A

Controls and Procedures


9B

Other
  Information


PART III


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Executive Compensation



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
  Management and Related Stockholders Matters



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions



Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV


Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the
future results of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. that are
based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the
industries in which Charles River operates and the beliefs and assumptions of
our management. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “target,” “goal,” “project,”
“intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “likely,” “may,” “designed,”
“would,” “future,” “can,” “could” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to
historical matters are intended to identify such forward-looking
statements. These statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of
Charles River and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions
that are difficult to predict. For example, we may use forward-looking
statements when addressing topics such as: future demand for drug discovery and
development products and services, including the outsourcing of these services;
future actions by our management; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our
business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating
revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market
and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in
the composition or level of our revenues; our cost structure; the impact of
acquisitions and dispositions; the timing of the opening of new and expanded
facilities; our expectations with respect to sales growth, efficiency
improvements and operating synergies; changes in our expectations regarding
future stock option, restricted stock and other equity grants to employees and
directors; changes in our expectations regarding our stock repurchases; and our
cash flow and liquidity. You should not rely on forward-looking
statements because they are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties
and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may
differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or in the case of
statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated
by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K
under the section entitled “Risks Related to Our Business and Industry,” the
section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” and in our press releases and other financial filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks
may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report  not to occur.

Corporate History

Charles River has been operating since 1947 and during
that time, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles
River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000,
we completed the initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “CRL “and is included in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap
400, 1000 and Composite 1500 Indices, the Dow Jones US Biotech Index, and the
NYSE Healthcare Sector Index. We are headquartered in Wilmington,
Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street,
Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone number at that location is
(978) 658-6000. Our Internet site is

www.criver.com

.
Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in
this Form 10-K to “Charles River,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to
Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.


This Form 10-K,
as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our
Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file
with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an Internet site (

http://www.sec.gov

)
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that
advance the drug discovery and development process, including research models
and associated services, and outsourced preclinical services (including  Phase I clinical services). We provide the
animal research models required in research and development for new drugs,
devices and therapies and have been in this business for 60 years. We have
built upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science
(research model technologies) to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of
products and services. Our wide array of tools and services enables our
customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness
in drug discovery and development. Our customer base includes global
pharmaceutical companies, a wide range of biotechnology companies, as well as
government agencies, leading hospitals and academic institutions throughout the
world. We currently operate over 80 facilities, including our production and
warehousing facilities, in 15 countries worldwide. Our products and services,
supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable
our customers to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences
research, a large and growing market. In 2006, our net sales from continuing
operations were $1.06 billion and our operating income from continuing
operations was $188.2 million.

In 2004, we
acquired Inveresk Research Group, Inc, a leading provider of drug
development services to companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries. That acquisition broadened our portfolio of high-end services
including general toxicology, specialty toxicology and Phase I clinical services
(in addition to the later-stage clinical services business of Inveresk). In
addition, acquiring Inveresk:

·

significantly
expanded our overall corporate size;

·

significantly
increased the breadth of the products and services that we offer; and

·

expanded
and strengthened our global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical
research and development services.

Acquiring Inveresk was a critical step in our
continuing mission to support our key pharmaceutical and biotechnology
customers, who are increasingly seeking full service, global partners to whom
they can outsource more of their preclinical research and development efforts.
Consistent with our philosophy to focus on our core competencies, in August 2006
we divested the Phase II-IV Clinical Services business that had previously been
part of Inveresk, although we retained the Phase I Clinical Services business,
which we believe serves as an integral part of our preclinical development
processes and service offerings. To enhance our Phase I service offerings, we
acquired a U.S. Phase I clinical services company, Northwest Kinetics, Inc.
in October 2006.

As part of the divestiture of the Phase II-IV Clinical
Service business in August 2006, we changed our business reporting
segments to better reflect our results of operations and facilitate
understanding of our business. We currently have two reporting segments:
Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS) which
includes Phase I clinical services.

Research
Models and Services (RMS).

Charles
River has  been supplying research models
to the drug development industry since 1947. With approximately 150 different
strains we continue to maintain


our position as the global
leader in the production and sale of research models, principally genetically
and virally defined purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of
related services that are designed to assist our customers in supporting the
use of research models in drug development. With multiple facilities located on
three continents (North America, Europe and Asia (Japan)), we maintain
production centers, including a total of approximately 160 barrier rooms or
isolator facilities strategically located near our customers. In addition, we
are in process of expanding our existing U.S. West Coast capacity with
additional construction which is expected to partially open in the first half
of 2007. In 2006, RMS accounted for 49% of our total net sales and
approximately 42% of our employees, including approximately 60 science professionals
with advanced degrees

Our RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research
Models, (2) Research Model Services and (3) other related businesses.

Research Models.

A
significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production
and sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats, mice and other
rodents for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous
customers around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad
range of biotechnology companies, many government agencies, and leading
hospitals and academic institutions. Our research models include both standard
strains and disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which
are increasingly in demand as early-stage research tools. The United
States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies
typically require the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on
research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research
models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our rodent species have been and continue to be some
of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result
of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality in the breeding process.
Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments which
are designed to ensure that the animals are free of specific viral and bacterial
agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort
results. With our barrier room production capabilities, we are able to deliver
consistently high-quality research models worldwide.

Our small research
models include:

·

outbred
animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

·

inbred
animals, which are genetically identical;

·

hybrid
animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

·

spontaneous
mutant animals, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as
immune deficiency); and

·

other
genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or
more disabled genes and transgenic animals, which contain genetic material
transferred from a different species.

Since 2001, we have been offering new and proprietary,
disease-specific rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such
as diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are presently
focusing our disease model program on four areas of research: cardiovascular,
metabolic, renal and oncology, which, in addition to providing overlapping
disease modalities that support multiple uses of certain models, also will
permit us to concentrate on focused sales and marketing efforts.

We believe that over the next several years, many new
research models will be developed and used in biomedical research, such as
transgenic models with modified genetic material, knock-out models with one or
more disabled genes, and transgenic models that incorporate or exclude a
particular gene.  These more highly
defined and characterized models will allow researchers to further focus their
investigations into


disease conditions and
potential new therapies or interventions. We intend to build upon our position
as a leader in this field to expand our presence in this market for higher-value
research models.

In addition to our small research models, we also are
a global leader in providing purpose-bred, high quality, specific pathogen-free
(SPF) or disease free, large research models to the biomedical research
community, principally for use in their drug development and testing studies.

Research Model
Services.

RMS
also offers a variety of services, described below, designed to assist our
customers in screening drug candidates faster, including those which are
related to genetically defined research models for in-house research, as well
as those services designed to implement efficacy screening protocols to improve
the customer’s drug evaluation process. These services address the growing need
among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core
aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services capitalize on the
technologies and relationships developed through our research model business.
We currently offer four major categories of research models services—transgenic
services, laboratory services, consulting and staffing services, and
preconditioning services.

Transgenic
Services.

In
this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining,
improving, breeding and testing research models purchased or created by them
for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a transgenic model
can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first step in the discovery
process. Productive utilization of genetically engineered research models
requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide transgenic
breeding expertise, model characterization (including genotyping and
phenotyping) and colony development, quarantine, embryo cryopreservation,
embryo transfer and health and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to
over  200 laboratories around the world
from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities,
and maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally occurring or
experimentally manipulated research models for our customers.

Laboratory
Services.

We assist our customers in
monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the research models used in
their research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building
upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of
our research model business. Depending upon a customer’s needs, we may serve as
its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its
internal laboratory capabilities. We believe that the continued growth in model
development and characterization and utilization of specific disease models and
genetically engineered models will drive our future growth as the reference
laboratory of choice for health and genetic testing of laboratory animals.

Preconditioning
Services.

Augmenting our traditional model
production and transgenic services described above, we believe there are
emerging opportunities to provide customers with preconditioning services,
which center upon speeding the development process by providing study-ready
research models. As a result of our veterinary medicine expertise, we are well
positioned to provide preconditioning services, such as those required for
development of drugs for obesity or hypertension. Additionally, models of
subclinical disease can be created through surgical approaches, thereby
providing a model for study that otherwise may not be commercially available.
In furtherance of our preconditioning services, we offer related surgical
services in the United States, Europe and Asia. This value-added service
offering enhances the basic research model by preparing models to be used in
studies immediately upon arrival at the customer’s facility, rather than requiring
time and effort on the part of the customer to prepare the models.

Consulting
and Staffing Services.

Building upon our core capability as the leading
provider of high-quality research models, we manage animal care operations
(including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) on behalf
of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial customers.
Demand for our services results from the growing trend by these large
institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not
critical to the core scientific innovation process, or for which they do not
maintain the necessary resources in-house. In addition, we believe that our
expertise in animal


care and facility
operations enhances the productivity and quality of our customers’ animal care
and use programs.

Other Related
Research Model Businesses.

We
also offer two other categories of products and services within RMS—vaccine
support and

in vitro

technology
products.

Vaccine
Support.

We
are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF,
chickens and fertile chicken eggs. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal
health companies as self-contained “bioreactors” for the manufacture of live
viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in poultry, as well
as human vaccine, applications. The production of SPF eggs is done under
biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We
have a worldwide presence that includes several SPF egg production facilities
in the United States, a joint venture in Mexico and production capabilities in
Hungary. We also operate a specialized avian laboratory in the United States,
which provides in-house testing and support services to our customers and
produces poultry diagnostics.

In
Vitro Technology.

Our

in vitro

business provides
non-animal, or

in vitro,

methods
for lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs. We are
committed to being the leader in providing our customers with

in vitro

alternatives as these methods
become scientifically validated and commercially feasible, and toward that goal
we work with and support the European Center for Validation of Alternative
Methods in these efforts. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the
blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL
test is the first and only major FDA-validated

in
vitro

alternative to an animal model test for endotoxin detection in
pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing. The process of extracting
blood is generally not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to
their natural ocean environment. Our

in
vitro

technology business produces and distributes endotoxin testing
kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services to
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We are a market leader in
endotoxin testing, which is used for FDA-required quality control testing of
injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by
which they are manufactured.

We have developed the next
generation of the endotoxin testing platform, known as the Endosafe Portable
Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS). The PTS is a portable endotoxin testing
platform which allows endotoxin testing in the field, affording researchers
accurate and timely results. In July 2006, we received FDA approval for
the sale and marketing of the PTS system for FDA-required lot release testing. The
PTS can also be used for non-regulated applications, ranging from drug research
and development to environmental monitoring. As an example, a modified version
of the PTS was launched into space in December 2006 aboard the space
shuttle Discovery and reached the International Space Station as part of NASA’s
ongoing efforts to conduct biological research in space. We are also
investigating expanding the use of the PTS system for endotoxin testing into
other markets such as nuclear pharmacies, cell transplant, dialysis clinics,
testing for sterile water, other contaminants such as pesticides, and clinical
diagnostics.

Preclinical
Services (PCS)

Our PCS customers are principally engaged in the

discovery

and

development

of
new drugs, devices and therapies.

Discovery

represents the earliest
stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification,
screening and selection of a lead compound for future drug development.
Discovery activities typically last anywhere from 4-6 years in
conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.

Development

activities, which
follow, are directed at demonstrating the safety, tolerability and clinical
efficacy of the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the
development process, a drug candidate is tested

in vitro

(typically on a cellular or subcellular level in a
test tube or multi-well petri plate) and

in
vivo

(in research models) to support planned or on-going human
trials. We view


early-stage clinical Phase I studies as an essential,
strategic component of our preclinical service offerings.

The development services portion of our PCS segment enables
our customers to outsource their critical regulatory required toxicology and
drug disposition activities to us. The demand for these services is driven by
preclinical development programs for the smaller biotechnology companies, which
traditionally have been outsourced, and key safety studies by the larger global
pharmaceutical companies. Because of the necessary investments in personnel,
facilities and other capital resources required in order to efficiently conduct
and perform these activities, we believe that participants in these industries
will prefer to focus on their core competencies of innovation, early drug
discovery, and in the case of the larger pharmaceutical companies, targeted
sales and marketing, and thus we believe the demand for our preclinical service
offerings will continue to increase.

We are one of the two largest providers of preclinical
services worldwide and offer particular expertise in the design, execution and
reporting of general and specialty toxicology studies, especially those dealing
with innovative therapies and biologicals. We currently provide preclinical
services at multiple facilities located in the United States, Canada and
Europe. As a result of increasing demand for outsourced preclinical services,
we are conducting significant facilities expansions or our Preclinical Services
facilities—one in Massachusetts which opened recently and one in Nevada at
which we expect to begin phased-in occupancy in mid-Summer 2007, as well as
expansions at our Ohio and Edinburgh PCS facilities. The Massachusetts and
Nevada facilities will eventually replace our legacy operations in those
venues, and when fully built out, will more than double the size of the legacy
operations. Our PCS segment represented 51% of our total net sales in 2006
(including the reclassified Phase I clinical services business) and employed
55% of our employees.

We currently offer the following preclinical services,
in which we include both

in vivo

and

in vitro

studies, supportive laboratory services, and
strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product
development from inception to proof of concept.

Toxicology.

Toxicology is one of our core preclinical
competencies and a competitive strength. Once a lead molecule is selected, the
stage of preclinical development begins where appropriate toxicology studies
are conducted to support initial clinical trials. Our toxicology services
feature:

·

all
the standard protocols for general toxicity testing required for regulatory
submissions;

·

expertise
in specialty routes of administration and modes of administration (e.g.,
infusion, intravitreal administration, and inhalation), which are important not
only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals, but also for safety testing
of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives, agrochemicals,
nutraceuticals and other materials;

·

other
services to fully evaluate the genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute,
subacute, chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity potential to support “first in
man” to “first on the market” strategies;

·

market-leading
expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental
toxicology studies (in support of larger scale, human clinical trials);

·

services
in important specialty areas such as developmental/reproductive, ocular, bone,
juvenile/neonatal, and immuno toxicology as well as photobiology and dermal
testing;

·

work
in all major therapeutic areas;

·

study
design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience in
support of drug development; and


·

a
strong history of aiding our sponsors in reaching their regulatory or internal
milestones for safety testing, including studies addressing stem cell
therapies, DNA vaccines, recombinant proteins, standard small molecules and
medical devices.

Our toxicology facilities operate in compliance with
Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) as required by the FDA as well as other
international regulatory bodies. Our facilities are regularly inspected by U.S.
and other GLP compliance monitoring authorities, as well as our own and our
customers’ Quality Assurance departments.

Pathology Services.

In the drug development process,
the ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic
changes (within tissues and cells) is critical in determining the safety of a
new compound. We employ highly trained pathologists who use state-of-the-art
techniques to identify potential compound-related changes within tissues and
cells, as well as at the molecular level. Pathology support is critical for
regulatory driven safety studies, but also for specialized investigative
studies, discovery support, and stand-alone immunohistochemistry evaluations
for monoclonal antibodies. Key “go/no-go” decisions regarding continued product
development are typically dependent on the characterization and evaluation of
gross and microscopic pathology findings we perform for our clients.

Bioanalysis,
Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.

In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our
customers are required to demonstrate ample drug exposure, stability in the
collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the
presence of metabolites, and with recombinant proteins and peptides, the
presence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated
analytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of
drug classes (including oligonucleotide and inhibitory RNAs). In the event that
the sample analysis for preclinical study support translates to opportunities
to analyze clinical samples for the same drug once human testing begins, we
have opportunities to capture the benefits of bridging preclinical bioanalysis
with later clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists
evaluate the data to provide information on the kinetics (pharmaco-/toxico-) of
the exposure to the drug, as well as complete evaluation of the distribution of
the drug or metabolites by radio-labeled techniques. Our clients require these
studies for the full preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug and
are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.

Discovery Support.

At the earliest stages of lead compound
identification, our scientists are engaged in evaluating the activity of drug
candidates in several important therapeutic and support areas, including:

·

oncology
(through our tumor xenograft models);

·

asthma
(through our specialized disease model colonies);

·

bone
disease (using our state-of-the-art imaging and pathology capabilities);

·

ophthalmology
(using our models of neovascularization);

·

general
cardiovascular and device testing (using our surgical models); and

·

early
drug formulation and bioanalysis support and method development.

We also offer lead optimization strategies including
early pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early
integrative drug selection criteria.


Biopharmaceutical Services.

We provide specialized,
non-clinical quality control testing that is frequently outsourced by both
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These services allow our customers
to determine if their human protein drug candidates, or the processes for
manufacturing those products, are essentially free of residual biological
materials. The bulk of this testing is required by the FDA in order to obtain
new drug approval, to maintain an FDA-licensed manufacturing facility or to release
approved products for use in patients. Our scientific staff consults with
customers in the areas of process development, validation, manufacturing
scale-up and biological testing.

Phase I Trials in Healthy Normal and Special
Populations

The Phase I clinical services business represents a
growth opportunity for us that initially originated through our acquisition of
the Clinical Services business of Inveresk, and which we have grown through our
acquisition of Northwest Kinetics in October 2006. Combined, our
capabilities encompass two premier, internationally recognized Phase I clinics—one
in Europe (Edinburgh, Scotland) and the other in North America (Tacoma,
Washington), with a combined capacity of over 300 beds. We focus our clinical
services business on high-end clinical pharmacology studies in healthy
participants and in therapeutic areas including: cardiovascular, oncology,
ophthalmology, respiratory and infectious diseases. From a strategic
perspective, we believe that our clinical services business is positioned to
benefit from pull-through from our preclinical and laboratory services,
particularly with our biotechnology customers.

We offer a wide range of
Phase I clinical research services designed to move lead pharmaceutical
candidates rapidly from preclinical development through Phase I pharmacokinetic
tolerability and pharmacodynamic assessment to explore human pharmacology. We
can conduct studies across a wide range of therapeutic areas, and have
demonstrated experience in complex dose tolerance, radio-labeled,
pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and bioavailability studies. In addition, we
provide customers with high-end “first-in-man” studies for novel compounds, and
expertise in complex drug-drug interaction studies. Participants at both clinics
are evaluated through an intensive screening process to ensure study
suitability. We employ quality assurance units at these facilities to monitor
the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials and to assure management that these
trials are conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the premier global company
advancing the search for drugs, devices and therapies from discovery through proof
of concept. The products and services which we provide our customers are
essential to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost
universally mandated by law. Our business is primarily driven by the continued
growth of research and development spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, the federal government and academic institutions and of outsourced
services. According to a report by the Biomedical Industry Advisory Group, it
takes 11 to 16 years and costs in the range of $180 million to
$1.65 billion, with an average cost of approximately $900 million, to
bring a new drug to market. As the pressure to develop new drugs increases, so
does the pressure to contain costs, to implement research in multiple countries
simultaneously and to identify, hire and retain a breadth of scientific and
technical experts. In order to facilitate and speed their research, our
pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are making strategic decisions to
increasingly outsource services which can be provided by high-quality service
providers like us. Outsourcing allows our customers to concentrate their
internal resources on early drug discovery, while continuing to advance their
most promising products through the development pipeline. This creates
opportunities for companies such as ours that can help speed the drug discovery
and development process. Our strategy is to capitalize on these opportunities
by continuing to build our portfolio of high end, value-added products
and services through internal development, augmented by strategic “bolt-on”
transactions.


In today’s business environment, we believe there is a
particular advantage in being a large, global, high-quality provider of
services throughout the drug discovery and development process. Many of our
customers, especially large pharmaceutical companies, are attracted to Tier 1
contract research organizations with a full breadth of capabilities, and
establish preferred provider relationships with only a small number. We are
focused on being recognized as a premier preferred provider and maintaining
long-term relationships and strategic partnerships with our customers.
Accordingly, with many of our largest customers, we have entered into global
provider agreements that span both segments of our business.

We intend to continue to broaden the scope of our
products and services primarily through internal development, which will be
augmented, as needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. We believe
our approach to acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to target businesses
that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing
stockholder value. This strategy may include geographic expansion of existing
core services (particularly in Asia if the appropriate opportunities present
themselves), strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new
product or service in a related or adjacent business.

We believe that we are
well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. We
intend to focus our marketing efforts on, among other things, stimulating
demand for further outsourcing to gain additional market share to take
advantage of promising opportunities which are available to us as a result of
continued growth of outsourced services. In 2006 we invested heavily in
expanding our facilities capacity, and we intend to continue the capital
expansion activity in 2007. Similarly, we are investing in our information
technology systems and resources in order to better serve our customers,
harmonize our data, and streamline our processes.

Customers

Our customers continue to consist primarily of all of
the major pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, animal
health, medical device, diagnostic and other life sciences companies, and
leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies. We have
stable, long-term relationships with many of our customers. During 2006, no
single commercial customer accounted for more than 6% of our total net sales.

For information regarding
net sales and long-lived assets attributable to both of our business segments
for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 15 included in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to
operations in the United States, Europe, Asia and other countries for each of
the last three fiscal years, please review Note 15 included in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing
and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through
our direct sales force, the majority of whom work in North America, with the
balance working in Europe and Japan. Our primary promotional activities include
organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers, making
presentations and participating at scientific conferences and trade shows in
North America, Europe and Japan. We supplement these scientifically based
marketing activities with trade advertising, direct mail, newsletters and our
website. The direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors
for our products.

Our internal
marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff while
developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with
customers in the biomedical research industry. We maintain client/customer
service, technical assistance and consulting service departments, which address
both our customers’ routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist
our customers in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and
genetics, biosecurity, preclinical and clinical


study
design, regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which
our expertise is recognized as a valuable customer resource.

Competition

Our strategy is to be a leader in each of the markets
in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality,
reputation, responsiveness, pricing, innovation, timeliness and availability,
supported by our strategically located facilities worldwide.

The competitive landscape for our two business
segments varies. For RMS, our main competitors include three smaller
competitors in North America (two of whom have a global scope), and several
smaller competitors in Europe and in Japan. Of our main U.S. competitors, two
are privately held businesses and the third is a government funded,
not-for-profit institution. We believe that none of our competitors in RMS has
our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and
services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industry relationships.

We believe we are one of
the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net
service revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical services consist of
both publicly held and privately owned companies. The Phase I clinical services
market is highly fragmented, with approximately ten participants, both public
and private, representing the majority of the market and a number of smaller,
limited-service providers also providing capacity. In addition, our PCS
segment (including our Phase I business) competes with in-house
departments of pharmaceutical companies and universities and teaching
hospitals.

Industry Support
and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for and commitment
to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements
in our industry, and continue to show our commitment with special recognition
programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this
critical area of our business. We created our own Humane Care Initiative, which
is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the
initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane
care of laboratory animals. Laboratory animals are an important resource that
further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of
life-saving drugs and procedures. We work hand-in-hand with the scientific
community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress
play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research. As animal
caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public
for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We support a wide variety
of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as
the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to
laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit
institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and
provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal
medicine field.

Employees

As of December 30,
2006, we had approximately 8,000 employees, including approximately 330 science
professionals with advanced degrees including D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s and M.D.s. Our
employees are not unionized in the United States, although employees are
unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local customs for
our industry. Our annual satisfaction surveys indicate that we have an
excellent relationship with our employees.


Backlog

Our backlog for our PCS business segment was
approximately $341 million at December 30, 2006. We do not report
backlog for the RMS segment because turnaround time from order placement to
fulfillment, both for products and services, is rapid. Our preclinical services
(including Phase I clinical services) are performed over varying durations,
from short to extended periods of time, which may be as long as several years.
We maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenue from studies and projects
that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near future,
or are in process and have not been completed. We only recognize a study or
project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a customer’s
intention to proceed. We do not recognize verbal orders. Cancelled studies or
projects are removed from backlog.

We believe our aggregate
backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future
results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration (i.e., some
studies that are included in 2006 backlog may be completed in 2007, while
others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may
change, which may either increase or decrease their value. Third, studies
included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth,
studies may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory
authorities for a number of reasons. Delayed contracts remain in our backlog
until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has
been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all
or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be
filled in the current year.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct
operating segments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to
numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments, as described
below.

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use
of certain species of animals used for research. The United States
Congress has passed legislation which excludes rats, mice and chickens used for
research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States
small animal research model activities and our vaccine support services
operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species,
the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require producers and users of
regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize specific husbandry
practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and environmental
enrichment to assure the welfare of these animals. We comply with licensing and
registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of
Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of regulated species. Our animal
production facilities and preclinical facilities in the U.S. are accredited by
the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International
(AAALAC), a private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the
humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and
assessment programs. Portions of our preclinical business are also generally
regulated by the USDA.

Our import and export of animals in support of several
of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are
subject to a variety of national, regional, and local laws and regulations,
which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of
animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary
certificates, licenses, detailed standard operating procedures and other
documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane treatment
of the animals in our custody at our locations.

Our PCS business conducts nonclinical laboratory
safety studies intended to support the registration or licensing of our clients’
products throughout the world. The conduct of these studies must comply with
national statutory or regulatory requirements for Good Laboratory Practice
(GLP). GLP regulations describe a quality system concerned with the
organizational process and the conditions under which


nonclinical laboratory
studies are planned, performed, monitored, recorded, archived and reported. GLP
compliance is required by such regulatory agencies as the FDA, United States
Environmental Protection Agency, European Agency for the Evaluation of
Medicinal Products, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA)
in the United Kingdom, Health Canada, and the Japanese Ministry of Health and
Welfare. GLP requirements are significantly harmonized throughout the world and
our laboratories are capable of conducting studies in compliance with all
appropriate requirements. To assure our compliance obligations, we have
established quality assurance units (QAU) in each of our nonclinical
laboratories. The QAUs operate independently from those individuals that direct
and conduct studies and monitor each study to assure management that the
facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are
in compliance with GLP. Our laboratory managers use the results of QAU
monitoring as part of a continuous process improvement program to assure our
nonclinical studies meet client and regulatory expectations for quality and
integrity.

Our PCS business also conducts human Phase I clinical
trials and provides services in support of our clients’ registration or licensing
applications. Human clinical trials are conducted in a progressive fashion
beginning with Phase I, and in the case of approved drugs, continued through
Phase IV trials. Phase I studies are the initial human clinical trials and are
conducted with a small number of subjects under highly controlled conditions.
These clinical trials and services are performed in accordance with the
International Conference on Harmonization of Technical Requirements for
Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practice Consolidated
Guidance and in compliance with regulations governing the conduct of clinical
investigations and the protection of human clinical trial subjects. In the
United States, these trials and services must comply with FDA regulations and
in Europe our clinical trials and services must comply with the clinical trials
directive of the European Union. Neither FDA regulations nor the clinical
trials directive requires a quality assurance program; however, each of our
Phase I facilities has an established quality assurance unit that monitors the
conduct and reporting of Phase I trials to assure that these trials are
conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements. Our
manufacturing business produces endotoxin test kits and reagents and vaccine
support products. Additionally, the analytical divisions of several of our
nonclinical laboratories conduct stability and potency testing in support of
our clients’ manufacturing programs. These activities are subject to regulation
by the FDA and MHRA under their respective Good Manufacturing Practice
regulations or the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation (manufacturing of medical
devices). We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and
are subject to inspection on a routine basis for compliance with these
regulations. These regulations require that we manufacture our products in a
prescribed manner with respect to, and maintain records of, our manufacturing,
testing and control activities.

All of our sites are also subject to licensing and
regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and
air transportation of laboratory specimens, the handling, storage and disposal
of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the
safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently
in compliance in all material respects with such national, regional and local
laws, failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct
business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

To ensure that all
business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements
and satisfy our client expectations for quality, we have established a
corporate regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our
corporate quality system and all quality assurance functions within the
Company. This organization reports to our Corporate Vice President for
Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.


Corporate Governance

We are committed to
operating our business with integrity and accountability. We strive to meet or
exceed all of the corporate governance standards established by the New York
Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal government
as implemented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Seven of the eight members of
our Board of Directors are independent and have no significant financial,
business or personal ties to the Company or management and all of our Board
committees are composed of independent directors. The Board adheres to
Corporate Governance Guidelines and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which
has been communicated to employees and posted on our website. We have always
been diligent in complying with established accounting principles and are
committed to providing financial information that is transparent, timely and
accurate. We have implemented a Related Person Transactions Policy in order to
promote the timely identification of such transactions and to ensure we give
appropriate consideration to any real or perceived conflicts in our commercial
arrangement. We have established global processes through which employees,
either directly or anonymously, can notify management (and the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors) of alleged accounting and auditing concerns or
violations including fraud. Our internal Disclosure Committee meets regularly
and operates pursuant to formal disclosure procedures and guidelines which help
to ensure that our public disclosures are accurate and timely. Copies of our
Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and
Related Person Transactions Policy are available on our website at
www.criver.com under the “Investors Relations—Corporate Governance” caption.

Item 1A.

Risk
Factors

Risks Related to
Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K
and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated
by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.
We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, may
cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical
results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not
possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not
consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or
uncertainties.

The outsourcing
trend in the preclinical and clinical stages of drug discovery and development
may decrease, which could slow our growth.

Over the past several
years, some areas of our businesses have grown significantly as a result of the
increase in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies outsourcing their
preclinical and clinical research support activities. We believe that due to
the significant investment in facilities and personnel required to support drug
development, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies look to outsource some
or all of those services. By doing so, they can focus their resources on their
core competency of drug discovery, while obtaining the outsourced services from
a full-service provider like us. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing
trend to continue for the next several years a decrease in preclinical and/or
clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the
sales of one or more of our expected higher-growth areas and adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our customer
contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a
large contract or multiple contracts could adversely affect our sales and
profitability. Our operations and financial results could be significantly
affected these risks.


A reduction in
research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
may adversely affect our business.

Our customers include
researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to
continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the
ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to
continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the products and
services we provide. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of
these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on
the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets
fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary
policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease
in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government
laboratories or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry
trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect our business.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research
and development may adversely affect our business.

A portion of net sales in
our RMS segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research
laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing
of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of
Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Government
funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which
is inherently unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our
customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval
of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or
eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the
NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development
activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government
research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial
results.

Changes in
government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or
biotechnological industries, including potential health care reform, could
decrease the need for the services we provide.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, but
particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development
process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes
in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the
introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in
regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our
services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand
for our services.

In recent years the U.S. Congress and state
legislatures have considered various types of health care reform in order to
control growing health care costs. We are unable to predict what legislative
proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have
occurred in Europe and Asia.

Implementation of health
care reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be
made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research
and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in
the United States and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a
risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings.

Our standard
customer agreements contain liberal termination and service reduction
provisions, which may result in less contract revenue than we anticipate.

Generally, our agreements
with our customers provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or
reduce the scope of services under the agreements with little or no notice.
Customers may


elect to
terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including: the products
being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired study
results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested;
the customer’s decision to forego or terminate a particular study; or the loss
of funding for the particular research study. If a customer terminates a
contract with us, we are entitled under the terms of the contract to receive
revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases,
penalties. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate cancellation of
multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business (particularly
our Preclinical Services segment) and, therefore, may adversely affect our
operating results.

Many of our
contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope
for reasons beyond our control, or we may under price or overrun cost estimates
with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses.

Many of our contracts
provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and,
accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially under-price our
contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts
may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice.
Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including often upon the
discretion of the customer. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large
contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely
affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive
the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned
by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a
termination fee.

Contaminations in
our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free
production and result in decreased sales.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be
free of certain adventious, infectious agents such as certain viruses and
bacteria because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise
the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal
health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production
facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free
research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services
businesses including transgenic services, harm our reputation for
contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Contaminations typically
require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting. This
clean-up results in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced
sales as a result of lost customer orders and credits for prior shipments. In
addition, contaminations expose us to risks that customers will request
compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification
requirements. These contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict
and could adversely impact our financial results. We have made significant
capital expenditures designed to strengthen our biosecurity and have
significantly improved our operating procedures to protect against such
contaminations, however, contaminations may still occur.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating
internationally.

A significant part
of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our
international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries,
represented 50.2% of our total net sales in 2006, 49.8% of our total net sales
in 2005, and 31.6% in 2004. We expect that international revenues will continue
to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable
future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business,
including:

·

foreign
currencies we receive for sales outside the United States could be subject to
unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of
revenue that we recognize;


·

general
economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

·

potential
international conflicts, including terrorist acts;

·

potential
increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;

·

potential
trade restrictions, exchange controls and legal restrictions on the
repatriation of funds into the United States;

·

difficulties
and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including
risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by
employees oversees or the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign
Public Officials in International Business Transactions;

·

unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements;

·

the
difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

·

unfavorable
labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions;

·

longer
accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

·

import
and export licensing requirements.

In particular with respect
to our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom, significant amounts of
revenues and expenses are recorded in local (non-U.S.) currency. Our financial
statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, changes in currency
exchange rates, particularly between the pound sterling, the Canadian dollar,
the European Euro and the U.S. dollar, will cause fluctuations in our reported
financial results, which could be material. In addition, our contracts with
foreign customers are frequently denominated in currencies other than the
currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts. This is
particularly the case with respect to our Canadian operations, where contracts
generally provide for invoicing clients in U.S. dollars but its expenses are
generally incurred in Canadian dollars. Where expenses are incurred in
currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the
relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.

Negative attention from special interest groups may
impair our business.

The products and services
which we provide our customers are essential to the drug discovery and
development process, and are almost universally mandated by law.
Notwithstanding, certain special interests groups categorically object to the
use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research
model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of
significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with
animals have been the subject of adverse attention, impacting the industry.
This has included occasional, but infrequent, on-site demonstrations at
facilities operated by us. Any negative attention or threats directed against
our animal research activities in the future could impair our ability to
operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities were
to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures which utilize
laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), our business
could be materially adversely affected.

Several of our
product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply,
which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.

We depend on a limited
international source of supply of large animal models required in our product
and service offerings. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from
colony fertility and health problems, export or import restrictions or
embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather
conditions, disruptions to the air travel system or contract disputes or
disruptions. Any disruption


of
supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable
to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial
terms.

We may be unable to build out our facilities as
anticipated.

To support our customers’
growing demand for drug discovery and development services, including increased
strategic focus on outsourcing services and programs, we are engaged in a
substantial capacity expansion program, with $182 million spent on capital
expenditures in 2006 and another $200—$225 million allocated for capital
expenditures in 2007. Included in our 2007 capital plan are the following: our new
U.S. Preclinical Services facility in Nevada at which we expect to begin
phased-in occupancy in mid-Summer 2007, expansions at our Ohio and Edinburgh
Preclinical facilities, and an expansion of our RMS California capabilities (approximately
half of which is scheduled to open in the second quarter of 2007). We cannot
assure you that any or all of these facilities, or any particular phase of such
facilities, will be constructed on the anticipated timetable or on budget. Any
material delay in bringing these facilities on-line, or substantial increase in
costs to complete these facilities, could materially and adversely affect us.

Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations
could harm our reputation and operating results.

Any failure on our part to
comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing
research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory
authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and
our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed
consent is obtained from participants in connection with a particular Phase I
clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we
might be required to redo the trial at no further cost to our customer, but at
substantial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice of observations
or a warning from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of
good clinical practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice
requirements could materially and adversely affect us.

The drug discovery and development services industry
is highly competitive.

The drug discovery
and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for
business not only with other drug discovery and development companies, but also
with internal discovery and development departments within our clients, who are
often large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with greater resources
than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. We compete
on a variety of factors, including:

·

reputation
for on-time quality performance and regulatory compliance;

·

expertise
and experience in specific areas;

·

scope
of service and product offerings;

·

strengths
in various geographic markets;

·

price;

·

technological
expertise and efficient drug development processes;

·

quality
of facilities;

·

ability
to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner;

·

ability
to manage clinical trials both domestically and internationally; and

·

size.


If we do not compete
successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to
price and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results.
The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a
trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies. If
this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger
companies and contract research organizations generally for both clients and
acquisition candidates. In addition, small, limited-service entities
considering entering the contract research organization industry will continue
to find few barriers to entry, thus further increasing possible competition. These
competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our services and could
adversely affect our financial results.

We could be adversely affected by tax law changes in
the United Kingdom or Canada.

We have substantial
operations in the United Kingdom and Canada which currently benefit from favorable
corporate tax arrangements. We receive substantial tax credits in Canada from
both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments and benefits from tax credits
and accelerated tax depreciation allowances in the United Kingdom. Any
reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or allowances
would be likely to have a material adverse effect on profits and cash flow from
either or both of our Canadian and United Kingdom operations, and on our
effective tax rate.

Impairment of goodwill may adversely impact future
results of operations.

We accounted for our acquisition of Inveresk as a
purchase under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of
Inveresk, including identifiable intangible assets, have been recorded at their
respective fair values as of the date the acquisition was completed. The excess
of the purchase price over the fair value of acquired net assets and
liabilities was recorded as goodwill. As a result of our acquisitions, we have
recorded $1.1 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets.

During fiscal 2006, we sold our Phase II-IV Clinical
Services business segment, which we had acquired in the Inveresk transaction,
for approximately $215 million in cash as part of a portfolio realignment which
would allow us to capitalize on our core competencies. Accordingly, during 2006
we performed a goodwill impairment test for the Clinical Services business
segment and determined that the book carrying value of goodwill assigned to our
Clinical Services business segment exceeded its implied fair value. We
therefore recorded a $129.2 million charge to write-down the value of this
goodwill.

The remaining goodwill
will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment by us at least
annually. If the future growth and operating results of the acquired businesses
are not as strong as anticipated, goodwill may be impaired. To the extent
goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its implied
fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an impairment charge
could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial
condition.

Contract research services create a risk of liability.

In contracting to
work on drug development trials, as a contract research organization we face a
range of potential liabilities which may include:

·

errors
or omissions in reporting of study detail in preclinical or Phase I clinical
studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may potentially advance
studies absent the necessary support;

·

litigation
risk, including resulting from our errors or omissions, associated with the
possibility that the drugs of our clients that were included in drug
development trials we participated in may cause illness, personal injury or
have other negative side effects to clinical study participants or other
persons (including death);


·

general
risks associated with operating a Phase I business, including negative
consequences from the administration of drugs to clinical trial participants or
the professional malpractice of Phase I medical care providers;

·

risks
associated with our possible failure to properly care for our customers’
property, such as research models and samples, while in our possession;

·

risks
that models in our breeding facilities may be infected with diseases that may
be harmful and even lethal to themselves or humans despite preventive measures
contained in our company policies for the quarantine and handling of imported
animals; and

·

errors
and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or
data from the trial.

We attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety
of methods. Nonetheless, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks.

In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the
best of our abilities through our regiment of animal testing, quarantine, and
veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of
animal related disease or infections.

In our Preclinical businesses, we attempt to reduce
these risks by contract provisions entitling us to be indemnified or entitling
us to a limitation of liability; insurance maintained by our clients,
investigators, and by us; and various regulatory requirements we must follow in
connection with our business.

In both our RMS and Preclinical Services businesses, contractual
indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from
certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be
materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear
the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual
indemnification provision or in the event that a party who must indemnify us
does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level
of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will
be able to maintain such insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us.


If we are unable to attract suitable participants for
our clinical trials, our business might suffer.

The clinical research
studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of
subjects. Participants generally include people from the communities in which
the studies are conducted, including our Phase I clinics in Edinburgh, Scotland
and Tacoma, Washington, which to date has provided a substantial pool of
potential subjects for research studies. Our Phase I clinical research activities
could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing
participants on a consistent basis.

New technologies
may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that
could reduce demand for some of our products and services.

For many years, groups
within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop
models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the use of living
animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Some companies have developed
techniques in these areas, including vaccine development, that may have
scientific merit. It is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any
non-animal test method as it becomes validated as a research model alternative
or adjunct in our markets. However, we may not be successful in commercializing
these methods if developed, and sales or profits from these methods may not
offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative research
methods could decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to
develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost
sales.

The drug discovery
and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual
property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property
lawsuits.

The drug discovery and
development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property
litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Accordingly, we face
potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar
products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of
their intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual
property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s
attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not
prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay
substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop
the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable
terms.

Our debt level could adversely affect our business and
growth prospects.

At December 30, 2006,
we had approximately $572.1 million of debt. This debt could have significant
adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to
obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a
substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt
and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on
significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising
interest rates.

If we are not
successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we
acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past six
years, we have expanded our business through several acquisitions. We plan to
continue to acquire businesses and technologies and form alliances. However,
businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we
find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating
with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing the
transaction. Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous
risks which may include:

·

difficulties
and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services,
products or technologies;


·

difficulties
in developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management’s
attention from other business concerns;

·

potential
losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are
not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller;

·

risks
of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices,
language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of
foreign companies;

·

the
presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in
the financial systems of acquired companies; and

·

difficulties
in achieving business and financial success.

In the event that an
acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations,
our results of operations may be adversely affected.

We could experience
a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security
of our computer systems.

We operate large and
complex computer systems that contain significant amounts of customer data. As
a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and retain substantial
amounts of data pertaining to the preclinical and the clinical studies we
conduct for our customers. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain
entry to such computer systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting
the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them
from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could
suffer significant harm. Our contracts with our customers typically contain
provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from
these studies. In the event the confidentiality of such information was
compromised, we could suffer significant harm.

We depend on key
personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional
qualified personnel, which would harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the
continued services of our senior management and other members of management.
James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since
2000, has held various positions with us for 30 years. We have no employment agreement
with Mr. Foster or other members of our management. If Mr. Foster or
other members of management do not continue in their present positions, our
business may suffer.

Because of the specialized
scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified
scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have an excellent
record of employee retention, there is still strong competition for qualified
personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields.
Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel
necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of
existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key
scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm
our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could
negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations
in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors
as the number and scope of ongoing customer engagements, the commencement,
postponement, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in the quarter,
changes in the mix of our products and services, the extent of cost overruns,
holiday patterns of our customers, budget cycles of our customers, and exchange
rate fluctuations. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter
are not necessarily


a
meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our
quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our
common stock

Item 1B.

Unresolved
Staff Comments

There are no unresolved
comments to be reported in response to Item 1B.

Item 2.

Properties

We own and lease our
facilities. We own large facilities (over 50,000 square feet) for our PCS businesses
in the United States, Canada, Scotland and Ireland, and lease large facilities
in the United States and Canada. We have recently brought a new U.S.
Preclinical Service facility online in Massachusetts and will bring another one
in Nevada online in 2007. We own large RMS facilities in the United Kingdom,
France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Canada and the United States. None of our
leases are individually material to our business operations and many have an
option to renew. We believe that we will be able to successfully renew expiring
leases on terms satisfactory to us. We believe that our facilities are adequate
for our operations and that suitable additional space will be available when
needed. For additional information see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

We are not a party to any
material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental
to our business that is not material to our business or financial condition.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the
Registrant

(pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of
Regulation S-K)

.

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations
for the last five years of each our current executive officers. All such
persons have been elected to serve until their successors are elected and
qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.

Joanne
P. Acford,

age 51, joined us in 2004 as Corporate
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Prior to
joining us, Ms. Acford held a number of positions over 20 years at
John Hancock Financial Services, Inc., most recently as Senior Vice
President and Deputy General Counsel. Previously, Ms. Acford was an
associate in the Corporate Department at Hale and Dorr.

Thomas
F. Ackerman,

age 52, joined us in 1988 with over
eleven years of combined public accounting and international finance
experience. He was named Controller, North America in 1992 and became our Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In 1999, he was named a Senior
Vice President and in 2005 he was named a Corporate Executive Vice President.
He is currently responsible for overseeing our Accounting and Finance
Department and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman
was an accountant at Arthur Andersen & Co.

Christophe
Berthoux,

age
44, rejoined us in February 2005 as General Manager of our clinical
services business. Following the sale of our Phase II-IV clinical services
business in August 2006, Dr. Berthoux was named Corporate Senior Vice
President, U.S. Research Models and Services and In Vitro Products and Services.
Previously, from 1990 to early 2004, Dr. Berthoux held a variety of
managerial positions with the Company, including Corporate Vice President and
head of European Research Models and Services.


David
J. Elliott,

age
49, joined us in October 2005 as Corporate Vice President, Corporate
Controller. Prior to joining us, Mr. Elliott was Corporate Controller for
Cabot Corporation. Prior to Cabot, he had over twenty years of diverse,
financial experience with large, multinational companies in the chemical
industry. He is responsible for the corporate accounting and purchasing
functions and oversees all accounting and control activities globally.

John
C. Ho,

age
47, joined us in January 2006 as Corporate Senior Vice President,
Corporate Strategy. Dr. Ho has over 17 years experience serving
pharmaceutical, biotech, medical device and provider organizations in a variety
of capacities including corporate and M&A strategy formulation, product
commercialization, investment decision-making, process reengineering and organizational
redesign. Prior to joining us, Dr. Ho was a partner in Accenture’s Health
and Life Sciences Practice, where he led the Preclinical Development and the
Medical Device Practices, and before that he was a member of the Life Science
Industry Group of Pittiglio Rabin Todd & McGrath.

James
C. Foster,

age 56, joined us in 1976 as General
Counsel. Over the past 30 years, Mr. Foster has held various staff
and managerial positions, and was named our President in 1991, Chief Executive
Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000.

Nancy
A. Gillett,

age 51, joined us in 1999 with the
acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett has 21 years of
experience as an ACVP board certified pathologist and scientific manager. In
1999, she became Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Sierra
Biomedical division, and subsequently held a variety of managerial positions,
including President and General Manager of Sierra Biomedical and Corporate Vice
President and General Manager of Drug Discovery and Development (the predecessor
to our Preclinical Services business segment). In 2004, Dr. Gillett was
named Corporate Senior Vice President and President, Global Preclinical
Services, and in 2006 she became a Corporate Executive Vice President.

David
P. Johst,

age 45, joined us in 1991 as Corporate
Counsel and was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1995. He became Vice
President, Human Resources and Administration in 1996, a Senior Vice President
in 1999, and a Corporate Executive Vice President in 2005. He currently serves
as the Company’s Chief Administrative Officer and is responsible for overseeing
our Human Resources department, our Consulting and Staffing Services business
unit and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Johst was an attorney in the Corporate Department at Hale and
Dorr.

Real
H. Renaud,

age 59, joined us in 1964 and has over
40 years of research models production and related management experience.
In 1986, Mr. Renaud became Vice President of Production, with responsibility
for overseeing the Company’s North American small animal operations, and was
named Vice President, Worldwide Production in 1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice
President and General Manager, European and North American Animal Operations in
1996, following a two-year European assignment during which he provided direct
oversight to our European operations. In 1999, he became a Senior Vice
President and in 2003, Mr. Renaud became Executive Vice President and
General Manager, Global Research Models and Services.

Nicholas
Ventresca,

age 46, joined us in March 2006 as
Corporate Senior Vice President, Information Technology and Chief Information
Officer. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ventresca was Vice President in Business
Technology for Pfizer, Inc, and previously he served in a number of senior
information technology positions for multi-international organizations,
including Warner-Lambert’s Schick & Wilkinson Sword group and
Pepsi-Cola International. He is responsible for establishing our global
information technology strategies, and developing and maintaining our
information technology systems and operational plans.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases Of Equity Securities

Our
common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 23, 2000
under the symbol “CRL.” The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated below the high and low sales prices for our common stock.


High

Low

First quarter (through
  February 15, 2007)

$

47.64

$

42.71


High

Low

First quarter

$

51.50

$

41.99

Second quarter

49.95

36.30

Third quarter

43.46

33.73

Fourth quarter

45.34

41.00


High

Low

First quarter

$

51.64

$

43.99

Second quarter

49.52

45.16

Third quarter

53.09

42.80

Fourth quarter

46.00

40.50

Except as disclosed in a
current report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on June 12, 2006 with respect the Company’s sale of 2.25%
convertible senior notes due 2013, there were no equity securities that were
not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, sold by the
Company during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006.

Shareholders

As of February 15,
2007, there were approximately 555 registered shareholders of the outstanding
shares of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or
paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past two years and
we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently
intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. Some
of the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit agreement and
term loan agreements limit our ability to pay dividends.

Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities

The
following table provides information relating to the Company’s purchases of
shares of its common stock during the quarter ended December 30, 2006.

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased

Average Price

Paid per Share

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

as Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

Approximate $

Yet to be Purchased

Oct. 1, 2006 – Oct. 28,


$

43.41


$

38,628,392.34

Oct. 29,
  2006 – Nov. 25, 2006


$

42.92


$

38,628,392.34

Nov. 26,
  2006 – Dec. 30, 2006

76,953

$

43.10

76,900

$

35,311,507.48

Total

77,781

76,900


On July 27, 2005, the Board of Directors
authorized a share repurchase program to acquire up to $50.0 million of common
stock. On October 26, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized increasing
the share repurchase program by $50.0 million to a total of $100.0 million. On May 9,
2006, the Board of Directors authorized an additional increase of the Company’s
share repurchase program by $200.0 million to acquire up to a total of $300.0
million of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date.

During the quarter ended December 30,
2006, the Company repurchased 76,900 shares of common stock for approximately
$3.3 million. The timing and amount of any future repurchases will depend on
market conditions and corporate considerations. Additionally, the Company’s
2000 Incentive Plan permits the netting of common stock upon vesting of
restricted stock awards in order to satisfy individual tax withholding
requirements. Accordingly, during the quarter ended December 30, 2006, the
Company acquired 881 shares as a result of such withholdings.

Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The
following table summarizes, as of December 30, 2006, the number of options
issued under the Company’s stock option plans and the number of options
available for future issuance under these plans.

Plan Category

Number of securities to be

issued upon exercise of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

equity compensation

plans (excluding securities

reflected in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plan
  approved by security holders:

Charles River 2000 Incentive Plan

4,694,635

$

39.14

2,515,342

Charles River 1999 Management Incentive Plan

340,342

$

7.99

15,617

Charles River 2000 Directors Stock Plan

12,900

$

33.70

4,000

Inveresk 2002 Stock Option Plan

344,736

$

28.87

—

Inveresk 2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock
  Option Plan

—

—

—

Equity
  compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

5,392,613

$

36.50

2,534,959


Item 6.

Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

The following table
presents our selected consolidated financial data and other data as of and for
the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005, December 25,
2004, December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002. The Statement of
Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006, December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004, and the Balance Sheet Data at December 30,
2006 and December 31, 2005 have been derived from the audited consolidated
financial statements for such years, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 27,
2003 and December 28, 2002 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 25,
2004, December 27, 2003, and December 28, 2002 have been derived from
the audited consolidated financial statements for such years not included in
this Form 10-K. During 2006, we sold Phase II-IV of the Clinical
business and made a decision to close our Interventional and Surgical Services
(ISS) business. Accordingly, the results of these businesses are disclosed as
discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes (benefit), and are
reported as a separate component in the accompanying statement of income for
the current and prior periods. In addition, assets and liabilities of
discontinued businesses have been reclassified in the balance sheets of periods
ended prior to 2006. You should read the selected consolidated financial data
contained in this table in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated
financial statements and the related notes.

Fiscal Year(1)






(dollars in thousands)

Statement of Income Data:

Net sales

$

1,058,385

$

993,328

$

724,221

$

599,495

$

553,223

Cost of products sold
  and services provided

651,778

603,624

435,499

368,665

343,153

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses

180,795

157,999

116,879

88,800

83,368

Other operating
  expenses, net

—

—

—


—

Amortization of
  goodwill and intangibles

37,639

47,011

13,857

4,865

3,403

Operating income

188,173

184,694

157,986

136,418

123,299

Interest income

6,836

3,695

3,262

1,775

2,120

Interest expense

(19,426

)

(24,324

)

(11,718

)

(8,480

)

(11,205

)

Loss on debt
  retirement

—

—

—

—

(29,882

)

Other, net


(177

)



1,222

Income before
  income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

176,564

163,888

150,467

130,497

85,554

Provision for
  income taxes

49,738

16,261

60,159

50,230

32,324

Income before
  minority interests and earnings from equity investments

126,826

147,627

90,308

80,267

53,230

Minority interests

(1,605

)

(1,838

)

(1,577

)

(1,416

)

(2,784

)

Earnings from
  equity investments

—

—

—

—


Income from
  continuing operations

125,221

145,789

$

88,731

$

78,851

$

50,762

Income (loss) from
  discontinued businesses, net of tax

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

1,061

1,300

(630

)

Net income (loss)

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

$

89,792

$

80,151

$

50,132

Common Share Data:

Basic earnings (loss)

Continuing
  operations

$

1.82

$

2.09

$

1.79

$

1.73

$

1.14

Discontinued
  operations

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

$

0.03

$

(0.01

)

Net income (loss)

$

(0.81

)

$

2.04

$

1.81

$

1.76

$

1.12

Diluted earnings (loss)

Continuing
  operations

$

1.79

$

2.02

$

1.65

$

1.61

$

1.07

Discontinued
  operations

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

$

0.03

$

(0.01

)

Net income (loss)

$

(0.80

)

$

1.96

$

1.68

$

1.64

$

1.06

Other Data:

Depreciation and
  amortization

$

82,586

$

87,935

$

42,063

$

29,564

$

23,986

Capital
  expenditures

181,747

94,520

44,735

32,704

37,543

Balance Sheet Data (at end of period):

Cash and cash
  equivalents

$

175,380

$

114,821

$

207,566

$

182,331

$

122,509

Working capital

241,762

107,910

161,191

256,537

164,723

Goodwill, net

1,119,309

1,097,590

1,102,511

105,308

96,532

Total assets

2,557,544

2,538,209

2,626,835

799,554

701,344

Total debt

572,054

296,090

686,844

186,002

195,818

Total
  shareholders’ equity

1,595,211

1,827,013

1,472,505

464,623

357,376

(1)

Our fiscal year consists of 12 months ending on
the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

Continuing Operations

We are a leading global provider of solutions that
advance the drug discovery and development process, including research models
and associated services and outsourced preclinical services, which include
Phase I clinical services. We partner with global pharmaceutical companies, a
wide range of biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, leading
hospitals and academic institutions throughout the world in order to bring
drugs to market faster and more efficiently. Our wide array of tools and
services enables our customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance
their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. We
currently operate over 80 facilities in 15 countries worldwide.

We have been in business for 60 years. We have built
upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research
model technologies) to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of services
which address drug discovery and development in the preclinical arena,
including Phase I clinical studies.

We report two segments: Research Models and Services
(RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS), which reflect the manner in which our
operating units are managed. When we divested the Clinical Phase II-IV business
in the third quarter of 2006 we retained our Phase I Clinical Services business
as an integral strategic component of our service offerings which enables us to
support our customers’ preclinical efforts through early-stage clinical trials.
The Phase I Clinical Services results are included in the PCS segment.

Our sales growth in 2006 was driven by spending by
major pharmaceuticals

, biotechnology companies
and academic institutions

on our global products and services, which aid
in their development of new drugs and products. This growth in revenues was
partially offset by customer focus on cost-savings.

Future drivers for our business as a whole are primarily expected to
emerge from our customers’ continued growing demand for drug discovery and
development services, including increased strategic focus on outsourcing which
should drive future sales of services.

We expect our continuing capacity
expansion program to position us

to take advantage of these long-term
opportunities. In 2006 we began major construction at our preclinical sites in
Massachusetts and Nevada, which are planned to open in early and mid-2007,
respectively. Other significant projects include expanding our California RMS
capabilities, building of a facility in Maryland which will support the
National Cancer Institute (NCI) contract we were awarded in late 2006 as well
as additional RMS capacity, and additional Preclinical capacity in Ohio and
Scotland. Our capital expenditures of over $180 million in 2006, and our
planned capital expenditures in the range of $200 million to $225 million in
2007, reflect our ongoing commitment to this strategy.

In addition to internally generated organic growth,
our business strategy includes strategic “bolt-on” acquisitions that complement
our business and increase the rate of our growth, as reflected in our
acquisition in late 2006 of Northwest Kinetics, a Phase I clinical services
business, to augment our existing European Phase I clinic in Edinburgh,
Scotland.

Our overall results for 2006 were significantly
affected by the implementation of SFAS 123(R) (expensing of stock
options), which we adopted on a modified prospective application transition
method in the first quarter of 2006. The additional cost associated with stock
option expense was $11.7 million.

Total net sales in 2006
were $1.1 billion, an increase of 6.5% over the same period last year. The
sales increase was due primarily to increased customer demand and higher
pricing. The effect of foreign currency translation was negligible. Our gross
margin decreased to 38.4% of net sales, compared to 39.2%


of net
sales for 2005, due primarily to stock compensation expense and lower margins
in the RMS segment. Stock compensation expense for 2006 is set forth in the
following chart:

Stock Option
Expense

RMS

Preclinical

Unallocated

Corporate

Overhead

Total

(in thousands)

Cost of goods

$

1,728

$

2,307

$

—

$

4,035

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses

1,073

1,552

5,052

7,677

Total

$

2,801

$

3,859

$

5,052

$

11,712

Restricted Stock
Expense and Inveresk Stock Compensation Expense

RMS

Preclinical

Unallocated

Corporate

Overhead

Total

(in thousands)

Cost of goods

$

1,108

$

1,797

$

—

$

2,905

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses


1,754

3,955

6,532

Total

$

1,931

$

3,551

$

3,955

$

9,437

Total Stock
Compensation Expense

RMS

Preclinical

Unallocated

Corporate

Overhead

Total

(in thousands)

Cost of goods

$

2,836

$

4,104

$

—

$

6,940

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses

1,896

3,306

9,007

14,209

Total

$

4,732

$

7,410

$

9,007

$

21,149

Operating
income for the year was $188.2 million compared to $184.7 million for 2005. The
operating margin was 17.8% compared to 18.6% for the prior year. Our 2006
operating margin rate was unfavorably impacted by $11.7 million (1.1%) due to
the additional cost associated with expensing stock options under SFAS 123R,
although the negative effect was partially offset by improved margins in the PCS business.

Net
income from continuing operations was $125.2 million in 2006 compared to
$145.8 million in 2005. Diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations for 2006 were $1.79 compared to $2.02 in 2005.

Our
RMS segment, which represented 48.7% of net sales in 2006, includes sales of
research models, transgenic services, laboratory services, preconditioning
services, consulting and staffing services, vaccine support and in vitro
technology (primarily endotoxin testing). Net sales for this segment increased
2.4% compared to 2005, due to increased research model production and in vitro
sales, partially offset by lower large model and transgenic sales as well as
reduced spending by certain of our large pharmaceutical customers. Unfavorable
foreign currency translation

decreased the net
sales gain by 0.4%. We experienced declines in both the RMS gross margin and
operating margin, (to 41.6% from 42.8%, and to 28.7% from 31.8%, respectively),
mainly due to the impact of stock option expense and the impact of lower large
model and transgenic sales.

During 2006, we began construction to expand
capacity in our Northern California production facility to meet our West Coast
customers’ increased need for models, preconditioning services and value-added
model characterization services for their drug discovery and development
efforts. We expect to begin production in approximately one-half of this
addition in the second quarter of 2007. Preconditioning services presents a
significant opportunity for future growth, therefore, we intend to


dedicate space at our major breeding facilities over
the next few years to support our customers’ expected increased use of
outsourced preconditioning services.

Our Preclinical Services segment, which represented
51.3% of net sales in 2006, includes services required to take a drug through
the development process including discovery support, toxicology, pathology,
biopharmaceutical, bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism services
as well as Phase I clinical trials. Sales for this segment increased 10.9% over
2005. We experienced favorable market conditions as demand for toxicology
services particularly remained strong. Unfavorable foreign currency decreased
sales growth by 0.7%. The gross margin for Preclinical Services remained
essentially flat at 35.4% in 2006, due primarily to the negative impact of the
stock compensation expense offset by increased capacity utilization. The
operating margin increased to 15.2% of net sales compared to 13.9% of net sales
in 2005 due mainly to lower amortization expense, which was partially offset by
the stock compensation expense. We expect to see increasing levels of customer
demand in certain of our development services businesses, particularly large
model, reproductive and inhalation toxicology. We continue to focus on meeting
the growing demand for our preclinical services and increased outsourcing
trends through our expansion program. In 2006 we began major construction at
our preclinical sites in Massachusetts and Nevada, which are planned to open in
early and mid-2007, respectively. In addition, in 2007, we plan
construction on new capacity in Edinburgh, Scotland and Ohio which we expect
will be online in 2008.

Discontinued Operations

Our
former Phase II-IV Clinical Services and our Interventional and Surgical
Services (ISS) businesses are reported as discontinued operations. Our
historical information has been reclassified to reflect discontinued
operations.

During
fiscal 2006, the Company initiated actions to sell and sold Phase II-IV of our
clinical business. Accordingly, management performed appropriate goodwill
impairment and asset impairment tests for the Clinical business segment. As a
result, we recorded charges of $129.2 million to write down the value of the
goodwill associated with the Clinical business. Additionally, the Company made
a decision to close its ISS business, which was formerly included in the PCS segment.

Net income (loss) from discontinued operations for
2006 was $(181.0) million which included the goodwill impairment of $129.2
million, the tax expense of $37.8 million related to the sale of the Phase
II-IV Clinical business as well as results from our ISS business.

Net Income

Net income (loss) for 2006 was $(55.8) million
compared to $142.0 million in 2005.

Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates

The
preparation of these financial statements requires management to use judgment
when making assumptions that are involved in preparing estimates that affect
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and
assumptions. Some of those estimates can be complex and require management to
make estimates about the future and actual results could differ from those
estimates. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical
experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by
management, there may also be other estimates or assumptions that are
reasonable.


Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes the
following critical accounting policies are most affected by significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements. The following summary should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. We believe the following critical accounting
policies and estimates reflect our more significant judgments and estimates
than usual in the preparation of our consolidated financial statement:

·

Goodwill
and other intangible assets;

·

Revenue
recognition;

·

Pension
plan accounting; and

·

Income
taxes and deferred tax assets.

Goodwill, Other
Intangible Assets.

We have intangible assets,
including goodwill and other identifiable finite and indefinite-lived
acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to the acquisition of businesses
we acquired. The identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the
determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition require
significant management judgments and estimates. These estimates are made based
on, among others, input from an accredited valuation consultant, reviews of
projected future income cash flows and statutory regulations. The use of
alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated
fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, and potentially result
in a different impact to our results of operations.

We perform an annual review of goodwill to determine
if an impairment exists. Goodwill is considered impaired if we determine that
the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Assessing the
impairment of goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding
the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Our evaluation
includes management estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal
strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from
this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our
assessment. Our market capitalization was also compared to the discounted cash
flow analysis. We performed annual impairment tests in 2006 and concluded the
goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were not
impaired. As of December 30, 2006, we had recorded goodwill and other
intangibles of $1.3 billion in the consolidated balance sheet. The results
of this year’s impairment review is as of a point in time and changes in future
business strategy or market conditions could significantly impact the
assumptions used in calculating the fair value of these assets in subsequent
years.

Revenue
Recognition.

We recognize revenue on product and
services sales. We record product revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or
determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Recognition of service
revenue is primarily based on the completion of agreed-upon service procedures
including rate specified contracts and fixed fee contracts. Revenue of
agreed-upon rate contracts is recognized as services are performed, based on
rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized
as services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete procedures
specified by the customers in the form of study protocols. Our fixed fee
service contracts, which are utilized mainly in our Preclinical segment, vary
in term from a few days to greater than a year, with the majority of such
contracts having a term of less than six months. On a monthly basis, management
reviews the costs incurred and services provided to date on these contracts in
relation to the total estimated effort to complete the contract. As a result of
the monthly reviews, revisions in estimated effort to complete the contract are
reflected in the period in which the change became known. These judgments and
estimates are not expected to result in a change that would materially effect
our reported results. In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at
the time the study is initiated. These


advances are deferred and
recognized as revenue as services are performed. Conversely, in some cases,
revenue is recorded based on the level of service performed in advance of
billing the customer with the offset to unbilled receivable. As of December 30,
2006, we had recorded unbilled revenue of $49.4 million and deferred
revenue of $93.2 million in our consolidated balance sheet based on the
difference between the estimated level of services performed and the billing
arrangements defined by our service contracts.

Pension Plan
Accounting.

As of December 30, 2006, we had a
pension liability of $49.6 million. The actuarial computations require the
use of assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to
employees and allocate this cost to the service periods. The key assumptions
include the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and expected
future rate of salary increases. In addition, our actuaries determine the
expense or liability of the plan using other assumptions for future experiences
such as withdrawal and mortality rate. The key assumptions used to calculate
pension costs are determined and reviewed annually by management after
consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed discount
rate, which is intended to be the actual rate at which benefits could
effectively be settled, is adjusted based on the change in the long-term bond
yield as of the measurement date. As of December 30, 2006 the weighted
average discount rate for our pension plans was 4.95%.

The assumed expected return on plan assets is the
average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide
future benefits to pension plan participants. This includes considering the
assets allocation and expected returns likely to be earned over the life of the
plan. If the actual return is different from the assumed expected return in
plan assets, the difference would be amortized over a period of approximately
15 to 20 years. During 2006, based on our most recent analysis of
historical and projected returns, we lowered our expected return on plan assets
resulting in a weighted average return of 6.58% from 7.28%. The estimated
effect of a 1.0% change in the expected rate of return would increase or
decrease pension expense by $1.6 million annually.

Income Taxes and
Deferred Tax Assets.

As part of the process of
preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate
our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process
involves estimating our current tax exposure and assessing temporary and
permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and
accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. In certain
cases, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be
recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that
recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. In the event
that actual results differ from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates
in future periods, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance
which could impact our financial position or results of operations.

As of December 30, 2006, earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled
$215.9 million. No provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided
thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or
otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable
to the various foreign countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount
of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

We are a worldwide business and operate in various tax
jurisdictions where tax laws and tax rates are subject to change given the
political and economic climate in these countries. We report and pay income
taxes based upon operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision
contemplates tax rates in effect to determine both the current and deferred tax
position. Any significant fluctuation in rates or in tax laws could cause our
estimate of taxes that we anticipate to change. These changes could result in
either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

Our tax positions are
consistently subject to challenge by taxing authorities around the world. Due
to our size and the number of tax jurisdictions within which we conduct our
business operations, we are subject to tax audits on a regular basis. As a
result, we have tax reserves which are attributable to potential


tax
obligations around the world. We believe the reserves are necessary to
adequately reflect tax obligations which may arise out of current and future
audits.

Segment Operations

The
following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of each of
our reportable segments for the past three years. They also show cost of
products sold and services provided, selling, general and administrative
expenses, amortization of goodwill and intangibles and operating income by
segment and as percentages of their respective segment net sales.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


(dollars in millions)

Net sales:

Research models and services

$

515.0

$

503.2

$

476.7

Preclinical services

543.4

490.2

247.6

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

$

300.9

$

287.6

$

269.8

Preclinical services

350.9

316.0

165.7

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

$

65.9

$

55.5

$

54.1

Preclinical services

73.0

59.5

35.8

Unallocated corporate overhead

41.9

43.0

27.0

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

$

0.5

$

0.3

$

0.2

Preclinical services

37.2

46.7

13.7

Operating income:

Research models and services

$

147.8

$

159.8

$

152.6

Preclinical services

82.3

67.9

32.4

Unallocated corporate
  overhead

(41.9

)

(43.0

)

(27.0

)


Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Net sales:

Research models and services

48.7

%

50.6

%

65.8

%

Preclinical services

51.3

%

49.4

%

34.2

%

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

58.4

%

57.2

%

56.6

%

Preclinical services

64.6

%

64.5

%

66.9

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

12.8

%

11.0

%

11.3

%

Preclinical services

13.4

%

12.1

%

14.5

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

—

—

—

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

0.1

%

0.1

%

—

Preclinical services

6.8

%

9.5

%

5.5

%

Operating income:

Research models and services

28.7

%

31.8

%

32.0

%

Preclinical services

15.1

%

13.9

%

13.1

%

Unallocated
  corporate overhead

(4.0

)%

(4.3

)%

(3.7

)%

In our consolidated
statements of income, we provide a breakdown of net sales and cost of sales
between net products and services. Such information is reported irrespective of
the business segment from which the sales were generated.

Results of
Operations

The
following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of
net sales for the periods shown:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Net sales

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

Cost of products
  sold and services provided

61.6%

60.8%

60.1%

Selling, general
  and administrative expenses

17.1%

15.9%

16.1%

Amortization of
  other intangibles

3.6%

4.7%

1.9%

Operating Income

17.8%

18.6%

21.8%

Interest income

0.6%

0.4%

0.5%

Interest expense

1.8%

2.4%

1.6%

Provision for
  income taxes

4.7%

1.6%

8.3%

Minority
  interests

0.2%

0.2%

0.2%

Income from continuing
  operations

11.8%

14.7%

12.2%

Fiscal 2006
Compared to Fiscal 2005

Net Sales.

Net sales in
2006 were $1,058.4 million, an increase of $65.1 million, or 6.5%,
from $993.3 million in 2005.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2006, net sales from our RMS segment were $515.0 million, an increase of
$11.8 million, or 2.4%, from $503.2 million in 2005. Unfavorable
foreign currency translation


reduced our net sales gain
by 0.4%. RMS sales increased due to pricing and unit volume increases in both
models and services. The RMS sales growth was driven by increases in basic research
and biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our products and
services, partially offset by continued slowdown in the transgenic services
business and lower large model sales.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2006, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $543.4 million,
an increase of $53.2 million, or 10.9%, compared to $490.2 million in
2005. The increase was primarily due to the increased customer demand for
toxicology and other specialty preclinical services, reflecting increased drug
development efforts and customer outsourcing. Favorable foreign currency
increased sales growth by 0.7%.

Cost of Products
Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2006 was $651.8 million, an increase of
$48.2 million, or 8.0%, from $603.6 million in 2005. Cost of products
sold and services provided in 2006 was 61.6% of net sales, compared to 60.8% in
2005 due to stock compensation expense and higher costs in RMS.

Research
Models and Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2006 was $300.9 million,
an increase of $13.3 million, or 4.6%, compared to $287.6 million in
2005. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2006 increased to 58.4% of
net sales compared to 57.2% of net sales in 2005. The continued slowdown in the
transgenic services business, lower large model sales, lower research model
sales mainly in Japan, stock compensation expense, second quarter cost-saving
initiatives which included the shutdown of two small vaccine sites and higher
delivery costs all adversely impacted the cost of products sold and services
provided as a percent of sales.

Preclinical
Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in
2006 was $350.9 million, an increase of $34.9 million, or 11.0%,
compared to $316.0 million in 2005. Cost of products sold and services
provided as a percentage of net sales was 64.6% in 2006, compared to 64.5% in
2005. The increase in cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was primarily due to stock compensation expense
partially offset by improved capacity utilization resulting from the increased
sales of services.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2006 were $180.8 million, an
increase of $22.8 million, or 14.4%, from $158.0 million in 2005.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 were 17.1% of net sales
compared to 15.9% of net sales in 2005. The increase as a percent of sales was
due primarily to the impact of stock compensation expense.

Research
Models and Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2006 were $65.9 million, an
increase of $10.4 million, or 18.7%, compared to $55.5 million in
2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased slightly as a
percentage of sales to 12.8% in 2006 from 11.0% in 2005 due mainly to stock
compensation expense.

Preclinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in
2006 were $73.0 million, an increase of $13.5 million, or 22.7%,
compared to $59.5 million in 2005. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2006 increased to 13.4% of net sales, compared to 12.1% of net
sales in 2005. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as
a percent of sales in 2006 was due primarily to the increased stock
compensation expense.

Unallocated
Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated
corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including
those associated with pension, executive salaries and departments such as
corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $41.9 million in
2006, compared to $43.0 million in 2005. The decrease in unallocated
corporate overhead in 2006 was due to reduced restricted stock compensation
expense.


Amortization of
Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles
in 2006 was $37.6 million, a decrease of $9.4 million, from
$47.0 million in 2005. The decreased amortization was primarily due to
reduced amortization related to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2006, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was
$0.5 million, an increase of $0.2 million from $0.3 million in
2005.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2006, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment
was $37.2 million, a decrease of $9.5 million from $46.7 million
in 2005. The decrease in amortization of other intangibles was primarily due to
reduced amortization related to the Inveresk acquisition.

Operating Income.

Operating
income in 2006 was $188.2 million, an increase of $3.5 million, or
1.9%, from $184.7 million in 2005. Operating income in 2006 was 17.8% of
net sales, compared to 18.6% of net sales in 2005. The decrease as a percent of
sales was due primarily to stock compensation expense.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2006, operating income for our RMS segment was $147.8 million, an decrease
of $12.0 million, or 7.5%, from $159.8 million in 2005. Operating
income as a percentage of net sales in 2006 was 28.7%, compared to 31.8% in
2005. The decrease in operating income as a percent to sales was primarily due
to increase in cost of products sold and services provided due to stock
compensation expense, the slowdown in the Transgenic Services business and
lower large model sales.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2006, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was
$82.3 million, an increase of $14.4 million, or 21.2%, from
$67.9 million in 2005. Operating income as a percentage of net sales
increased to 15.1%, compared to 13.9% of net sales in 2005. The increase in
operating income as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher sales
which resulted in improved operating efficiency and lower amortization costs,
partially offset by stock compensation expense and cost-saving initiatives.

Interest Expense.

Interest
expense in 2006 was $19.4 million, compared to $24.3 million in 2005.
The $4.9 million decrease was primarily due to debt repayment.

Income Taxes.

Income tax
expense for 2006 was $49.7 million an increase of $33.4 million compared to
$16.3 million in 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to the one
time 2005 net benefit of $28.3 million or 17.3%, from the effects of a
distribution under the AJCA of $24.1 million and the 2005 change of the Company’s
assertion with respect to the remaining Inveresk pre-acquisition earnings of
$29.2 million, offset by the 2005 tax charge related to the Company’s
restructuring of its UK operations as a part of the plan of distribution of
$23.1 million and a charge of $1.9 million related to the write off of deferred
tax assets.

Income from
Continuing Operations.

Income from
continuing operations in 2006 was $125.2 million, a decrease of
$20.6 million from $145.8 million in 2005.

Income (Loss) from
Discontinued Operations.

The
loss from discontinued operations was $(181.0) million due mainly to the
goodwill impairment in the first quarter.

Net Income (Loss).

Net income (loss) in 2006 was
$(55.8) million compared to $142.0 in 2005.

Fiscal 2005
Compared to Fiscal 2004

Net Sales.

Net sales in
2005 were $993.3 million, an increase of $269.1 million, or 37.2%,
from $724.2 million in 2004.


Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, net sales from our RMS segment were $503.2 million, an increase of
$26.5 million, or 5.6%, from $476.7 million in 2004. Favorable
foreign currency translation contributed approximately 0.2% to our net sales
gain. RMS global prices increased approximately 3% and unit volume of both
models and services increased approximately 2%. Sales of our research models
and services increased, particularly in North America, due to growing market
demand for our higher priced specialty units partially offset by a continued
slowdown in the transgenic service market. The RMS sales increase was driven by
increases in basic research and biotechnology spending which drove greater
demand for our products and services.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $490.2 million,
an increase of $242.6 million, or 98.0%, compared to $247.6 million
in 2004. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Inveresk in October 2004
and the increased customer demand for toxicology and other preclinical services
partially offset by the negative impact of softness in our interventional and
surgical services and biopharmaceutical services businesses. Our Preclinical
Services business benefited from the growth of the preclinical market
reflecting increased drug development efforts and outsourcing trends. Foreign
currency unfavorably impacted the sales growth rate by less than 0.4%.

Cost of Products
Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2005 was $603.6 million, an increase of
$168.1 million, or 38.6%, from $435.5 million in 2004. Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2005 was 60.8% of net sales, compared to
60.1% in 2004.

Research
Models and Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2005 was $287.6 million,
an increase of $17.8 million, or 6.6%, compared to $269.8 million in
2004. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2005 increased to 57.2% of
net sales compared to 56.6% of net sales in 2004. The increase in cost of
products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily
due to the slow down in the transgenic services sales and higher fuel costs.

Preclinical
Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in
2005 was $316.0 million, an increase of $150.3 million, or 90.7%,
compared to $165.7 million in 2004. Cost of products sold and services
provided as a percentage of net sales was 64.5% in 2005, compared to 66.9% in
2004. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was primarily due to improved capacity utilization from
the increased sales of services along with select pricing increases.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2005 were $158.0 million, an
increase of $41.1 million, or 35.2%, from $116.9 million in 2004.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 were 15.9% of net sales
compared to 16.1% of net sales in 2004. The increase in selling general and
administrative expenses was due primarily to the impact of our restricted stock
grant in 2005, other stock-based compensation and a charge for the acceleration
of stock options of $1.6 million.

Research
Models and Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2005 were $55.5 million, an
increase of $1.4 million, or 2.6%, compared to $54.1 million in 2004.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased slightly as a percentage
of sales to 11.0% in 2005 from 11.3% in 2004.

Preclinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in
2005 were $59.5 million, an increase of $23.7 million, or 66.2%,
compared to $35.8 million in 2004. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2005 decreased to 12.1% of net sales, compared to 14.5% of net
sales in 2004. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as
a percent of sales in 2005 was due primarily to the increased sales.

Unallocated
Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated
corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including
those associated with pension, executive salaries and departments such as
corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $43.0 million in
2005, compared to $27.0 million in


2004. The substantial
increase in unallocated corporate overhead in 2005 was due to our restricted
stock compensation, Inveresk related stock based compensation and professional
fees associated with the repatriation.

Amortization of
Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles
in 2005 was $47.0 million, an increase of $33.1 million, from
$13.9 million in 2004. The increased amortization was primarily due to the
acquisition of Inveresk.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was
$0.3 million, an increase of $0.1 million from $0.2 million in
2004.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment
was $46.7 million, an increase of $33.0 million from
$13.7 million in 2004. The increase in amortization of other intangibles
was primarily due to the full-year effect of the Inveresk acquisition.

Operating Income.

Operating
income in 2005 was $184.7 million, an increase of $26.7 million, or
16.9%, from $158.0 million in 2004. Operating income in 2005 was 18.6% of
net sales, compared to 21.8% of net sales in 2004. The decrease as a percent of
sales was due primarily to the unfavorable impact of amortization of
intangibles and the stock-based compensation in both cases relating to our
acquisition of Inveresk as well as the increased mix of preclinical services in
our overall business.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, operating income for our RMS segment was $159.8 million, an increase
of $7.2 million, or 4.7%, from $152.6 million in 2004. Operating
income as a percentage of net sales in 2005 was 31.8%, compared to 32.0% in
2004. The decrease in operating income as a percent to sales was primarily due
to the increase in cost of products sold and services provided due to the
slowdown in Transgenic Services.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was
$67.9 million, an increase of $35.5 million from $32.4 million
in 2004. Operating income as a percentage of sales increased to 13.9%, compared
to 13.1% of net sales in 2004. The increase in operating income as a percent of
sales in 2005 was primarily due to greater efficiencies in cost of products
sold and services provided and particularly global toxicology sales offset by
Inveresk amortization.

Interest Expense.

Interest
expense in 2005 was $24.3 million, compared to $11.7 million in 2004.
The $12.6 million increase was primarily due to the increased borrowing as
a result of the Inveresk acquisition.

Income Taxes.

Income tax
expense for 2005 was $16.3 million or 9.9%, a decrease of $43.9 million
compared to $60.2 million or 40.0% in 2004. The decrease was primarily
attributable to a net benefit of $28.3 million or 17.3% from the effects of a
distribution under the AJCA of $24.1 million, the change of the Company’s
assertion with respect to the remaining Inveresk pre-acquisition earnings of
$29.2 million, offset by a tax charge related to the Company’s restructuring of
its UK operations as a part of the plan of distribution of $23.1 million and a
charge of $1.9 million related to the write off of deferred tax assets. The
Company’s 2005 income tax expense also reflects a full year tax benefit from
tax credits and enhanced deductions in Canada and the United Kingdom from
research and development spending of $12.0 million or 7.3%.

Income from
Continuing Operations.

Income from
continuing operations in 2005 was $145.8 million, an increase of
$57.1 million from $88.7 million in 2004.

Income (Loss) from
Discontinued Operations.

Income
(loss) from discontinued operations of $(3.8) million in 2005 compared to $1.1
million in 2004.

Net Income.

Net income in 2005 was $142.0
million compared to $89.8 million in 2004.


Liquidity and
Capital Resources

The following discussion analyzes liquidity and
capital resources by operating, investing and financing activities as presented
in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.

Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash
flow from operations, the convertible debt offering, proceeds from the sale of
our Phase II-IV Clinical business and our revolving line of credit arrangements.

On July 31, 2006, we amended and restated our
then-existing credit agreement to reduce the current interest rate, modify
certain restrictive covenants and extend the term. The now $428.0 million
credit agreement provides for a $156.0 million U.S. term loan facility, a
$200.0 million U.S. revolving facility, a C$57.8 million term loan facility and
a C$12.0 million revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary, and a GBP 6.0
million revolving facility for a U.K. subsidiary (the $428.0 million credit
agreement). The $156.0 million term loan facility matures in 20 quarterly
installments with the last installment due June 30, 2011. The $200.0
million U.S. revolving facility matures on July 31, 2011 and requires no
scheduled payment before that date. Under specified circumstances, the $200.0
million U.S. revolving facility may be increased by $100.0 million. The
Canadian term loan is repayable in full by June 30, 2011 and requires no
scheduled prepayment before that date. The Canadian and UK revolving facilities
mature on July 31, 2011 and require no scheduled prepayment before that
date. The interest rate applicable to the Canadian term loan and the Canadian
and U.K. revolving loans under the credit agreement is the adjusted LIBOR rate
in its relevant currency plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage
ratio. The interest rates applicable to term loans and revolving loans under
the credit agreement are, at our option, equal to either the base rate (which
is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the
adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio.
Based on our leverage ratio, the margin range for LIBOR based loans is 0.625%
to 0.875%. The interest rate margin was 0.75% as of December 30, 2006. The
Company has pledged the stock of certain subsidiaries as well as certain U.S.
assets as security for the $428.0 million credit agreement. The
$428.0 million credit agreement includes certain customary representations
and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. The
Company had $5.4 million and $5.0 million outstanding under letters of credit
as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.

As of December 30, 2006, there was no outstanding
balance on the revolving facility.

We are also party to a $50 million credit agreement,
which was entered into on July 27, 2005 and which was subsequently amended
on December 20, 2005 and again on July 31, 2006 to reflect
substantially the same modifications made to the covenants in the $428 million
credit agreement. The $50 million credit agreement provides for a $50 million
term loan facility which matures on July 27, 2007 and can be extended for
an additional 7 years. The interest rates applicable to term loans under this
credit agreement are, at our option, equal to either the base rate (which is
the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus ½%) or the LIBOR
rate plus 0.75%. The $50 million credit agreement includes certain customary
representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events
of default.

As of December 30, 2006, the entire balance of
the $50.0 million credit agreement was outstanding.

On June 12, 2006, we issued $350.0 million
aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes (the 2013
Notes) in a private placement with net proceeds to the Company of $343.0
million. The 2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable
semi-annually, and mature on June 15, 2013. The 2013 Notes are convertible
into cash and shares of common stock (or, at the Company’s election, cash in
lieu of some or all of such common stock) based on an initial conversion rate,
subject to adjustment, of 20.4337 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $48.94 per
share).


Concurrently with the sale of the 2013 Notes, we
entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to our obligation
to deliver common stock under the 2013 Notes. The convertible note hedges give
us the right to receive, for no additional consideration, the numbers of shares
of common stock that we are obligated to deliver upon conversion of the 2013
Notes (subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially identical to those in
the 2013 Notes), and expire on June 15, 2013. The aggregate cost of these
convertible note hedges was $98.3 million.

Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the
2013 Notes, we issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of our
common stock. The warrants give the holders the right to receive, for no
additional consideration, cash or shares (at our option) with a value equal to
the appreciation in the price of our shares above $59.925, and expire between September 13,
2013 and January 22, 2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds
from the issuance of the warrants were $65.4 million.

From an economic perspective, the cumulative impact of
the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants
increases the effective conversion price of the 2013 Notes from $48.94 to
$59.25 per share.

In August 2006 we entered into an Accelerated
Stock Repurchase (ASR) program with a third-party investment bank. In
connection with this ASR program, we initially purchased 1,787,706 shares of
stock at a cost of $75 million. In conjunction with the ASR, we also entered
into a cashless collar with a forward floor price of $37.9576 per share of our
common stock (95% of the initial price of $39.9554, the market price of our
common stock on August 23, 2006) and a forward cap price of $41.9532 per
share of our common stock (105% of the initial price). The final number of
shares repurchased under the ASR program was 1,787,706 and was determined by
taking the average volume weighted average price of our common stock for 65
trading days which resulted in a final share price of $42.6503 per share. Since
the final share price of $42.6503 was above the cap price of $41.9532, there
was no adjustment to the final number of shares repurchased.

In November 2006 the Company entered into a new Rule 10b5-1
Stock Purchase Plan with a third-party investment bank for the remaining $38.6
million authorized under our share repurchase program.

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $175.4 million
at December 30, 2006, compared to $114.8 million at December 31,
2005.

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 and
2005 was $176.0 million and $216.8 million, respectively. The
decrease in cash provided by operations was primarily due to changes in
accounts receivable and deferred income. Our days sales outstanding increased
to 39 days as of December 30, 2006, from 33 days as of December 31,
2005 due mainly to reduced deferred revenue. Our days sales outstanding
includes deferred revenue as an offset to accounts receivable in the calculation.

Net cash used in investing activities in 2006 and 2005
was $297.4 million and $113.0 million, respectively. Our capital
expenditures in 2006 were $181.7 million of which $27.0 million was
related to RMS and $154.7 million to Preclinical Services. For 2007, we
project capital expenditures to be in the range of $200 - $225 million. We
anticipate that future capital expenditures will be funded by operating
activities and existing credit facilities.

Net cash provided by financing activities in 2006 was
$5.6 million and cash used in financing activities in 2005 was
$195.2 million. During 2006, we received proceeds of $440.3 million of
long-term debt partially offset by our purchase of $250.0 million of treasury
stock and our repayment of debt of $170.9 million. During 2005, we repaid
$337.3 million of our debt partially offset by additional borrowing of $133.7
million.


Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 30, 2006 are as
follows:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1 — 3

Years

3 — 5

Years

After

5 Years

Debt

$

572.0

$

25.0

$

69.0

$

93.0

$

385.0

Interest payments

91.9

20.9

38.3

32.7

—

Operating leases

55.0

19.2

23.4

7.7

4.7

Pension

50.0

7.8

15.6

15.6

11.0

Total contractual cash obligations

$

768.9

$

72.9

$

146.3

$

149.0

$

400.7

Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements

The conversion features of
our 2013 Notes are equity-linked derivatives. As such, we recognize these
instruments as off-balance sheet arrangements. The conversion features
associated with these notes would be accounted for as derivative instruments,
except that they are indexed to our common stock and classified in stockholders’
equity. Therefore, these instruments meet the scope of exception of paragraph
11(a) of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” and are accordingly not accounted for as derivatives for
purposes of SFAS No. 133.

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”).
SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets
out framework for measuring fair value and expands on required disclosures
about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for us on January 1,
2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of SFAS 157 are not
expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

We adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements
of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88,
106, and 132(R)” as of December 30, 2006. This statement requires
employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the funded status of
a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains, losses and prior service
costs or credits that arise during the period that are not recognized as
components of net periodic benefit cost as a component of other comprehensive
income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of
the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end balance sheet; and disclose in the
notes to financial statements additional information about certain effects on
net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that arise from delayed
recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and
transition asset or obligation.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108). Due
to diversity in practice among registrants, SAB 108 expresses SEC staff
views regarding the process by which misstatements in financial statements are
evaluated for purposes of determining whether financial statement restatement
is necessary. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15,
2006, and early application is encouraged. We have applied the provisions of
SAB 108 in the third quarter of 2006 which had an immaterial impact on selling,
general and administrative expense and tax expense which resulted in a positive
impact of $0.01 on our earnings per share in the statement of operations.

The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FAS No. 109 (FIN 48),
which clarifi

es
the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Currently, the
accounting for uncertainty in income taxes is subject to significant and varied
interpretations that have resulted in diverse and inconsistent accounting
practices and measurements. Addressing such diversity, FIN 48 prescribes a
consistent recognition threshold and measurement attribute, as well as clear
criteria for subsequently recognizing, derecognizing


and
measuring changes in such tax positions for financial statement purposes. FIN
48 also requires expanded disclosure with respect to the uncertainty in income
taxes. FIN 48 is effective for fi

scal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We
have evaluated the interpretation and have determined the impact of FIN 48 will
not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial results.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Certain of our financial
instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and
foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not use financial instruments
for trading or other speculative purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

The fair value of our marketable securities is subject
to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase.
If market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points
from levels at December 30, 2006, then the fair value of the portfolio
would decline by approximately $0.3 million.

We have entered into two
credit agreements, the $428 million credit agreement (prior to July 31,
2006, the $660 million credit agreement) and the $50 million credit agreement.
Our primary interest rate exposure results from changes in LIBOR or the base
rates which are used to determine the applicable interest rates under our term
loans in the $428 million credit agreement and in the $50 million agreement and
our revolving credit facilities. Our potential loss over one year that would
result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis
points in the interest rate would be approximately $4.8 million on a
pre-tax basis. The book value of our debt approximates fair value.

Foreign Currency
Exchange Rate Risk

We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our earnings and cash flows.
This risk is mitigated by the fact that various foreign operations are
principally conducted in their respective local currencies. A portion of our
foreign operations’ revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, with the costs
accounted for in their local currencies. We attempt to minimize this exposure
by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in
accordance with our overall risk management and our hedge policy. In accordance
with our hedge policy, we designate certain transactions as hedges as set forth
in SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.”

During 2006, we utilized
foreign exchange contracts, principally to hedge the impact of currency
fluctuations on customer transactions and certain balance sheet items. No
material, foreign exchange contracts were outstanding on December 30,
2006.


Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Management


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
  December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 30,
  2006 and December 31, 2005


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
  ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25,


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’
  Equity for the years ended December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and
  December 25, 2004


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial
  Statement Schedules:

Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


Supplementary
  Data:

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)



Report of
Management

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting

The management of
the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15(d)-15(f) promulgated
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers and effected by the company’s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting
principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

·

Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

·

Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and

·

Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot
provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because
of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a
process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses
in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over
financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper
management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material
misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal
control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known
features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to
design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of
the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 30,
2006. In making this assessment, the company’s management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework.

Based on this assessment, management concluded that,
as of December 30, 2006, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of
the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 30,
2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated within their report which appears
herein.


Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.:

We have completed
integrated audits of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc’s
consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial
reporting as of December 30, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based
on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 30,
2006 and December 31, 2005, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 30,

in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule listed in the accompanying index

presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule

based on our audits.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of
financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As
discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for share-based payments on January 1,
2006. In addition, as discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined benefit
pension and other post retirement obligations as of December 30, 2006.

Internal control
over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006 based on criteria
established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission,

is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those
criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30,
2006, based on criteria established in

Internal Control -
Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment
and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over
financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting
includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing


and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 27, 2007


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Net sales related
  to products

$

374,832

$

364,303

$

339,993

Net sales related
  to services

683,553

629,025

384,228

Net sales

1,058,385

993,328

724,221

Costs and expenses

Cost of products sold

211,008

199,517

185,428

Cost of services provided

440,770

404,107

250,071

Selling, general and administrative

180,795

157,999

116,879

Amortization of other intangibles

37,639

47,011

13,857

Operating income

188,173

184,694

157,986

Other income (expense)

Interest income

6,836

3,695

3,262

Interest expense

(19,426

)

(24,324

)

(11,718

)

Other, net


(177

)


Income before
  income taxes and minority interests

176,564

163,888

150,467

Provision for
  income taxes

49,738

16,261

60,159

Income before
  minority interests

126,826

147,627

90,308

Minority
  interests

(1,605

)

(1,838

)

(1,577

)

Income from
  continuing operations

125,221

145,789

88,731

Income (loss)
  from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

1,061

Net income (loss)

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

$

89,792

Earnings (loss) per
  common share

Basic:

Continuing operations

$

1.82

$

2.09

$

1.79

Discontinued operations

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

Net income

$

(0.81

)

$

2.04

$

1.81

Diluted:

Continuing operations

$

1.79

$

2.02

$

1.65

Discontinued operations

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

Net income

$

(0.80

)

$

1.96

$

1.68

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

December 30,


December 31,


Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash
  equivalents

$

175,380

$

114,821

Trade receivables, net

202,658

171,259

Inventories

72,362

65,128

Other current assets

44,363

26,858

Current assets of
  discontinued operations

6,330

41,256

Total current assets

501,093

419,322

Property, plant and
  equipment, net

534,745

387,501

Goodwill, net

1,119,309

1,097,590

Other intangibles, net

160,204

175,021

Deferred tax asset

107,498

68,046

Other assets

133,944

34,709

Long term assets of
  discontinued operations


356,020

Total assets

$

2,557,544

$

2,538,209

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity

Current liabilities

Current portion of
  long-term debt and capital lease obligations

$

24,977

$

36,263

Accounts payable

28,223

28,727

Accrued compensation

41,651

38,238

Deferred revenue

93,197

95,564

Accrued liabilities

41,991

38,625

Other current
  liabilities

25,625

43,581

Current liabilities of
  discontinued operations

3,667

30,414

Total current
  liabilities

259,331

311,412

Long-term debt and
  capital lease obligations

547,084

259,902

Other long-term
  liabilities

146,695

116,503

Long term liabilities of
  discontinued operations

—

13,661

Total liabilities

953,110

701,478

Commitments and contingencies

Minority interests

9,223

9,718

Shareholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.01
  par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par
  value; 120,000,000 shares authorized; 73,416,303 issued and 66,919,634 shares
  outstanding at December 30, 2006 and 72,361,666 shares issued and
  71,955,491 outstanding at December 31, 2005



Capital in excess of par
  value

1,818,138

1,777,625

Accumulated earnings

23,123

78,906

Treasury stock, at cost,
  6,496,669 shares and 406,175 shares at December 30, 2006 and
  December 31, 2005, respectively

(267,955

)

(17,997

)

Unearned compensation

—

(20,785

)

Accumulated other
  comprehensive income

21,171

8,540

Total shareholders’
  equity

1,595,211

1,827,013

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$

2,557,544

$

2,538,209

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income (loss)

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

$

89,792

Less: Income
  (loss) from discontinued operations

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

1,061

Income from
  continuing operations

125,221

145,789

88,731

Adjustments to reconcile net income from continuing
  operations to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and
  amortization

82,586

87,935

42,063

Impairment charge

2,774

—

2,956

Amortization of
  debt issuance costs and discounts

2,499

2,135

1,642

Amortization of
  premiums on marketable securities




Provision for
  doubtful accounts




Minority interests

1,605

1,838

1,577

Deferred income
  taxes

4,035

(39,230

)

8,018

Loss on disposal
  of property, plant, and equipment

1,242



Non-cash
  compensation

21,090

16,974

3,815

Net purchases,
  proceeds and gains on trading securities

(6,510

)

—

—

Tax benefit from
  exercise of stock options

—

8,767

13,804

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Trade receivables

(18,961

)

(14,315

)

(8,568

)

Inventories

(6,475

)

(5,918

)

(6,103

)

Other current
  assets

(8,024

)

3,455

(3,246

)

Other assets

(11,115

)

(241

)

(1,466

)

Accounts payable

(2,586

)

2,248

(79

)

Accrued
  compensation

(414

)

(2,798

)

1,960

Deferred revenue

(2,967

)

6,159

25,342

Accrued
  liabilities

(8,493

)

(5,158

)

(6,792

)

Other current
  liabilities

(15,141

)

20,525

11,691

Other long-term
  liabilities

15,558

(11,680

)

3,287

Net cash provided
  by operating activities

175,973

216,784

180,079

Cash flows relating to investing activities

Acquisition of
  businesses, net of cash acquired

(30,862

)

(3,400

)

(571,992

)

Capital
  expenditures

(181,747

)

(94,520

)

(44,735

)

Purchases of
  marketable securities

(207,900

)

(15,580

)

(16,689

)

Proceeds from
  sales of property, plant and equipment



1,427

Proceeds from sale
  of marketable securities

122,981


32,621

Net cash used in
  investing activities

(297,398

)

(112,963

)

(599,368

)

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from
  long-term debt and revolving credit agreement

440,300

133,700

594,000

Payments on long-term
  debt, capital lease obligation and revolving credit agreement

(170,842

)

(337,305

)

(173,862

)

Purchase of call
  option

(98,110

)

—

—

Proceeds from
  exercises of warrants


1,136

—

Proceeds from
  issuance of warrants

65,423

—

—

Proceeds from
  exercises of employee stock options

22,821

25,987

26,554

Excess tax benefit
  from exercises of employee stock options

6,540

—

—

Dividends paid to
  minority interests

(1,916

)

(1,400

)

(2,112

)

Purchase of
  treasury stock

(249,958

)

(17,997

)

—

Payment of
  deferred financing costs

(8,769

)


(7,449

)

Net cash provided
  by (used in) financing activities

5,568

(195,240

)

437,131

Discontinued operations

Net cash provided
  by operating activities

(11,603

)

17,764

4,750

Net cash provided
  by (used in) investing activities

189,406

(1,030

)

(601

)

Net cash used in
  financing activities

(182

)

(182

)

(185

)

Net cash provided
  by discontinued operations

177,621

16,552

3,964

Effect of exchange
  rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(1,205

)

(17,878

)

3,429

Net change in cash
  and cash equivalents

60,559

(92,745

)

25,235

Cash and cash
  equivalents, beginning of period

114,821

207,566

182,331

Cash and
  cash equivalents, end of period

175,380

114,821

207,566

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for
  interest

$

22,992

$

21,776

$

6,994

Cash paid for
  taxes

$

93,109

$

10,074

$

36,302

Supplemental non-cash investing activities
  information

Issuance of common
  stock related to the Inveresk acquisition

—

—

841,042

Conversion of
  senior convertible debenture to common stock

$

—

$

198,020

$

—

Capitalized
  interest

$

4,107

$


$

—

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

Total

Accumulated

(Deficit)

Earnings

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess

of Par

Treasury

Stock

Unearned

Compensation

Balance
  at December 27, 2003

$

464,623

$

(152,885

)

$

9,254

$


$

609,781

$

—

$

(1,985

)

Components of
  comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

89,792

$

89,792

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency
  translation adjustment

19,960

—

19,960

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension
  liability adjustment

(1,475

)

—

(1,475

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on
  marketable securities

(46

)

—

(46

)

—

Total
  comprehensive income

108,231

—

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common
  stock related to acquisition

841,042

—

—


840,857

—

—

Fair value of
  stock option exchange related to acquisition

30,350

—

—

—

41,694

—

(11,344

)

Transaction cost
  related to acquisition

(10,122

)

—

—

—

(10,122

)

—

—

Exercise of stock
  options

26,554

—

—


26,539

—

—

Tax benefit from
  exercise of stock options

8,011

—

—

—

8,011

—

—

Issuance of
  restricted stock to employees

—

—

—

—

1,513

—

(1,513

)

Performance based
  compensation


—

—

—


—

—

Amortization of
  unearned compensation

3,235

—

—

—

—

—

3,235

Balance
  at December 25, 2004

$

1,472,505

$

(63,093

)

$

27,693

$


$

1,518,854

$

—

$

(11,607

)

Components of
  comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

141,999

$

141,999

$

$

$

$

$

Foreign currency
  translation adjustment

(19,444

)

—

(19,444

)

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension
  liability adjustment


—


—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on
  marketable securities

(40

)

—

(40

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on
  hedging activities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total
  comprehensive income

122,846

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of stock
  options

25,987

—

—


25,976

—

—

Acceleration of
  stock options

1,556

—

—

—

1,556

—

—

Tax benefit from
  exercise of stock options

7,597

—

—

—

7,597

—

—

Exercise of
  warrants

1,136

—

—


1,134

—

—

Issuance of
  restricted stock to employees

—

—

—


24,591

—

(24,596

)

Amortization of
  unearned compensation

15,418

—

—

—

—

—

15,418

Performance based
  compensation

(55

)

—

—

—

(55

)

—

—

Purchase of
  treasury shares

(17,997

)

—

—

—

—

(17,997

)

—

Conversion of
  convertible debentures

198,020

—

—


197,972

—

—

Balance
  at December 31, 2005

$

1,827,013

$

78,906

$

8,540

$


$

1,777,625

$

(17,997

)

$

(20,785

)

Components of
  comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net (loss)

$

(55,783

)

$

(55,783

)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency
  translation adjustment

12,335

—

12,335

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension
  liability adjustment

(195

)

—

(195

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on
  marketable securities


—


—

—

—

—

Total
  comprehensive income

(43,632

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Adjustment to
  initially apply SFAS No. 158, net of tax


—


—

—

—

—

Tax benefit
  associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

5,714

—

—

—

5,714

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock
  under employee compensation plans

22,821

—

—


22,811

—

—

Acquisition of
  treasury shares

(249,958

)

(249,958

)

Stock-based
  compensation

22,392

22,392

Performance based
  compensation

(526

)

(526

)

Purchase of hedge
  on convertible debt

(98,110

)

(98,110

)

Issuance of
  warrants

65,423

65,423

Deferred tax
  assets

43,515

43,515

Reversal of
  unearned compensation upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)

(20,785

)

20,785

Balance
  at December 30, 2006

$

1,595,211

$

23,123

$

21,171

$


$

1,818,138

$

(267,955

)

$

—

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description
of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of
Business

Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) is a
leading global provider of solutions that advance the drug discovery and
development process including research models and associated services, and
outsourced preclinical services which includes Phase I clinical services.
The Company’s fiscal year is the twelve-month period ending the last
Saturday in December.

Principles of
Consolidation

The consolidated financial
statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
accounts, transactions and profits are eliminated. Results for two majority-owned
subsidiaries are recorded on a one-month lag basis. There were no material
transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date and December 30,
2006.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications
have been made to prior year statements to conform to the current year
presentation. These reclassifications have no impact on period reported net
income or cash flow.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements
have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
and, as such, include amounts based on informed estimates and judgments of
management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Cash and Cash
Equivalents

Cash equivalents include
time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the
purchase date of three months or less.

Trade Receivables
and Concentrations of Credit Risk

The Company records trade
receivables net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company establishes
an allowance for doubtful accounts which it believes is adequate to cover anticipated
losses on the collection of all outstanding trade receivable balances. The
adequacy of the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information,
a review of major customer accounts, receivable balances and management’s
assessment of current economic conditions. The Company reassesses the allowance
for doubtful accounts each quarter.

The
composition of net trade receivables is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Customer
  receivables

$

156,411

$

133,436

Unbilled revenue

49,356

40,102

Total

205,767

173,538

Less allowance
  for doubtful accounts

(3,109

)

(2,279

)

Net trade
  receivables

$

202,658

$

171,259


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

Financial instruments that
potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of trade receivables from customers in the pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industries. The Company believes its exposure to credit risk to
be minimal, as these industries have experienced significant growth and the customers
are predominantly well established and viable.

Marketable Securities

The Company accounts for its investment in marketable
securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.” Investments in marketable securities are reported at fair value
and consist of corporate debt securities and government securities and
obligations which are classified as securities available for sale and mutual
funds which are classified as actively traded.

Realized gains and losses
on securities are included in earnings and are determined using the specific
identification method. Unrealized holding gains and losses on securities
classified as available for sale, are excluded from earnings and are reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. Unrealized
gains and losses on actively traded securities are included in earnings. The
amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included
in interest income.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost,
determined principally on the average cost method, or market. The determination
of market value involves assessment of numerous factors, including costs to
dispose of inventory and estimated selling price. Inventory costs for small models
are based upon the actual average cost to produce specific models and strains.
Costs for large models are accumulated in inventory by specific model. Inventory
costs for both small and large models are charged to cost of sales in the
period the models are sold. Reserves are recorded to reduce the carrying value
for inventory determined damaged, obsolete or otherwise unsaleable.

The
composition of inventories is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Raw materials and
  supplies

$

11,715

$

10,948

Work in process

6,107

5,615

Finished products

54,540

48,565

Inventories

$

72,362

$

65,128

Other Current Assets

Other current assets consist of assets the Company
intends to settle within the next twelve months.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

December 30,


December 31,


Prepaid assets

$

19,686

$

10,883

Deferred tax
  asset

10,176

3,668

Prepaid income
  tax

7,051

10,630

Marketable
  securities

7,450

1,677

Other current
  assets

$

44,363

$

26,858

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, including improvements
that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are
recorded at cost, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The
Company capitalizes interest on certain construction projects which amounted to
$4,107 in 2006 and $810 in 2005. No interest was capitalized in 2004. Depreciation
is calculated for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method
based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: buildings, 20 to
40 years; machinery and equipment, 2 to 20 years; furniture and
fixtures, 5 to 7 years; vehicles, 2 to 4 years; and leasehold
improvements, the shorter of estimated useful life or the lease periods.

The
composition of net property, plant and equipment is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Land

$

16,173

$

15,411

Buildings

339,786

307,627

Machinery and
  equipment

280,126

245,512

Leasehold
  improvements

16,248

13,611

Furniture and
  fixtures

6,790

5,400

Vehicles

4,843

4,700

Construction in
  progress

186,105

62,027

Total

850,071

654,288

Less accumulated
  depreciation

(315,326

)

(266,787

)

Net property, plant and
  equipment

$

534,745

$

387,501

Depreciation expense for
2006, 2005 and 2004 was $44,947, $40,924 and $28,206, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible
assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” which establishes financial accounting
and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS
No. 142 requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets are no longer amortized but are


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

reviewed at least annually
for impairment. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives
continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives.

The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually or
whenever events or circumstances occur as required under the provisions of SFAS
No. 142. Goodwill is considered to be impaired when the net book value of
a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. During 2005, the Company
performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and concluded there was no
impairment. As a result of the decision to divest the Phase II-IV Clinical
business in the first quarter of 2006, the Company preformed a goodwill
impairment test assuming sale of the Phase II-IV Clinical business and
recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $129,187 in discontinued operations. For
the Company’s remaining goodwill, an annual impairment test was performed for
2006. No additional goodwill impairment was recorded during 2006.

Intangible assets deemed
to have an indefinite life are tested for impairment using a one-step process
which compares the fair value to the carrying amount of the asset. The Company
completed the annual impairment tests in 2006 and 2005 and concluded there was no
impairment of identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Accounting for Investment in Life Insurance Contracts

The Company accounts for
its investments in life insurance contracts in accordance with FASB Staff
Position No. FTB 85-4,

Accounting for Life
Settlement Contracts by Third-Party Investors

using the fair value
method. Under the fair value method, the Company recognizes the initial
investment at the transaction price and remeasures the investment at fair value
each reporting period. Investments in life contracts are reported as part of
purchases of marketable securities in the statement of cash flows. At December 30,
2006, the Company held 45 contracts with a carrying value of $14,360.

Other Assets

Other assets consist of assets that the Company does
not intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other assets is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Deferred
  financing costs

$

11,120

$

4,850

Cash surrender
  value of life insurance policies

14,360

7,423

Long term
  marketable securities

103,922

18,341

Other assets

4,542

4,095

Other assets

$

133,944

$

34,709

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for
the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets,” the Company evaluates
long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may be
recognized when


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

estimated undiscounted
future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual
disposal are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, additional
analysis is performed and the carrying value of long-lived assets is reduced to
the estimated fair value, if this is lower, as determined using an appraisal or
discounted cash flows, as appropriate.

In the second quarter of
2006, taking into account the planned divestiture of the Phase II-IV
Clinical business, the Company performed an impairment test on the long-lived
assets of the Clinical Phase II-IV business. Based on this analysis, the
Company determined that the book value of assets assigned to the Clinical Phase II-IV
business exceeded its future cash flows, which included the proceeds from the
sale of the business, and therefore recorded an impairment of the assets of
$3,900.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities consist of liabilities the
Company intends to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other current liabilities is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Accrued income
  taxes

$

23,048

$

35,893

Current deferred
  tax liability

2,149

4,953

Accrued interest


2,735

Other current
  liabilities

$

25,625

$

43,581

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities consist of liabilities the
Company does not intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other long-term liabilities is as follows:

December 30,


December 31,


Deferred tax
  liability

$

56,372

$

39,645

Long-term pension
  liability

49,553

52,834

Accrued Executive
  Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

29,262

17,566

Other long-term
  liabilities

11,508

6,458

Other long-term
  liabilities

$

146,695

$

116,503

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

Prior to January 1,
2006, the Company had followed Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion 25, “Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees” and related interpretations, which resulted in
accounting for grants and awards to employees at their intrinsic value in the
consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 123(R) (“SFAS No. 123(R)”), “Accounting for Stock-


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Based
Compensation,” using the modified prospective application transition method,
which results in the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) being applied to
the consolidated financial statements on a going-forward basis. Prior periods
have not been restated. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the Company is required to
record compensation cost for all share-based payments granted after the date of
adoption based on the grant date fair value, estimated in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 123(R), and for the unvested portion of all share-based
payments previously granted that remain outstanding based on the grant date
fair value, estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123.
The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards is expensed on a
straight-line basis.

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue related to its products
and services in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,
“Revenue Recognition.”

The Company recognizes revenue related to its
products, which include research models, in
vitro technology and vaccine support products, when persuasive evidence
of an arrangement exists, generally in the form of customer purchase orders,
title and risk of loss have transferred, which occurs upon delivery of the
products, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the product
is delivered to the customer’s site. Product sales are recorded net of returns
upon delivery. For large models in some cases customers pay in advance of
delivery of the product. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue
upon delivery of the product.

The Company’s service revenue is comprised of
toxicology, pathology, laboratory, clinical Phase I trials, transgenic and
contract staffing services and is generally evidenced by customer contracts.
Toxicology services provide highly specialized studies to evaluate the safety
and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical
devices. Pathology services provide the ability to identify and characterize
pathologic changes within tissues and cells in determining the safety of a new
compound. Laboratory services monitor and analyze health and genetics of
research models used in research protocols. Clinical Phase I conducts
tolerability assessments to explore human pharmacology. Transgenic services
include validating, maintaining, breeding and testing research models for
biomedical research activities. Contract staffing services provide management
of animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and
biotechnology organizations.

The toxicology, pathology and clinical Phase I trials
services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up
to approximately 24 months in length. These agreements are negotiated for
a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a
one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic and contract
staffing services are of a longer-term nature, from six months to five years,
and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified in the contract.

The Company’s service revenues are recognized upon the
Company’s completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance
criteria are generally in the form of either study protocols or specified
activities or procedures which the Company is engaged to perform. These
performance criteria are established by the Company’s customers and do not
contain acceptance provisions which are based upon the achievement of certain
study or laboratory testing results. Revenue of agreed upon rate contracts is
recognized as services are performed, based upon rates specified in the
contract. Revenue of fixed fee


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

contracts is recognized as
services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete procedures
specified by customers in the form of study protocols.

Deferred and unbilled
revenue is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. In some cases, a
portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These
advances are deferred and recognized as revenue as services are performed. Revenue
is recognized on unbilled services and relate to amounts that are currently
unbillable to the customer pursuant to contractual terms. In general, such amounts
become billable in accordance with predetermined payment schedules, but
recognized as revenue as services are performed.

Guarantees

The Company includes
standard indemnification provisions in its customer contracts, which include
standard provisions limiting the Company’s liability under such contracts,
including the Company’s indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company follows the
requirements of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” which establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts and used for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether
designed for hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a fair value
hedge, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and changes in the fair
value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in
earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective
portion of the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in
other comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of operations
when the hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective portions of both fair
value and cash flow hedges are immediately recognized as earnings.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of
the Company’s significant financial instruments, which include cash
equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and accounts payable,
approximate their fair values at December 30, 2006 and December 31,
2005. The fair value of the Company’s financing instruments was $572,054 and
$296,090 based on market rates at December 30, 2006 and December 31,
2005, respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” The asset and liability approach underlying SFAS No. 109 requires
the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future
tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax
basis of the Company’s assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is
provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items
will expire before the Company is able to realize their benefits or that their
future deductibility is uncertain.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currencies
of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are in local currency. In accordance with
SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation,” the financial statements of
these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and
liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income, expenses and cash flows at
average exchange rates; and shareholders’ equity at historical exchange rates.
The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet. Exchange gains
and losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded as other income or
expense. The Company recorded an exchange loss of $449 in 2006 and $1,015 in
2005 and $418 in 2004.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for
comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, “Reporting
Comprehensive Income.” As it relates to the Company, comprehensive income is
defined as net income plus the sum of the changes in unrealized gains (losses)
on available-for-sale marketable securities, unrealized gains (losses) on
hedging activities, foreign currency translation adjustments and minimum
pension liability adjustments (collectively, other comprehensive income) and is
presented in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity,
net of tax.

Pension Obligations

The Company recognizes obligations associated with its
defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, “Employers
Accounting for Pensions.”  Assets,
liabilities and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As
required by SFAS No. 87, the Company is required to make certain
assumptions to value the plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions are
reviewed annually, or whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on
reviews of current plan information and consultations with independent
investment advisors and actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high
degree of judgment and may materially change from period to period. The Company
does not offer other defined benefits associated with post-retirement benefit
plans other than pensions.

The Company adopted the
recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” as of December 30,
2006. This statement requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to
recognize the funded status of a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize
gains, losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period
that are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as a
component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax; measure
defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employer’s
fiscal year-end balance sheet; and disclose in the notes to financial
statements additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit
cost for the next fiscal year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains
or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or obligation.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business
and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Restructuring Costs

The Company recognizes
obligations associated with restructuring activities in accordance with SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,” which
generally requires a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal
activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period
in which the liability is incurred. The overall purpose of the Company’s
restructuring actions is to lower overall operating costs and improve
profitability by reducing excess capacities. Restructuring charges are
typically recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the
period in which the plan is approved by the Company’s senior management and,
where material, the Company’s Board of Directors, and when the liability is
incurred.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share
are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share are calculated by
adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include
the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the
dilutive potential common shares had been issued.

Discontinued Operations

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the results of
discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes (benefit), are reported
as a separate component in the accompanying statement of income for the current
and prior periods. In addition, assets and liabilities of discontinued
businesses have been reclassified in the balance sheets of periods ended prior
to 2006. The statement of cash flows also reflects separate disclosure of cash
flows pertaining to discontinued operations consistently for all periods
presented.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.   Description of
Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

New Accounting Pronouncements

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,
Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”).
SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets
out framework for measuring fair value and expands on required disclosures
about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for the Company on January 1,
2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of SFAS 157 are not
expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
statements.

The Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87,
88, 106, and 132(R)” as of December 30, 2006. This statement requires
employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the funded status of
a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains, losses and prior service
costs or credits that arise during the period that are not recognized as
components of net periodic benefit cost as a component of other accumulated
comprehensive income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and
obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end balance sheet; and
disclose in the notes to financial statements additional information about
certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that
arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or
credits, and transition asset or obligation.

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 (SAB 108). Due
to diversity in practice among registrants, SAB 108 expresses SEC staff
views regarding the process by which misstatements in financial statements are
evaluated for purposes of determining whether financial statement restatement
is necessary. SAB 108 is effective for fiscal years ending after November 15,
2006, and early application is encouraged. The Company has applied the
provisions of SAB 108 in the third quarter of 2006 which had a positive impact
of $0.01 on the Company’s earnings per share in the statement of operations.

The Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) has issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FAS No. 109 (FIN 48),
which clarifies

the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Currently, the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes is subject to significant and varied
interpretations that have resulted in diverse and inconsistent accounting
practices and measurements. Addressing such diversity, FIN 48 prescribes
a consistent recognition threshold and measurement attribute, as well as clear
criteria for subsequently recognizing, derecognizing and measuring changes in
such tax positions for financial statement purposes. FIN 48 also requires
expanded disclosure with respect to the uncertainty in income taxes. FIN 48 is
effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2006. The Company has  evaluated the interpretation and has
determined the impact of FIN 48 will not have a significant impact on its
consolidated financial results.

2.   Discontinued
Operations

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company
initiated actions to sell Phase II-IV of the Clinical business. On May 9,
2006, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to sell
Phase II-IV of the Clinical Services business for $215,000 in cash as part of a
portfolio realignment which would allow the Company to capitalize on core
competencies. Accordingly, management performed a goodwill impairment test for
the Clinical business segment assuming sale of the Phase II-IV business. To


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2.   Discontinued
Operations

(Continued)

determine the fair value
of this segment, the Company used a combination of discounted cash flow
methodology for the Phase I Clinical business and expected selling price for
the Phase II-IV Clinical business. Based on this analysis, it was determined
that the book carrying value of goodwill assigned to the Clinical business
reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and therefore a $129,187 charge
was recorded in 2006 to write-down the value of this goodwill. No additional
goodwill impairment was recorded during 2006. Goodwill will continue to be
re-evaluated for impairment annually, as well as when events or circumstances
occur.

In addition, taking into account the planned
divestiture of the Phase II-IV Clinical business, the Company performed an
impairment test on the long-lived assets of the Clinical Phase II-IV business.
Based on this analysis, the Company determined that the book value of assets
assigned to the Clinical Phase II-IV business exceeded its future cash flows,
which included the proceeds from the sale of the business, and therefore
recorded an impairment of the assets of $3,900 during 2006.

During 2006, the Company also made a decision to close
its Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS) business, which was formerly
included in the Preclinical Services segment. The Company performed an
impairment test on the long-lived assets of the ISS business and based on that
analysis, it was determined that the book value of the ISS assets exceeded the
future cash flows of the business. Accordingly, the Company recorded an
impairment charge of $1,070 during 2006.

For the year end December 30, 2006, the
discontinued businesses recorded a loss from operations of $181,004 which
included a $546 loss from the sale of the Phase II-IV Clinical business. As a
direct result of the sale, the Company realized a significant tax gain
resulting in additional tax expense of $37,835, all of which has been paid by
the end of fiscal year 2006.

The
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to segregate, as
discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities, operating results and cash
flows, of the businesses being discontinued for all periods presented.
Operating results from discontinued operations are as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Net sales

$

73,658

$

128,900

$

42,695

Income (loss)
  from operations of discontinued businesses, before income taxes

(145,613

)

(3,475

)

2,058

Provision for
  income taxes

35,391



Income (loss) from
  operations of discontinued businesses, net of taxes

$

(181,004

)

$

(3,790

)

$

1,061


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2.   Discontinued
Operations (Continued)

Assets and liabilities of
discontinued operations at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005
consisted of the following:

December 30,


December 31,


Current assets

$

6,330

$

41,256

Long-term assets


356,020

Total assets

$

7,081

$

397,276

Current
  liabilities

$

3,667

$

30,414

Long-term
  liabilities

—

13,661

Total liabilities

$

3,667

$

44,075

Current assets included
accounts receivable, prepaid income taxes, deferred income taxes and other
current assets. Non-current assets included property, plant and equipment,
goodwill and other intangible assets and deferred income taxes. Current
liabilities consisted of accounts payable, deferred income and accrued
expenses. Non-current liabilities consisted of lease obligations and deferred
tax liabilities.

3.

Business
Acquisitions

The Company acquired several businesses during the
three-year period ended December 30, 2006. The results of operations of
the acquired businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the
following:

On October 30, 2006, the Company acquired all of
the capital stock of privately held Tacoma, Washington based Northwest Kinetics
for $29,500 in cash. Northwest Kinetics runs clinical trials, primarily in
Phase I, in a 150 bed facility with a focus on high end clinical pharmacology
studies.

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the Northwest Kinetics
acquisition, including transaction costs of $265 incurred by the Company and
net of $812 of cash acquired, is as follows:

Current assets
  (excluding cash)

$

6,741

Property, plant
  and equipment

2,983

Non-current
  assets


Current
  liabilities

(6,378

)

Non-current
  liabilities

(7,493

)

Goodwill and
  other intangibles acquired

32,857

Total purchase price
  allocation

$

28,810

In conjunction with the purchase of Northwest
Kinetics, the Company utilized $2,076 of available cash to pay off Northwest
Kinetics’ existing debt.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3.

Business
Acquisitions (Continued)

The breakout of goodwill
and other intangibles acquired with the Northwest Kinetics acquisition was as
follows:

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer
  relationships

$

13,700


Participant list

1,300


Non-compete
  covenants



Trademarks and
  trade names



Goodwill

17,617

—

Total goodwill and other
  intangibles

$

32,857

On October 20, 2004, the Company’s shareholders
approved the merger agreement with Inveresk Research Group (Inveresk). The
acquisition strengthened the Company’s position as a leading global provider of
essential preclinical and clinical drug development services and products. The
strategic combination significantly expanded the Company’s service portfolio
and strengthened the Company’s global footprint in the growing market for
pharmaceutical research and development products and services. Under the terms
of the merger agreement, Inveresk shareholders received 0.48 shares of the
Company’s common stock and $15.15 in cash for each share of Inveresk common
stock they owned. The purchase price of $1,458,057 consisted of $841,042
representing the fair value of the Company’s common stock of 18,451,996 shares
issued, $582,391 of cash consideration, the fair value of the Company’s stock
options exchanged for Inveresk stock options and transaction costs incurred by
the Company. The Company utilized $161,229 of available cash and $500,000 of
borrowings under its existing credit facility for the cash consideration paid
to Inveresk shareholders and to pay off Inveresk’s existing credit facility of
approximately $78,838.

The
purchase price associated with the Inveresk acquisition is as follows:

Stock consideration

$

841,042

Cash
  consideration

582,391

Fair value of
  stock options exchange

30,350

Transaction costs

4,274

Purchase price

1,458,057

Cash acquired

(41,726

)

Purchase price, net of
  cash acquired

$

1,416,331


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3.

Business Acquisitions (Continued)

The final purchase price
allocation associated with the Inveresk acquisition is as follows:

Current assets
  (excluding cash)

$

93,895

Property, plant
  and equipment

126,602

Current
  liabilities

(194,401

)

Non-current
  liabilities

(152,374

)

Goodwill and
  other intangibles acquired

1,542,609

Total purchase price
  allocation

$

1,416,331

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the Inveresk
acquisition was as follows:

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer
  relationships

$

167,700


Backlog

63,700


Trademarks and
  trade names



Goodwill

1,310,509

—

Total goodwill and other
  intangibles

$

1,542,609

On August 16, 2006, the Company completed the sale
of its Phase II-IV Clinical Services business which was part of the Inveresk
acquisition and is reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying
financial statements. See Note 2.

On January 8, 2004, the Company acquired River
Valley Farms, Inc. (RVF), a privately held medical device contract
research business. Consideration, including acquisition expenses, was $16,972,
net of cash acquired of $347. RVF was acquired to strengthen service offerings
of the Company’s Preclinical Services segment. This acquisition was recorded as
a purchase business combination in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, “Business Combinations.”

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the RVF acquisition is as
follows:

Current assets

$

2,135

Property, plant
  and equipment

5,987

Current
  liabilities

(2,828

)

Non-current
  liabilities

(2,315

)

Goodwill and
  other intangibles acquired

13,993

Consideration, net of
  cash acquired

$

16,972


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3.

Business
Acquisitions (Continued)

The breakout of goodwill
and other intangibles acquired with the RVF acquisition was as follows:

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer
  relationships

$

3,800


Goodwill

10,193

—

Total goodwill and other
  intangibles

$

13,993

On May 1, 2006, the Company completed the sale of
RVF which was part of the ISS business and is reported as discontinued
operations in the accompanying financial statements. See Note 2.

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are
presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of
the period immediately preceding the period of acquisition after giving effect
to certain adjustments including the amortization of intangibles. The pro forma
data is for informational purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the
results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods
reported. No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been
realized through the acquisitions.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Net sales

$

1,073,215

$

1,004,194

$876,862

Operating income

186,918

183,268

150,895

Income from
  continuing operations

123,325

143,780

83,860

Earnings per common
  share

Basic

$

1.79

$

2.06

$

1.30

Diluted

$

1.76

$

1.99

$

1.23

Refer to Note 8 for
further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.

4.

Impairment
and Other Charges

During 2006, the Company recorded charges of $6,205
associated with actions designed to improve operating efficiency and
profitability. In the RMS segment, the charges were $3,115 for closure of two
small vaccine facilities and a management consolidation in the Transgenic
Services business. In the PCS segment, the charges were $3,090 for headcount
reductions, primarily in the Montreal facility, and closure of a small
Interventional and Surgical Services operation in Ireland. Substantially all
amounts have been paid as of December 30, 2006.

During the fourth quarter
of 2004, the company recorded a charge of $2,956 associated with the closure of
the Charles River Proteomic Services, which was included in the Preclinical
Services segment. The charge included an asset impairment charge of $1,539, a
lease impairment of $989, severance of $41 and other related expenses of $389.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5.

Marketable
Securities

The
amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value
for marketable securities by major security type were as follows:

December 30, 2006

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate
  securities

$

96,976

$

—

$

—

$

96,976

Mutual funds

5,069


(47

)

5,123

Government
  securities and obligations

5,958


(108

)

5,904

Corporate debt
  securities

3,392


(25

)

3,369

$

111,395

$


$

(180

)

$

111,372

December 31, 2005

Amortized Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair Value

Corporate debt
  securities

$

3,320

$


$

(29

)

$

3,305

Government
  securities and obligations

16,718


(15

)

16,713

$

20,038

$


$

(44

)

$

20,018

Maturities
of corporate debt securities and government securities and obligations
classified as available for sale were as follows:

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

Due less than one
  year

$

7,416

$

7,450

$

1,687

$

1,677

Due after one
  year through five years

103,979

103,922

18,351

18,341

$

111,395

$

111,372

$

20,038

$

20,018

Marketable securities due
after one year are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6.   Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

The
following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to
amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization:

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Goodwill

$

1,132,074

$

(12,765

)

$

1,110,240

$

(12,650

)

Other intangible assets
  not subject to amortization:

Research models

3,438

—

3,438

—

Other intangible assets
  subject to amortization:

Backlog

54,734

(54,718

)

52,402

(42,568

)

Customer relationships

197,302

(47,407

)

173,759

(20,775

)

Customer contracts

1,655

(1,655

)

1,655

(1,590

)

Trademarks and trade names

3,278

(2,012

)

3,914

(2,267

)

Standard operating procedures

1,357

(1,263

)

1,349

(1,012

)

Other identifiable intangible assets

10,599

(5,104

)

10,857

(4,141

)

Total other intangible
  assets

$

272,363

$

(112,159

)

$

247,374

$

(72,353

)

The
changes in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill
are as follows:

Adjustments to Goodwill

Adjustments to Goodwill

Balance at

December 25,


Acquisitions

Other

Balance at

December 31,


Acquisitions

Other

Balance at

December 30,


Research Models and Services

Gross carrying amount

$

19,921

$

$

(2,537

)

$

17,384

$

$

(460

)

$

16,924

Accumulated amortization

(4,900

)

—


(4,722

)

—

(115

)

(4,837

)

Preclinical Services

Gross carrying amount

1,095,418

—

(2,562

)

1,092,856

17,617

4,677

1,115,150

Accumulated amortization

(7,928

)

—

—

(7,928

)

—

—

(7,928

)

Total

Gross carrying amount

$

1,115,339

$

$

(5,099

)

$

1,110,240

$

17,617

$

4,217

$

1,132,074

Accumulated
  amortization

(12,828

)

—


(12,650

)

—

(115

)

(12,765

)

Amortization expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
$37,639, $47,011 and $13,857, respectively.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6.

Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets (Continued)

Estimated amortization
expense for each of the next five fiscal years is as follows:


$

30,756


26,278


21,851


17,941


14,447

7.   Long-Term Debt
and Capital Lease Obligations

Long-Term Debt

On July 31, 2006, the Company amended and
restated its then-existing $660,000 credit agreement to reduce the current
interest rate, modify certain restrictive covenants and extend the term. The
now $428,000 credit agreement provides for a $156,000 U.S. term loan facility,
a $200,000 U.S. revolving facility, a C$57,800 term loan facility and a
C$12,000 revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary, and a GBP 6,000
revolving facility for a U.K. subsidiary. The $156,000 term loan facility
matures in 20 quarterly installments with the last installment due June 30,
2011. The $200,000 U.S. revolving facility matures on July 31, 2011 and
requires no scheduled payment before that date. Under specified circumstances,
the $200,000 U.S. revolving facility may be increased by $100,000. The Canadian
term loan is repayable in full by June 30, 2011 and requires no scheduled
prepayment before that date. The Canadian and UK revolving facilities mature on
July 31, 2011 and require no scheduled prepayment before that date. The
interest rate applicable to the Canadian term loan and the Canadian and U.K.
revolving loans under the credit agreement is the adjusted LIBOR rate in its
relevant currency plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company’s leverage
ratio. The interest rates applicable to term loans and revolving loans under
the credit agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the base
rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus
0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon the
Company’s leverage ratio. Based on the Company’s leverage ratio, the margin
range for LIBOR based loans is 0.625% to 0.875%. The interest rate margin was
0.75% as of December 30, 2006. The Company has pledged the stock of
certain subsidiaries as well as certain U.S. assets as security for the
$428,000, credit agreement. The $428,000 credit agreement includes certain
customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants
and events of default. The Company had $5,388 and $4,988 outstanding under
letters of credit as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005,
respectively.

As of December 30, 2006, there was no outstanding
balance on the revolving facility.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7.

Long-Term
Debt and Capital Lease Obligations

(Continued)

On July 27, 2005 the Company entered into a
$50,000 credit agreement ($50,000 credit agreement), which was subsequently
amended on December 20, 2005 and again on July 31, 2006 to reflect
substantially the same modifications made to the covenants in the $660,000 and
$428,000 credit agreements respectively. The $50,000 credit agreement provides
for a $50,000 term loan facility which matures on July 27, 2007 and can be
extended for an additional 7 years. The interest rates applicable to term loans
under the credit agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the
base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus
0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. The $50,000 credit agreement includes
certain customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative
covenants and events of default. If the Company chooses to extend the term loan
for an additional 7 years, the applicable interest rates after the extension date
are equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the
federal funds rate plus 0.50%) plus 0.25% or the LIBOR rate plus 1.25%.

As of December 30, 2006, the entire balance of
the $50,000 credit agreement was outstanding.

On June 12, 2006, the Company issued $300,000
aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes (the 2013 Notes) in a
private placement with net proceeds to the Company of approximately $294,000.
On June 20, 2006, the initial purchasers associated with this convertible
debt offering exercised an option to purchase an additional $50,000 of the 2013
Notes for additional net proceeds to the Company of approximately $49,000. The
2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature
on June 15, 2013. The 2013 Notes are convertible into cash and shares of
the Company’s common stock (or, at the Company’s election, cash in lieu of some
or all of such common stock), if any, based on an initial conversion rate,
subject to adjustment, of 20.4337 shares of the Company’s common stock per
$1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion
price of $48.94 per share), only in the following circumstances and to the
following extent: (i) during any fiscal quarter beginning after July 1,
2006 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of
the Company’s common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30
consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the 
immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 130% of the conversion price
on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter; (ii) during the five
business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period, or the
measurement period, in which the trading price per note for each day of that
measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale
price of the Company’s common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (iii) upon
the occurrence of specified corporate transactions, as described in the indenture
for the 2013 Notes; and (iv) at the option of the holder at any time
beginning on the date that is two months prior to the stated maturity date and
ending on the close of business on the second trading-day immediately preceding
the maturity date. Upon conversion, the Company will pay cash and shares of its
common stock (or, at its election, cash in lieu of some or all of such common
stock), if any. As of December 30, 2006, no conversion triggers were met. If
the Company undergoes a fundamental change as described in the indenture for
the 2013 Notes, holders will have the option to require the Company to purchase
all or any portion of their notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the
principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid
interest, including any additional interest to, but excluding, the purchase
date. The related debt issuance costs of $7.0 million were deferred and are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over a seven-year term.

Concurrently with the sale of the 2013 Notes, the
Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its
obligation to deliver common stock under the notes. The convertible note


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7.

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations (Continued)

hedges give the Company
the right to receive, for no additional consideration, the number of shares of
common stock that it is obligated to deliver upon conversion of the notes
(subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially identical to those in the
2013 Notes), and expire on June 15, 2013. The aggregate cost of these
convertible note hedges was $98,293.

Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the
2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of
its common stock. The warrants give the holders the right to receive, for no
additional consideration, cash or shares (at the option of the Company) with a
value equal to the appreciation in the price of the Company’s shares above
$59.925, and expire between September 13, 2013 and January 22, 2014
over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants
was $65,423.

In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue (“EITF”)
No. 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock” (“EITF No. 00-19”),
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities” and SFAS No. 150, “Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity,” the Company recorded both
the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants as
adjustments to additional paid in capital, and will not recognize subsequent
changes in fair value of the agreement. At December 30, 2006, the fair
value of the outstanding 2013 Notes was approximately $380,450, based on their
quoted market value.

Long-term
debt consists of the following:

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Senior
  convertible debentures

$

350,000

$

—

$

185,000

Term loan
  facilities

221,274

295,885

400,000

Revolving credit
  facility

—

—

100,000

Other long-term
  debt, represents secured and unsecured promissory notes, interest rates
  between 0% and 11.6% at December 30, 2006, maturing between 2007 and




Total debt

572,054

296,090

685,844

Less: current
  portion of long-term debt

(24,970

)

(36,195

)

(80,456

)

Long-term debt

$

547,084

$

259,895

$

605,388

Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 30, 2006 are
as follows:

Fiscal Year


$

24,970


34,544


34,544


34,544


58,448

Thereafter

385,004

Total

$

572,054


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7.

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations (Continued)

Capital Leases

The Company has one capital lease for a building and
numerous capital leases for equipment. These leases are capitalized using
interest rates considered appropriate at the inception of each lease. Assets
recorded in connection with these capital leases are not material.

Capital lease obligations
amounted to $7 and $75 at December 31, 2006 and December 25, 2005,
respectively at interest rates ranging from 4.6% to 16.5%.

8.

Shareholders’
Equity

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share for 2006, 2005 and 2004 was
computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for these
periods by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding in the
respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable shares. The weighted
average number of common shares outstanding for 2006, 2005 and 2004 have been
adjusted to include common stock equivalents for the purpose of calculating
diluted earnings per share for these periods.

Options to purchase 2,972,420 shares, 2,027,666 shares
and 113,800 shares were outstanding at December 30, 2006, December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively, but were not included in
computing diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been
anti-dilutive.

Basic weighted average shares outstanding for 2005 and
2004 excluded the weighted average impact of 20,000 shares of contingently
issuable shares. In addition, weighted average shares outstanding for 2006,
2005 and 2004 excluded the weighted average impact of 653,780, 544,863 and
64,241 shares, respectively, of non-vested fixed restricted stock awards.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

The following table
illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the
computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share:

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Numerator:

Income from
  continuing operations for purposes of calculating earnings per share

$

125,221

$

145,789

$

88,730

After-tax equivalent
  of interest expense on 3.5% senior convertible debentures

—

1,208

4,125

Income from
  continuing operations for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share

125,221

146,997

92,855

Income (loss)
  from discontinued businesses

$

(181,004

)

$

(3,790

)

$

1,061

Denominator:

Weighted average
  shares outstanding—Basic

68,945,622

69,730,056

49,601,021

Effect of dilutive
  securities:

3.5% senior convertible debentures

—

1,462,474

4,759,455

Stock options and contingently issued restricted
  stock

867,204

1,424,740

1,346,665

Warrants

135,206

285,115

338,707

Weighted average
  shares outstanding—Diluted

69,948,032

72,902,385

56,045,848

Basic earnings
  per share from continuing operations

$

1.82

$

2.09

$

1.79

Basic earnings
  (loss) per share from discontinued operations

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

Diluted earnings
  per share from continuing operations

$

1.79

$

2.02

$

1.65

Diluted earnings (loss)
  per share from discontinued operations

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

The sum of the earnings
per share from continuing operations and the earnings (loss) per share from
discontinued operations does not necessarily equal the earnings (loss) per
share from net income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations
due to rounding.

Treasury Shares

On July 27, 2005, the Board of Directors
authorized a share repurchase program to acquire up to $50,000 of common stock.
On October 26, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized increasing the
share repurchase program by $50,000 to a total of $100,000. On May 9,
2006, the Board of Directors authorized an additional increase of the Company’s
share repurchase program by $200,000 to acquire up to a total of $300,000 of
common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date.

In order to facilitate these share repurchases, the
Company entered into two Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plans. During 2006 and
2005, the Company repurchased 518,800 shares of common stock for $23,322 and
396,000 shares of common stock for $17,485, respectively, under these plans.

In addition, concurrent with the sale of the
2013 Notes, the Company used $148,866 of the net proceeds for the purchase of
3,726,300 shares of its common stock.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

During 2006 the Company also entered into an
Accelerated Stock Repurchase (ASR) program with a third-party investment bank.
In connection with this ASR program, the Company purchased 1,787,706 shares
of stock at a cost of $75,000. In conjunction with the ASR, the Company also
entered into a cashless collar with a forward floor price of $37.9576 per share
of the Company’s common stock (95% of the initial price of $39.9554, the market
price of the Company’s common stock on August 23, 2006) and a forward cap
price of $41.9532 per share of the Company’s common stock (105% of the initial
price). The final number of shares repurchased under the ASR program was
determined by taking the average volume weighted average price of the Company’s
common stock for 65 trading days starting on August 23, 2006. Since the
final share price of $42.6503 was above the cap price of $41.9532, there was no
adjustment to the final number of shares repurchased.

As of December 30, 2006, approximately $35,312
remains authorized for share repurchases.

Share
repurchases during 2006 and 2005 were as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


Number of shares
  of common stock repurchased

6,032,806

396,000

Total cost of repurchase

$

247,203

$

17,485

Additionally, the Company’s 2000 Incentive Plan
permits the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards in
order to satisfy individual tax withholding requirements. During the fiscal
year ended December 30, 2006 and December 25, 2005, the Company
acquired 57,688 shares for $2,755 and 10,175 shares for $512,
respectively, as a result of such withholdings.

The timing and amount of
any future repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate considerations.

Retained Earnings

Retained earnings includes
approximately $2,000 which is restricted due to statutory requirements in the
local jurisdiction of a foreign subsidiary as of December 30, 2006 and December 31,
2005.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The
composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Foreign

Currency

Translation

Adjustment

Minimum

Pension

Liability

Adjustment

Pension

Gains/(Losses)

and Prior

Service

(Cost)/Credit

Not Yet

Recognized as

Components of

Net Periodic

Benefit Costs

Pursuant to

SFAS No. 158

Net Unrealized

Gain on

Investment

Securities

Net Unrealized

Gain on Hedging

Activities

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Balance at
  December 25, 2004

$

31,212

$

(3,545

)

$

—

$


$

—

$

27,693

Period change

(20,283

)


—

(51

)

—

(19,862

)

Tax benefit


(141

)

—


—


Balance at
  December 31, 2005

11,768

(3,214

)

—

(14

)

—

8,540

Period change

13,167

5,360

(7,792

)


—

10,750

Tax benefit

(832

)

(2,146

)

4,863

(4

)

—

1,881

Balance at
  December 30, 2006

$

24,103

$

—

$

(2,929

)

$

(3

)

$

—

$

21,171

Warrants

Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the
2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of
its common stock. The warrants give the holders the right to receive, for no
additional consideration, cash or shares (at the option of the Company) with a
value equal to the appreciation in the price of the Company’s shares above
$59.925, and expire between September 13, 2013 and January 22, 2014
over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants
was $65,423.

As part of the
recapitalization in 1999, the Company issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a
$1,000 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.6 shares of
common stock of the Company for total proceeds of $150,000. The Company
allocated the $150,000 offering proceeds between the senior subordinated notes
($147,872) and the warrants ($2,128), based upon the estimated fair value. The
portion of the proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital in
excess of par in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each
warrant entitles the holder, subject to certain conditions, to purchase 7.6
shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $5.19 per share
of common stock, subject to adjustment under some circumstances. Upon exercise,
the holders of warrants would be entitled to purchase 149,910 and 165,110
shares of common stock of the Company as of December 30, 2006 and December 31,
2005, respectively. The warrants expire on October 1, 2009.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

Accelerated Vesting

On December 7, 2005, the Company accelerated the
vesting of 724,000 outstanding options granted to certain employees on February 13,
2004 to purchase common stock at an exercise price $43.07. As a result of the
acceleration, the Company recorded a charge of $1,556 based on the closing
price of the Company’s stock.

As a result of the
accelerated vesting in advance of the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R),
Charles River reduced the pre-tax stock option expense it would otherwise have
been required to record.

9.

Income
Taxes

An
analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests
and earnings from equity investments and the related provision for income taxes
is presented below:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Income before income taxes,
  minority interests and earnings from equity investments

U.S.

$

90,598

$

96,647

$

102,099

Non-U.S.

85,966

67,241

48,368

$

176,564

$

163,888

$

150,467

Income
  tax provision

Current:

Federal

$

22,626

$

36,312

$

26,715

Foreign

10,895

17,495

21,725

State and local

5,501

3,000

5,314

Total current

39,022

56,807

53,754

Deferred:

Federal

10,595

(32,886

)

13,651

Foreign


(3,403

)

(8,521

)

State and local


(4,257

)

1,275

Total deferred

10,716

(40,546

)

6,405

$

49,738

$

16,261

$

60,159


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.

Income Taxes (Continued)

Net deferred taxes,
detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the
amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes and
such amounts measured in accordance with tax laws.

December 30,


December 31,


Compensation related

$

38,662

$

27,497

Accruals


1,788

Financing related

37,050

—

Goodwill and other
  intangibles

(4,906

)

(3,442

)

Net operating loss and
  credit carryforwards

20,359

27,924

Depreciation and amortization

(31,563

)

(27,993

)

Non-indefinitely
  reinvested earning

—

—

Deferred Income


—

Other

(1,762

)

2,020

59,154

27,794

Valuation
  allowance

—

(678

)

Total deferred taxes

$

59,154

$

27,116

Reconciliations
of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as
follows:

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Tax at statutory
  U.S. tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Foreign tax rate
  differences

(3.4

)%

(1.7

)%

(1.8

)%

State income
  taxes, net of federal tax benefit

1.9

%

1.3

%

2.7

%

Change in
  valuation allowance

(0.2

)%

(1.1

)%

(1.4

)%

Net impact of
  repatriation, reorganization and change in assertion


%

(17.2

)%

0.0

%

Research tax
  credits and enhanced deductions

(6.4

)%

(7.3

)%

(0.8

)%

Write off of
  other deferred tax assets and liabilities.

0.0

%

0.6

%

5.1

%

Other

1.3

%

0.3

%

1.2

%

28.2

%

9.9

%

40.0

%

On June 12, 2006, the Company issued $300,000
aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes (“the 2013 Notes”) in a
private placement with net proceeds to the Company of approximately $294,000.
On June 20, 2006, the initial purchasers associated with this convertible
debt offering exercised an option to purchase an additional $50,000 of the 2013
Notes for additional net proceeds to the Company of approximately $49,000. The
2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature
on June 15, 2013. Concurrently with the sale of the 2013 Notes, the
Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its
obligation to deliver common stock under the notes. Separately and concurrently
with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for
approximately 7.2 million shares of its common stock. The Company has elected
to apply the rules of the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.

Income Taxes (Continued)

Integration Regulations
under Treas. Reg. 1.1275-6 to treat the 2013 Notes and the associated
hedge as synthetic debt instruments and accordingly is deducting the option
premium paid for the hedge as original issue discount over the 7 year term. The
cash tax benefit of this deduction is recorded to additional paid in capital. A
deferred tax asset has been recorded to reflect the future cash tax benefit of
the deductions over the term of the 2013 Notes. Also, pursuant to Internal Revenue
Code Section 1032, the Company will not recognize any gain or loss for tax
purpose with respect to the exercise or lapse of the warrants.

Also in the second quarter of 2006, the Company
revalued certain of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the enactment
of a Canadian federal income tax rate reduction resulting in a tax benefit of
$2,114.

During 2006, the Company also recorded a reduction to
income taxes payable for $6,741 from the exercise of stock options. The benefit
of this reduction has been recorded to additional paid in capital for $5,714
and goodwill for $1,027.

As of December 30, 2006, the Company has non-U.S.
net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $5,705 which may be carried
forward indefinitely. The Company has U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of
$5,328 which will begin to expire in 2014. The Company has Canadian Investment
Tax Credit Carryforwards of $8,446 as a result of its research and development
activity in Montreal, which begin to expire in 2015.

The Company has fully recognized its deferred tax
assets on the belief that it is more likely than not they will be realized.
This belief is based on all available evidence including historical operating
results, projections of taxable income and tax planning strategies.

The Company conducts business operations in a number
of tax jurisdictions. As a result, the Company is subject to tax audits on a
regular basis including, but not limited to, current examinations by the
Internal Revenue Service in the United States and Canada Revenue Agency. The
Company has recorded tax reserves which are attributable to potential tax
obligations around the world. The Company believes these reserves are necessary
to adequately reflect global tax liabilities which may arise out of current and
future audits.

As of December 30, 2006, earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $215,925. No
provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of
those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be
subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign
countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that
might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation
No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of
FASB Statement No. 109” (“FIN48”), which will become effective for the
Company on January 1, 2007.

The Company will adopt FIN 48 as of January 1,
2007, as required. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 will be recorded as
a change to opening retained earnings in the first quarter of 2007. The Company
expects that the adoption of FIN 48 will not have a significant impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations and effective
tax rate.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.

Income Taxes (Continued)

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
repatriated $148,027 of its accumulated foreign earnings in a distribution that
qualified under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”). The
distribution was primarily from the pre-acquisition foreign earnings of
Inveresk. The Company provided for income taxes on substantially all of
Inveresk’s unremitted foreign earnings at the time of the Inveresk acquisition
based on the tax rates in effect at date of the acquisition. As a result, the
Company recorded a tax benefit of $24,060 from the impact of the change in tax
law on the $148,027 distribution. As part of its plan of distribution, the Company
restructured its UK operations in order to distribute the funds in the most tax
efficient manner and incurred a non-cash charge of $23,110 related to an
increase in the deferred tax liability on the remaining undistributed earnings
of Inveresk. In addition, the Company incurred an additional tax of $1,883 on
the write-off of deferred tax assets.

Also during the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
changed its assertion with respect to the remaining unremitted pre-acquisition
earnings of Inveresk in order to fund the expansion of the Company’s
preclinical facilities and an increased UK pension funding requirement. These
earnings and the earnings distributed under the AJCA were previously not
considered permanently reinvested. The Company recorded a non-cash benefit from
the change in assertion of $29,204.

During the second quarter of 2005, the Company
realized a tax benefit of $14,497 when it converted all of its $185,000 3.5%
senior convertible debentures. Also in 2005, the Company also recorded a
reduction to income taxes payable for $7,600 from the exercise of stock
options. The benefit from both of these items has been recorded to additional
paid in capital.

During 2004, the Company
reorganized its European operations. The purpose of the reorganization was to
streamline the legal entity structure in order to improve operating efficiency
and cash management, facilitate acquisitions and provide tax benefits. The
reorganization, which did not involve reductions of personnel or facility
closures, resulted in a one-time, non-cash charge to earnings in the first
quarter of 2004 of $7,900 due primarily to the write-off of a deferred tax
asset. In conjunction with the restructuring of its European operations, the
Company recorded a tax benefit of $2,111 on the reduction of a valuation
allowance on its foreign tax credits.

10.

Employee
Benefits

Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan

The Company’s defined
contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan,
qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. It
covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby the
Company matches a percentage of employee contributions. The costs associated
with this defined contribution plan totaled $3,439, $3,316 and $2,986, in 2006,
2005, and 2004, respectively.

Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan
and Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

On February 8, 2006, the Company established the
Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (Deferred Compensation
Plan) for select eligible employees, including its Named Executive Officers.
Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, participants may elect to defer bonus and


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee Benefits (Continued)

salary amounts, and may
select the investment returns to be applied to deferred amounts from among a number
of reference mutual funds as well as an interest crediting rate. The plan is
not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and
is not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. At the
present time, no Company contributions will be credited to the plan, except as
set forth below. Participants must specify the distribution date for deferred
amounts at the time of deferral, in accordance with applicable IRS regulations.
Generally, amounts may be paid in lump sum or installments upon retirement or
termination of employment, or later if the employee terminates employment after
age 55 and before age 65. Amounts may also be distributed during employment,
subject to a minimum deferral requirement of three years.

In addition to the Deferred Compensation Plan, certain
officers and key employees of the Company also participate, or in the past
participated, in the Company’s amended and restated Executive Supplemental Life
Insurance Retirement Plan (ESLIRP) which is a non-funded, non-qualified
arrangement. Annual benefits under this plan will equal a percentage of the
highest five consecutive years of compensation, offset by amounts payable under
the Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan and Social Security.

In connection with the establishment of the Deferred
Compensation Plan, current active employees who agreed to convert their ESLIRP
benefit to a comparable benefit in the deferred compensation plan discontinued
their direct participation in the ESLIRP. Instead, the present value of the
accrued benefits of ESLIRP participants was credited to their Deferred
Compensation Plan accounts, and future ESLIRP accruals will now be converted to
present values and credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan accounts annually.
Upon the adoption of the Deferred Compensation Plan, the value of their accrued
ESLIRP benefits, prior to adjustments for outstanding Medicare taxes, were
credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan account. In addition, the Company
provides certain active employees an annual contribution into their Deferred
Compensation Plan account of 10% of the employee’s base salary plus the lesser
of their target annual bonus or actual annual bonus. The costs associated with
these defined contribution plans totaled $4,029 in 2006.

The Company has invested in several corporate-owned
key-person life insurance policies as well as mutual funds and U.S. Treasury
Securities with the intention of using these investments to fund the ESLIRP and
the Deferred Compensation Plan. Participants have no interest in any such
investments. At December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 the cash
surrender value of these life insurance policies were $14,360 and $7,423,
respectively. Additionally, at December 30, 2006, mutual fund and U.S. Treasury
Securities investments totaled $6,510.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10. Employee Benefits
(Continued)

Pension Plans

The Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan
(Pension Plan), is a qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plan that
covers certain U.S. employees. Benefits are based on participants’ final
average monthly compensation and years of service. Participants’ rights vest
upon completion of five years of service. Effective January 1, 2002, the
plan was amended to exclude new participants from joining the plan. Benefit
criteria offered to existing participants as of the amendment date did not
change.

The defined benefit pension plans for Japan and our
Canadian RMS operation are non-contributory plans that cover substantially all
employees of those respective companies. Benefits are based upon length of
service and final salary. In addition, our French RMS operation has a defined
benefit statutory indemnity plan covering most of its employees.

In connection with the Inveresk acquisition on October 20,
2004, the Company assumed a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit
pension plan covering certain employees. Contributions under the defined
contribution plan are determined as a percentage of gross salary. As a result
of the sale of Phase II-IV of the Clinical business, this plan realized a
curtailment of $1,466 during 2006 associated with those employees who
participated in this plan and whose employment with the Company was terminated
in connection with the sale.

The Company adopted the
recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB
Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” as of December 30, 2006. This
statement requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize
the funded status of a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains,
losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period that are
not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as a component of
other comprehensive income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and
obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year-end balance sheet; and
disclose in the notes to financial statements additional information about
certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that
arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or
credits, and transition asset or obligation. Retrospective application is not
permitted. The following tables summarize the funded status of the Company’s
defined benefit plans and amounts reflected in the Company’s consolidated
balance sheets in accordance with SFAS No. 158.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Change in benefit obligations

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

196,316

$

19,439

Service cost

6,426


Interest cost

9,921

1,527

Plan participants’ contributions


—

Curtailment


—

Benefit payments

(3,569

)

(575

)

Actuarial loss (gain)

(972

)

2,091

Plan amendments

(54

)

5,941

Effect of foreign exchange

3,822

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

212,998

$

29,262

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

143,409

$

—

Plan assets assumed


—

Actual return on plan assets

13,893

—

Employer contributions

8,408


Plan participants’ contributions


—

Benefit payments

(3,570

)

(575

)

Premiums paid

(240

)

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

163,445

$

—

Funded status

Projected benefit obligation

$

212,998

$

29,262

Fair value of plan assets

163,445

—

Net balance sheet liability at December 30,

$

49,553

$

29,262

Classification of net balance
  sheet liability at December 30, 2006

Non-current liabilities

$

49,553

$

29,262

The accumulated
  benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans

$

194,924

$

23,745


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Information for defined benefit plans with accumulated
benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Projected benefit obligation

$

203,396

$

29,261

Accumulated benefit obligation

187,861

23,745

Fair value of
  plan assets

155,604

—

Information for defined benefit plans with projected
benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Projected benefit obligation

$

212,997

$

29,261

Accumulated benefit obligation

194,924

23,745

Fair value of
  plan assets

163,446

—

Amounts recognized in statement of financial position
as part of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”)

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Net actuarial (gain)/loss

$

5,602

$

9,243

Net prior service cost/(credit)

(11,524

)

4,471

Total pre-tax

(5,922

)

13,714

Less: taxes

(586

)

5,449

Total

$

(5,336

)

$

8,265

Change in AOCI

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



AOCI at beginning of the year

$

—

$

3,214

AOCI at December 30, 2006
  prior to adoption of SFAS 158


3,318

AOCI at
  December 30, 2006 after adoption of SFAS 158

(5,336

)

8,265


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Amounts in AOCI expected to be recognized as
components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits

Amortization of net actuarial (gain)/loss

$


$


Amortization of
  net prior service cost/(credit)

1,065


Components of net periodic benefit cost

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Service cost

$

6,426

$


Interest cost

9,921

1,527

Expected return
  on plan assets

(10,013

)

—

Amortization of
  prior service cost (credit)

(547

)


Amortization of
  net loss

1,011

1,139

Net periodic
  benefit cost

6,798

4,003

Curtailment gain

(1,334

)

—

Net pension cost

$

5,464

$

4,003

Incremental effect of applying SFAS 158 on individual
line items in the statement of financial position at December 30, 2006

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits

Before

application

of SFAS 158

Adjustments

After

application

of SFAS 158

Before

application

of SFAS 158

Adjustments

After

application

of SFAS 158

Liability for benefits

$

(55,608

)

$

6,055

$(49,553

)

$

(21,080

)

$

(8,182

)

$

(29,262

)

Deferred income taxes


(628

)

(586

)


3,235

3,303

Total liabilities

$

(55,565

)

$

5,427

(50,139

)

$

(21,012

)

$

(4,947

)

$

(25,959

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

$


$

(5,427

)

$

(5,336

)

$

3,318

$

4,947

$

8,265

Total
  stockholders’ equity

$


$

(5,427

)

$

(5,336

)

$

3,318

$

4,947

$

8,265

Prior to the
adoption of SFAS No. 158

The following tables
summarize the funded status of the Company’s defined benefit plans and amounts
reflected in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with SFAS
No. 132 (revised 2003), “

Employers’
Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, an amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106” (“SFAS No. 132R”)

.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Change
  in benefit obligations

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

180,017

$

16,303

Benefit obligation assumed

5,856

—

Service cost

6,066


Interest cost

9,519

1,031

Benefit payments

(5,272

)

(533

)

Plan participants’ contributions

1,134

—

Actuarial loss (gain)

4,441

2,154

Plan amendments


—

Effect of foreign exchange

(5,590

)

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

196,316

$

19,439

Change
  in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

114,626

$

—

Actual return on plan assets

16,875

—

Employer contributions

16,583


Plan participants’ contributions

1,134

—

Benefit payments

(5,809

)

(533

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

143,409

$

—

Funded
  status

Funded status

$

(52,907

)

$

(19,439

)

Unrecognized prior-service cost

(10,544

)

(972

)

Unrecognized gain

12,183

8,323

Net amount recognized

$

(51,268

)

$

(12,088

)

Amounts recognized in the statement of financial
  position consist of:

Prepaid benefit cost

$


$

—

Accrued benefit cost

(53,807

)

(17,567

)

Intangible asset

2,260

—

Accumulated other comprehensive income

—

5,479

Net amount
  recognized

$

(51,268

)

$

(12,088

)

The accumulated benefit
obligation for all defined benefit plans was $174,814 at December 31,
2005.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Information for
defined benefit plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan
assets

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Projected benefit
  obligation

$

138,813

$

19,439

Accumulated benefit
  obligation

135,918

17,479

Fair value of plan
  assets

101,823

—

Components of net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Service cost

$

6,066

$

4,081

$


$


Interest cost

9,519

3,726

1,031


Expected return
  on plan assets

(8,335

)

(4,123

)

—

—

Amortization of
  transition obligation

—


—

—

Amortization of
  prior service cost (credit)

(133

)


(162

)

(162

)

Amortization of
  net loss





Net periodic benefit
  cost

$

7,751

$

4,052

$

2,245

$

1,535

Additional information

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits



Increase
  (decrease) in minimum liability included in other comprehensive income, net of
  tax

—

$


Assumptions

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit
obligations

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Discount rate

4.95

%

4.92

%

5.65

%

5.65

%

Rate of
  compensation increase

3.27

%

3.31

%

4.75

%

4.75

%


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net
periodic benefit cost

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Discount rate

4.95

%

5.26

%

5.59

%

5.50

%

5.75

%

6.00

%

Expected
  long-term return on plan assets

6.58

%

7.10

%

7.63

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation
  increase

3.31

%

3.31

%

4.36

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

The expected long term
rate of return on plan assets was made considering the pension plan’s asset
mix, historical returns and the expected yields on plan assets.

Plan assets

The
Company’s pension plan weighted-average asset allocations are as follows:

Target

Allocation

Pension Benefits




Equity securities


%


%


%

Fixed income


%


%


%

Other


%


%


%

Total


%


%


%

The Company’s investment objective is to obtain the
highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk. Fund
performances are compared to benchmarks including the S&P 500 Index,
Russell 1000 Index, Russell 3000 Index and Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index.
The Company’s Investment Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review plan
assets.

The Company’s plan assets
did not include any of the Company’s common stock at December 30, 2006 and
December 31, 2005.

Cash Flows

Contributions

During 2006, the Company
contributed $8,196 to its pension plans. The Company expects to contribute
$7,789 to its pension plan in 2007.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.
Employee Benefits (Continued)

Estimated future benefit payments

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits


$

3,817

$



5,692



4,194

5,484


4,537



5,046


2012–2016

37,010

28,345

11. Stock Based
Compensation

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted,
on a modified prospective basis, the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), and
related guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation
expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors
including employee stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated
fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant
date, based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a
straight-line basis over the requisite service period.

The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), using the
modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the
accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, the first day of the Company’s
fiscal year 2006. Under this transition method, stock-based compensation
expense recognized during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006
includes: stock options and restricted stock awards granted prior to, but not
yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value
estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and
stock options and restricted stock granted subsequent to January 1, 2006,
based on the grant-date fair value, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).
Under the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods are
not restated.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation

(Continued)

The estimated fair value of the Company’s stock-based
awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards’ vesting period
on a straight-line basis. The effect of the change from applying the original
provisions of SFAS 123 for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006
was as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30, 2006

Share based compensation expense before tax

$11,712

Income tax benefit

(4,384

)

Reduction to income from continuing operations

7,328

Share based compensation expense of discontinued businesses,
  net of tax


Reduction to net
  income

$

7,544

Reduction to
  earnings per share

Basic

$

0.11

Diluted

$

0.11

Effect on income
  by line item:

Cost of sales

$

4,073

Selling and administration

7,639

Share based compensation expense before tax

11,712

Income tax benefit

(4,384

)

Operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax


Reduction to net income

$

7,544

The Company estimates the fair value of stock options
using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to
estimate the fair value of stock options include the exercise price of the
award, the expected option term, the risk-free interest rate over the option’s
expected term, the expected annual dividend yield and the expected stock price
volatility. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using
the historical volatility of the Company’s common stock over the expected life
of the option. The risk free interest rate was based on the market yield for
the five year U.S. Treasury security. The expected life of options was
determined using historical option exercise activity. Management believes that
the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying
assumptions are appropriate in calculating the fair values of the Company’s
stock options granted during fiscal year 2006. Estimates of fair value are not
intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by
persons who receive equity awards.

The
fair value of stock-based awards granted during 2006 was estimated on the grant
date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Expected life (in
  years)

4.9

Expected
  volatility


%

Risk-free
  interest rate

4.8

%

Expected dividend
  yield

0.0

%

Weighted-average grant
  date fair value

$

13.91


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock Based
Compensation  (Continued)

Prior to the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted
for its stock plans under the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” (“APB No. 25”) and FASB
Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving
Stock Compensation—an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25” and provided
the required pro forma disclosures of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure”. Stock-based compensation
expense related to restricted stock granted at no cost to the employees were
reflected in net income.

The pro-forma information for the fiscal years ended December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004 was as follows:

December 31,


December 25,


Reported net
  income

$

141,999

$

89,792

Add: Stock-based
  employee compensation included in reported net income, net of tax

10,490

2,431

Less: Total stock-based
  employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all
  awards, net of tax

(29,735

)

(17,341

)

Pro forma net
  income

$

122,754

$

74,882

Reported basic
  earnings per share

$

2.04

$

1.81

Pro forma basic
  earnings per share

$

1.76

$

1.51

Reported diluted
  earnings per share

$

1.96

$

1.68

Pro forma diluted
  earnings per share

$

1.70

$

1.41

The
fair value of stock-based awards granted during the fiscal years ended December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004 was estimated using the following
weighted-average assumptions:



Expected life (in
  years)

5.0

5.0

Expected
  volatility


%


%

Risk-free
  interest rate

4.0

%

3.1

%

Expected dividend
  yield

0.0

%

0.0

%

Weighted-average grant
  date fair value

$

17.97

$

15.57

Stock Compensation
Plans

1999 Management
Incentive Plan

The 1999 Management
Incentive Plan (1999 Plan) is administered by the Company’s Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors. The 1999 Plan has a total of 1,784,384
shares authorized, of which 15,617 shares are available for grant as of December 30,
2006. Awards of 15,100 non-qualified stock options were granted under the 1999
Plan in fiscal 2005. No grants were made from this plan during fiscal 2006 and
2004. As of December 30, 2006, options to purchase 330,142 shares were
exercisable under the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation  (Continued)

Plan. Options granted pursuant to the 1999 Plan are subject to a vesting
schedule based on three distinct measures. Certain options vest solely with the
passage of time (incrementally typically over three years so long as the
optionee continues to be employed by the Company). The remainder of the options
vest over time but contain clauses providing for the acceleration of vesting
upon the achievement of certain performance targets or the occurrence of
certain liquidity events. All options currently granted expire on or before February 17,
2015. The exercise price of all options granted under the 1999 Plan is the fair
market value of the underlying common stock at the time of the grant.

2000 Incentive Plan

Effective June 5, 2000, the Board of Directors
adopted and the Company’s shareholders approved the 2000 Incentive Plan (2000
Plan), which provides for the grant of incentive and nonqualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted common stock and
other equity awards. The 2000 Plan has a total of 9,889,000 shares authorized,
of which 2,515,342 are available for grant as of December 30, 2006.

Options granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan vest
incrementally, typically over three to four years, so long as the employee
continues to be employed by the Company. All options granted under the 2000
Plan expire on or before September 1, 2016. The exercise price of all
options currently granted under the 2000 Plan is the fair value of the
underlying common stock at the time of grant. A total of 889,650, 1,194,224 and
1,416,600 stock option awards were made under the 2000 Plan in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively, of which 3,246,112 awards were exercisable as of December 30,
2006.

Under the Company’s 2000 Plan, shares of restricted
common stock of the Company may be granted at no cost to officers and key
employees. Recipients are entitled to cash dividends and to vote their
respective shares. Restrictions limit the sale or transfer of these shares
until they vest, which is typically over a three-year or four-year period. Upon
issuance of restricted stock awards under the plan, compensation expense
equivalent to the market value at the measurement date is charged to earnings
over the vesting period. In 2006, 2005 and 2004, the Company granted 350,850,
490,655 and 24,700 restricted stock awards at no cost to the recipient.
Additionally, the Company issued 30,000 performance-based restricted
stock awards at no cost to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President
during 2002. Vesting of these awards was contingent upon the achievement of
certain annual earnings per share growth targets over the vesting period. These
shares were accounted for as variable awards in accordance with then effective
APB No. 25 and its related interpretations, accordingly, the related
unearned compensation and compensation expense was adjusted based on the closing
market price of the Company’s common stock until the shares vested. As a result
of the merger with Inveresk, the earnings per share target was not obtained,
therefore, during 2004 the Company reversed $537 of previously recorded
compensation expense. During 2005, the remaining 20,000 unvested awards were
cancelled. The weighted average fair value of all restricted stock awards
issued during 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $38.73, $47.63 and $43.54, respectively.
As of December 30, 2006, a total of 653,780 restricted stock awards were
outstanding.

In 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors initiated a
new performance-based management incentive program (Mid-Term Incentive (MTI)
Program), as a carve-out from the shareholder approved 2000 Plan. The MTI
Program provided that up to a maximum of 218,000 performance units could be
granted to senior executives and certain other key employees of the Company
based on achieving financial


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation  (Continued)

performance targets for
2006. The MTI Program units, which equal the value of one share of Company
stock, were to be paid out to participating employees in the form of cash and
restricted stock. For a participant to be eligible to receive payment for 2004
MTI units, the employee had to remain employed with the Company until at least
the beginning of 2007. In February 2005, the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors determined that it would not make any future awards under
the MTI Program.

The Company had been
accruing compensation expense for the MTI Program over the period the
participating employees were required to be employed by the Company. During the
first quarter of 2006, the Company determined that the minimum performance
requirement under the MTI Program would not be achieved. During the fiscal
years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, the Company
recorded a benefit of $949 and $109, respectively, related to the MTI Program.

2000 Directors’
Stock Plan

In conjunction with the
2000 Plan, the Board of Directors adopted, and the Company’s shareholders
approved, the 2000 Directors Stock Plan (Directors Plan), which in the past
provided for the grant of both automatic and discretionary nonstatutory stock
options to non-employee directors. The Directors Plan has a total of 100,000 shares
authorized, of which 4,000 shares are available to be granted as of December 30,
2006. No stock options were awarded under this plan during 2006. There are
12,900 options exercisable under the Directors Plan as of December 30,
2006. Options granted pursuant to the Directors Plan generally vest on the
first anniversary of the date of grant. All options granted expire on or before
May 3, 2007. The exercise price of the options granted under the Directors
Plan is the fair market value of the underlying common stock at the time of
grant.

2002 Stock Option
Plan

In connection with the
Inveresk acquisition, the Company assumed Inveresk’s stock compensation plans.
Stock options of 1,439,882 and 50,000 were assumed from the Inveresk Research
Group, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan (Inveresk Stock Option Plan) and the
Inveresk Research Group, Inc. 2002 Non-employee Directors Stock Option
Plan (Inveresk Director Plan), respectively. Stock options under the Inveresk
Stock Option Plan, which provides options to employees of Inveresk, vest in
equal installments over the three years following the date of grant. At December 30,
2006, options to purchase 233,216 shares were exercisable under the plan. All
options granted expire on or before February 17, 2015. Stock options under
the Inveresk Directors Plan, which provides options to non-executive directors
of Inveresk, vest three years following the date of grant. At December 30,
2006, there were no options to purchase shares outstanding under the plan.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation  (Continued)

Stock Options

The
following table summarizes stock option activities under the 1999 Plan, the
2000 Plan, and the Directors Plan:

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

(in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Options
  outstanding as of December 27, 2003

4,526,992

$

26.13

Options assumed

1,489,882

$

19.47

Options granted

1,417,100

$

43.30

Options exercised

(1,507,421

)

$

17.62

Options canceled

(338,666

)

$

34.97

Options outstanding as of December 25, 2004

5,587,887

$

30.47

Options granted

1,335,908

$

47.66

Options exercised

(1,083,680

)

$

23.98

Options canceled

(285,775

)

$

39.95

Options outstanding as of December 31, 2005

5,554,340

$

35.39

Options granted

889,650

$

39.62

Options exercised

(766,209

)

$

29.97

Options canceled

(285,168

)

$

41.85

Options outstanding as of December 30, 2006

5,392,613

$

36.50

6.2 years

$

41,969

Options
  exercisable as of December 25, 2004

2,394,043

$

24.00

Options
  exercisable as of December 31, 2005

3,712,538

$

32.08

Options
  exercisable as of December 30, 2006

3,822,370

$

34.04

5.8 years

$

37,434

As of December 30, 2006, the unrecognized
compensation cost related to unvested stock options was $15,603 net of
estimated forfeitures. This unrecognized compensation will be recognized over
an estimated weighted average amortization period of 30.5 months.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during
the fiscal years ending December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004 was $12,557, $27,028, and 58,177, respectively, with intrinsic value
defined as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and
the grant date price. The total amount of cash received from the exercise of
these options was $22,821. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax
deductions from option exercises totaled $6,540 for the year ended December 30,
2006.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation  (Continued)

The following table
summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as of December 30,
2006:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of

Exercise Prices

Number

Outstanding

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

(In years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Options

Exercisable

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

(In years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

$00.00–$10.00

315,090

2.8

$

5.27

$

11,966

315,090

2.8

$

5.27

$

11,966

$10.01–$20.00

178,289

4.6

14.59

5,109

178,289

4.6

14.59

5,109

$20.01–$30.00

175,574

6.1

27.47

2,770

123,269

5.7

26.56

2,057

$30.01–$40.00

2,459,041

6.0

34.34

21,917

1,736,751

5.7

32.81

18,133

$40.01–$50.00

2,260,219

7.1

45.61


1,467,505

6.8

44.66


$50.01–$60.00

4,400

8.7

50.59


1,466

8.7

50.59


Totals

5,392,613

6.2 years

$

36.50

$

41,969

3,822,370

6.5 years

$

34.04

$

37,434

The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents
the total intrinsic value, based on a closing stock price of $43.25 as of December 30,
2006, that would have been received by the option holders had all option
holders exercised their options as of that date. The total number of
in-the-money options exercisable as of December 30, 2006 was 3,293,201.

The
following table summarizes the non-vested stock option activity in the equity
incentive plans for the fiscal year ending December 30, 2006:

Stock Options

Weighted Average Exercise Price

Non-vested at
  December 31, 2005

1,841,802

$

42.06

Granted

889,650

39.62

Forfeited

(168,798

)

43.20

Vested

(992,411

)

39.03

Non-vested at
  December 30, 2006

1,570,243

$

42.48

Restricted Stock

Stock compensation expense associated with restricted
common stock is charged for the market value on the date of grant, less
estimated forfeitures, and is amortized over the awards’ vesting period on a
straight-line basis.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Stock
Based Compensation  (Continued)

The following table
summarizes the restricted stock activity for 2006:

Restricted Stock

Weighted

Average

Grant Date

Fair Value

Outstanding
  December 31, 2005

564,863

$

46.76

Granted

350,850

38.73

Vested

(198,944

)

46.40

Cancelled

(62,989

)

41.80

Outstanding
  December 30, 2006

653,780

$

42.91

As of December 30,
2006, the unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested restricted stock
was $19,318 net of estimated forfeitures. This unrecognized compensation will
be recognized over an estimated weighted average amortization period of 24.3
months. The total fair value of restricted stock grants that vested during the
fiscal years ending December 30, 2006, December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004 was $9,231, $1,683 and $1,440, respectively.

12.

Joint
Ventures

The Company holds
investments in several joint ventures. These joint ventures are separate legal
entities whose purpose is consistent with the overall operations of the Company
and represent geographic and business segment expansions of existing markets.
The financial results of all joint ventures were consolidated in the Company’s
results as the Company has the ability to exercise control over these entities.
The interests of the outside joint venture partners in these joint ventures
have been recorded as minority interests totaling $9,223 and $9,718 at December 30,
2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.

13.

Commitments
and Contingencies

Operating Leases

The
Company has commitments for various operating leases for machinery and
equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. Rent expense for
all operating leases was $18,134, $19,542 and $10,663 in 2006, 2005, and 2004,
respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under
noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or
more, consist of the following at December 30, 2006:


$

17,971


12,773


8,480


4,619


3,084

Thereafter

4,749


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

13.

Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)

Insurance

The Company maintains
insurance for workers’ compensation, various liability lines and employee
medical with per claim loss limits up to $500. Aggregate loss limits for
workers compensation, auto liability and general liability is projected at
$4,450. Related accruals were $5,253 and $5,447 on December 30, 2006 and December 31,
2005, respectively.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims
and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending
against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome of such
proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

14.

Related
Party Transactions

Ajinomoto Company, Inc.
(Ajinomoto) is a minority shareholder in Charles River Laboratories Japan, Inc.
Charles River Japan conducts certain business transactions with Ajinomoto,
including the purchase of information technology systems and services,
engineering services, product delivery services and the reimbursement of
employee compensation. Charles River Japan incurred expenses related to these
services of $3,182, $4,639 and $6,053 during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
As of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, Charles River Japan
had amounts due to Ajinomoto totaling $1,038 and $1,427, respectively. In
addition, Charles River Japan sold products to Ajinomoto totaling $667, $736
and $1,090 during 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

15. Business Segment and
Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures
About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” the Company discloses
financial and descriptive information about its reportable operating segments.
Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing
performance.

The Company reports two segments, called Research
Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS).

RMS includes the Company’s research model business,
research model services, vaccine support services and in vitro technology
services. PCS includes development services which enable customers to
accelerate their drug discovery and development process. These services are FDA
compliant services that aid customers in drug safety assessment and biologicals
safety testing. In connection with discontinuing the Company’s Phase II-IV
Clinical business during 2006, the Phase I Clinical business has been combined
with the PCS segment. The Phase I Clinical business is an integral component of
the Company’s service offerings as it supports customers’ preclinical efforts
through early-stage clinical trials. The combination of the Phase I Clinical
Services business into the PCS segment better reflects the Company’s operating
results and the manner in which the businesses are managed. Segment data for
2005 and 2004 has been restated to reflect this combination.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

15.
Business Segment and Geographic Information

(Continued)

The following table
presents sales and other financial information by business segment. Net sales
represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in either provision
of RMS or PCS. Long lived assets include property, plant and equipment,
goodwill, other intangibles and other long lived assets.




Research
  Models and Services

Net sales

$

514,999

$

503,167

$

476,668

Gross margin

214,125

215,534

206,843

Operating income

147,789

159,756

152,556

Total assets

674,963

484,975

569,765

Long-lived assets

306,267

217,414

211,110

Depreciation and amortization

20,804

20,015

17,872

Capital expenditures

27,018

24,558

26,560

Preclinical Services

Net sales

$

543,386

$

490,161

$

247,553

Gross margin

192,482

174,170

81,880

Operating income

82,323

67,918

32,435

Total assets

1,875,487

1,655,960

1,638,774

Long-lived assets

1,641,935

1,477,407

1,479,287

Depreciation and amortization

61,779

67,920

24,191

Capital
  expenditures

154,728

69,885

18,198

A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is
as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

December 25, 2004

Total segment
  operating income

$

230,112

$

227,674

$

184,991

Unallocated
  corporate overhead

(41,939

)

(42,980

)

(27,005

)

Consolidated operating
  income

$

188,173

$

184,694

$

157,986

A
summary of unallocated corporate overhead consists of the following:

December 30,


December 31,


December 25,


Restricted stock
  and performance based compensation expense

$

8,198

$

14,566

$

5,986

U.S. pension
  expense

8,459

5,418

3,483

Audit, tax and
  related expense

3,918

2,679

4,067

Bonus expense

3,613

2,963

2,523

Executive
  officers’ salaries

8,083

5,627

4,326

Other general
  unallocated corporate expenses

9,668

11,727

6,620

$

41,939

$

42,980

$

27,005


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

15.
Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

Other general unallocated corporate expenses consist
of various costs including those associated with senior executive salaries and
departments such as corporate accounting, legal and investor relations.

The following table
presents sales and other financial information by geographic regions. Included
in the other non-U.S. category below are the Company’s operations located in
Australia, Canada, China, and Mexico. Sales to unaffiliated customers represent
net sales originating in entities physically located in the identified
geographic area. Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment,
goodwill, other intangibles, and other long-lived assets.

U.S.

Europe

Canada

Japan

Other

Non-U.S.

Consolidated


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

527,432

$

289,072

$

173,853

$

56,387

$

11,641

$

1,058,385

Long-lived assets

537,534

580,143

785,420

41,385

3,721

1,948,203


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

499,144

$

272,382

$

151,839

$

58,163

$

11,806

$

993,328

Long-lived assets

289,406

522,150

835,675

42,693

4,896

1,694,821


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

454,220

$

169,594

$

32,438

$

57,126

$

10,864

$

724,221

Long-lived
  assets

$

253,933

$

548,534

$

834,900

$

48,216

$

4,814

$

1,690,397

16. Subsequent events

In January 2007, the Company acquired the
remaining 15% of the equity (319,199 common shares) of Charles River Laboratories
Japan, Inc. from Ajinomoto Company, Inc., the minority interest partner. As
of the effective date of this transaction, the Company owns 100% of Charles
River Japan. The purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or
approximately $10,889, which was paid in cash.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(dollars in thousands)

Income Tax Valuation Allowance

Balance
  at December 27, 2003

$

4,051

Provisions


Releases

(2,111

)

Balance at December 25, 2004

1,940

Provisions


Releases

(1,940

)

Balance at December 31, 2005

$


Provisions

—

Releases

(678

)

Balance
  at December 30, 2006

$


Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Balance
  at December 27, 2003

$

1,644

Provisions


Acquisitions

1,399

Recoveries/Write-offs

(430

)

Balance at December 25, 2004

3,268

Provisions


Recoveries/Write-offs

(1,508

)

Balance at December 31, 2005

2,279

Provisions


Recoveries/Write-offs

(98

)

Balance
  at December 30, 2006

$

3,109


CHARLES RIVER
LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Total net sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross profit

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income
  (loss)

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Income from
  continuing operations

28,515

32,781

32,133

31,792

Income (loss) from
  discontinued businesses, net of tax

(128,630

)

(7,032

)

(48,739

)

3,397

Net income

$

(100,115

)

$

25,749

$

(16,606

)

35,189

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing
  operations

$

0.40

$

0.46

$

0.48

$

0.48

Discontinued
  operations

$

(1.80

)

$

(0.10

)

$

(0.73

)

$

0.05

Net income

$

(1.40

)

$

0.36

$

(0.25

)

$

0.53

Diluted

Continuing
  operations

$

0.39

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.47

Discontinued
  operations

$

(1.76

)

$

(0.10

)

$

(0.72

)

$

0.05

Net income

$

(1.37

)

$

0.36

$

(0.24

)

$

0.52

Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

Total net sales

$

241,410

$

250,890

$

242,829

$

258,199

Gross profit

96,068

101,604

96,077

95,955

Operating income
  (loss)

45,427

49,058

47,167

43,042

Income from
  continuing operations

28,344

31,009

29,889

56,547

Income (loss) from
  discontinued businesses, net of tax

(696

)


2,184

(6,129

)

Net income

27,648

31,860

32,073

50,418

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing
  operations

$

0.43

$

0.44

$

0.42

$

0.79

Discontinued
  operations

$

(0.01

)

$

0.01

$

0.03

$

(0.09

)

Net income

$

0.42

$

0.46

$

0.45

$

0.70

Diluted

Continuing
  operations

$

0.41

$

0.43

$

0.41

$

0.77

Discontinued
  operations

$

(0.01

)

$

0.01

$

0.03

$

(0.08

)

Net income

$

0.40

$

0.44

$

0.44

$

0.69

Year ended December 25, 2004

Total net sales

$

166,879

$

173,538

$

170,458

$

213,346

Gross profit

67,177

72,703

68,289

80,552

Operating income
  (loss)

38,478

43,040

42,982

33,486

Income from
  continuing operations

16,967

25,605

25,587

20,572

Income (loss) from
  discontinued businesses, net of tax




(495

)

Net income

17,594

26,300

25,821

20,077

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing
  operations

$

0.37

$

0.55

$

0.55

$

0.34

Discontinued
  operations

$

0.01

$

0.02

$

0.01

$

(0.01

)

Net income

$

0.38

$

0.57

$

0.56

$

0.33

Diluted

Continuing
  operations

$

0.34

$

0.51

$

0.50

$

0.32

Discontinued
  operations

$

0.02

$

0.01

$

0.01

$

(0.01

)

Net income

$

0.36

$

0.52

$

0.51

$

0.32


Quarterly Segment Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended
  December 30, 2006

Research Models and
  Services

Sales

$

128,972

$

130,816

$

127,560

$

127,651

Gross margin

55,866

55,478

52,423

50,358

Operating income

40,476

38,003

36,691

32,619

Depreciation and amortization

5,035

5,237

5,185

5,345

Capital Expenditures

3,566

4,783

3,932

14,737

Preclinical
  Services

Sales

$

125,169

$

137,043

$

137,100

$

144,074

Gross margin

39,639

51,632

49,839

51,372

Operating income

13,788

22,530

22,971

23,034

Depreciation and amortization

14,625

15,288

15,389

16,482

Capital Expenditures

35,821

12,620

39,038

67,249

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(10,568

)

$

(12,831

)

$

(8,041

)

$

(10,499

)

Total

Sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross margin

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Depreciation and amortization

19,660

20,525

20,574

21,827

Capital
  Expenditures

39,387

17,403

42,970

81,986

Quarterly Segment Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended
  December 31, 2005

Research Models and
  Services

Sales

$

127,912

$

130,771

$

118,882

$

125,602

Gross margin

56,567

57,729

49,984

51,254

Operating income

42,308

43,050

36,713

37,685

Depreciation and amortization

4,873

4,903

5,024

5,215

Capital Expenditures

5,314

6,478

5,583

7,183

Preclinical
  Services

Sales

$

113,498

$

120,119

$

123,947

$

132,597

Gross margin

39,501

43,875

46,093

44,701

Operating income

13,170

18,596

19,947

16,205

Depreciation and amortization

17,249

16,472

16,510

17,689

Capital Expenditures

6,852

5,115

39,831

18,087

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(10,051

)

$

(12,588

)

$

(9,493

)

$

(10,848

)

Total

Sales

$

241,410

$

250,890

$

242,829

$

258,199

Gross margin

96,068

101,604

96,077

95,955

Operating income

45,427

49,058

47,167

43,042

Depreciation and amortization

22,122

21,375

21,534

22,904

Capital
  Expenditures

12,166

11,593

45,414

25,270


Item  9.

Changes
in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on their
evaluation, required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15,
promulgated by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 , the Company’s principal
executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act are effective as of December 30,
2006 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures
include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files
or submits under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s
management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers,
or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls
and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable assurances of achieving the desired control objectives, and
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in designing and
evaluating the controls and procedures. We continually are in the process of
further reviewing and documenting our disclosure controls and procedures, and
our internal control over financial reporting, and accordingly may from time to
time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that our
systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Changes
in Internal Controls

There
were no changes in the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting
identified in connection with the evaluation req

u

ired by paragraph (d) of the Exchange
Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the quarter
ended December 30, 2006 that materially affected, or were reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s report on our
internal controls over financial reporting can be found in Item 8 of this
report. The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s attestation report
on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting can also be found in Item 8 of this report.

Item 9B.

Other
Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

A.   Directors and Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The information required
by this Item regarding the directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of
the Exchange Act by the Company’s officers and directors will be included in
the 2007 Proxy Statement under the section captioned “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
The information required by this Item regarding the Company’s corporate
governance will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the section
captioned “Corporate Governance” and is incorporated herein by reference
thereto.

B.   Executive Officers of the
Company

The information required
by this Item regarding the executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I
of this Form 10-K under the heading “Supplementary Item. Executive
Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of
Regulation S-K.”

C.   Audit Committee Financial
Expert

The information required
by this Item regarding the audit committee of the Board of Directors and
financial experts will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the
section captioned “Audit Committee and Financial Experts” and is incorporated
herein by reference thereto.

D.   Code of Ethics

The Company has adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of its employees and
directors, including the principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar
functions. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our
website at

http://ir.criver.com

. The Company will
provide to any person, without charge, a copy of its Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics by requesting a copy from the Secretary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc.,
251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887.

E.   Changes to Board
Nomination Procedures

Since February 2004,  there have been no material changes to the
procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Company’s
Board of Directors.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the sections
captioned “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation,” “

E

xecutive Compensation and Related Information”
and “Report of Compensation Committee” and is incorporated herein by reference
thereto.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the sections
captioned “Beneficial Ownership of Securities” and “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto. See also Item 5. “Market
for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases
of Equity Securities—Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans” for the disclosure required by Item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.


Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the sections
captioned “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and  “Corporate Governance—Director Qualification
Standards” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.

Principal
Accountant Fees and Services

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2007 Proxy Statement under the section
captioned “Statement of Fees Paid to Independent Accountants” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15(a)(1) and
(2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules

See “Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Financial Statements Schedules” at Item 8 to this Form 10-K.
Other financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not
applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and
Item 15(c) Exhibits

The exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
are listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits. The
Company has identified in the Exhibit Index each management contract and
compensation plan filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
in response to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By:

/s/ THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Date: February 27, 2006

Thomas F. Ackerman Corporate Executive Vice
  President and

Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated below and on the dates indicated.


EXHIBIT
INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description

3.1

Amended and Restated
  Certificate of Incorporation of Charles River Laboratories
  International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1). (1)

3.2

By-laws of Charles
  River Laboratories International, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2). (1)

4.1

Form of certificate
  representing shares of common stock, $0.01 per value per share (Filed as
  Exhibit 4.1). (1)

4.2

Indenture dated
  June 6, 2006, amount Charles river Laboratories International, Inc.
  and U.S. Bank National Association. (2)

4.3

Form of 2.25%
  Convertible Senior Note due 2013. (2)

10.4

Severance Agreement
  between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and Real H. Renaud, dated
  January 20, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10.10). (1)+

10.5

*

1999 Charles River
  Laboratories Officer Separation Plan. +

10.6

Charles River
  Laboratories 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.6)
  + (3).

10.7

Charles River
  Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan, as amended May 2003 and May 2005.
  (Filed as Exhibit 10.7). (3) +

10.8

Charles River
  Laboratories 2000 Directors Stock Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.15). (1)+

10.9

Charles River
  Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan Inland Revenue Approved Rules for UK
  Employees (Filed as Exhibit 99.1). (3)+

10.10

Form of
  Indemnification Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.16). (1)+

10.11

Form of Change in
  Control Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.11).(3) +

10.13

Summary of Director
  Compensation. + (6)

10.15

Executive Incentive
  Compensation Plan, as amended. (8) +

10.16

Form of Award
  Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan.+ (5)

10.17

Form of Restricted
  Stock Award Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan. +(5)

10.20

Inveresk Research
  Group, Inc. 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Compensation Plan, as
  amended and restated as of May 4, 2004. +(4)

10.21

Inveresk Research
  Group, Inc. 2002 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan. +(4)

10.23

Charles River
  Laboratories Executive Life Insurance/Supplemental Retirement Income
  Plan.(6) +

10.25

Form of Resale
  Restriction Agreement. + (7)

10.27

Deferred Compensation
  Plan. (9)

+


10.28

Second Amended and
  Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2006, among Charles
  River Laboratories International, Inc., the Subsidiary Borrowers party
  thereto, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as
  administrative agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as syndication
  agent, and Bank of America, N.A., Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and Wachovia
  Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents. (10)

21.1

*

Subsidiaries of Charles
  River Laboratories International, Inc.

23.1

*

Consent of
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1

*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification
  of the Chief Executive Officer.

31.2

*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification
  of the Chief Financial Officer.

32.1

*

Section 1350
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.

*

Filed
herewith.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

(1)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1
(File No. 333-35524), as amended, filed June 23, 2000.

(2)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12,
2006.

(3)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 14,
2006.

(4)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed
on October 20, 2004.

(5)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 1,
2004.

(6)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 9,
2005.

(7)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  December 13, 2005

(8)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  December 22, 2005.

(9)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  February 14, 2006.

(10) Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K,
filed on  August 2, 2006.

105