10-K


a2105667z10-k.htm

10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO

SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(MARK ONE)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 28, 2002

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File No. 333-92383

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

06-1397316

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

251 Ballardvale Street

Wilmington, Massachusetts

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

(978) 658-6000

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer. Yes

ý

No

o

As
of June 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $1,543,056,587. As
of that date, there were outstanding 44,742,208 shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 2, 2003 (the 2003 Proxy
Statement), which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 28, 2002, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of the portions of the 2003 Proxy Statement expressly incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by
reference, such document shall not be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT


Item

Page

PART I


Business



Properties



Legal Proceedings



Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K


PART II


Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters



Selected Consolidated Financial Data



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


PART III


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Executive Compensation



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions



Controls and Procedures


PART IV


Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


PART I

Item 1. Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K), contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future
results of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (Charles River) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Charles
River operates and the beliefs and assumptions of the management of Charles River. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "targets," "goals," "projects," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks,"
"estimates," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only predictions and are subject to risks,
uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might
cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled "Risks Related to Our Business and Industry".
Charles River undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.

Corporate History

Charles River has been in business for over 55 years and has undergone several business structure changes over the years. Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we completed our initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.. Our stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "CRL" and is included in the Standard & Poor's S&P MidCap 400 Index. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing
address is 251 Ballardvale St., Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone number at that location is (978) 658-6000. Our Internet site is www.criver.com. Material contained on our
Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to "Charles River," "we,"
"us" or "our" refer to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This
Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available free of charge through our Internet site as soon as
practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth
Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC
maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading provider of critical research tools and integrated support services that enable innovative and efficient drug discovery and development. We are
the global leader in providing the animal research models required in research and development for new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in this business for more than 55 years. Since
1992, we have built upon our research model technologies to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of biomedical products and services. Our wide array of services enables our customers to reduce
costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. Our customer base includes major pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, as well as
many government agencies, leading hospitals, and academic institutions throughout the world. We currently operate 82 facilities in 16 countries worldwide. Our differentiated products and services,
supported by our global infrastructure and scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences


research, a large and growing market. In 2002, our net sales were $554.6 million and our operating income was $122.3 million.

Biomedical Products and Services.

We have focused significant resources on developing a diverse
portfolio of biomedical products and services. Our biomedical products and services business represented 59.7% of our total net sales in 2002. We expect the drug discovery and development markets that
we serve will continue to experience growth, particularly as new drug development based on advances in genomics and proteomics continues to evolve. There are four business units within this segment of
our business:

Discovery Services.

Our discovery services are designed to assist our customers in screening drug candidates faster by providing a variety
of services related to genetically-defined research models for in-house research and by implementing efficacy screening protocols to improve the customer's drug-evaluation
process. We currently offer four major categories of discovery services: transgenic services, infectious disease and genetic testing, contract site management and laboratory and research support
services. One of the largest contributors to this segment's growth in 2002 was our transgenic
services business, where we work alongside researchers using embryo cryopreservation, rederivation and colony scale-up which enables them to develop new drug targets, pathways and,
ultimately, drugs. In 2002, in order to meet the growing demand for these services, we built a new, state-of-the-art, 70,000 square foot facility. Discovery
services contributed 18.8% of total net sales in 2002.

Development Services.

We currently offer FDA-compliant development services in three main areas: drug safety assessment,
biosafety testing and medical device testing. Biosafety testing services include a broad range of services specifically focused on supporting biotech or protein-based drug development, including such
areas as protein characterization, cell banking, methods development and release testing. Our development services offerings enable our customers to outsource their high-end,
non-core drug development activities. In June 2002, we acquired Biological Laboratories Europe Limited (BioLabs) and Springborn Laboratories Inc. (Springborn). BioLabs is our
Ireland- based human and animal health testing company, which provides a broad range of services supporting the discovery, development and manufacture of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and animal
and human health products. BioLabs' strengths include the development and conduct of bioassays under stringent regulatory conditions that test for the safety of toxins, hormones and other biologics
used in medical treatments. Springborn, our Ohio-based drug safety assessment business we acquired in October 2002, is a leading provider of testing services for
pre-clinical drug discovery and development, principally in evaluating the safety of new drug candidates before they enter human clinical trials. The acquisitions of BioLabs and Springborn
greatly expanded our portfolio of outsourcing services and our ability to provide services globally. In October 2002, we also formed a joint venture, Charles River Proteomics
Services, Inc., which we expect will provide proteomics testing services to our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers on a fee-for-service basis. Proteomics testing
is expected to be an important contributor to new drug development in the coming years. Development services, our largest business unit in this segment, contributed 32.7% of total net sales in 2002.

In Vitro Technology.

We have diversified our product offerings to include non-animal, or

in
vitro

, methods for testing the safety of drugs and devices. We are strategically committed to being the leader in providing our customers with

in
vitro

alternatives as these methods become scientifically validated and commercially feasible. Our current products include endotoxin detection systems that ensure injectable
drugs and devices are free from harmful contaminants. This business unit contributed 3.3% of total net sales in 2002.

Vaccine Support Products.

We provide vaccine manufacturers with pathogen-free fertilized chicken eggs, a critical ingredient
for poultry vaccine production. We believe there may be potential for


growth in this area in support of novel human vaccines, such as a nasal spray flu vaccine currently in development. This business unit contributed 4.9% of total net sales in 2002.

Research Models.

We are the global leader in the production and sale of research models, principally
genetically and virally defined purpose-bred rats and mice. These products represented 40.3% of our 2002 total net sales. We offer approximately 165 research models, one of the largest
selections of small animal models of any provider worldwide. Our higher growth models include genetically defined models and models with compromised immune systems, which are increasingly in demand as
early-stage
research tools. The FDA and foreign regulatory bodies typically require the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates and many medical devices to be tested on research models like ours prior to
testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process. Our research models are produced in a biosecure environment designed to ensure
that the animals are free of viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our biosecure production capabilities and our ability to
deliver consistent, high quality research models worldwide, we are well positioned to benefit from the steady growth in research and development spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
and continued research spending by government agencies such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2002, for the first time in a decade, we added production space in three North America
locations: Massachusetts, California and Montreal, Canada, to accommodate the sales growth in research models.

Competitive Strengths

Our products and services are critical to both traditional pharmaceutical research and the growing fields of genomics, proteomics, recombinant protein, and
humanized antibody research. We believe we are well positioned to compete effectively in all of these markets as a result of a diverse set of competitive strengths, which include:

Critical Products and Services.

We provide critical, proven and enabling products and services that
our customers rely on to advance their early-stage research efforts and accelerate product development. We offer a wide array of complementary research tools and discovery and development services
that differentiate us from our competition and have created a sustained competitive advantage in our markets.

Long-Standing Reputation for Scientific Excellence.

We have earned our
long-standing reputation for scientific excellence by consistently delivering high-quality research models supported by exceptional technical service and support for over
55 years. As a result, the Charles River brand name is synonymous with premium quality products and services and scientific excellence in the biomedical research industry. We have nearly 250
science professionals on staff with D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s and M.D.s, in areas including laboratory animal medicine, molecular biology, pathology, immunology, toxicology and pharmacology.

Extensive Global Infrastructure and Customer Relationships.

Our operations are globally integrated
throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our extensive investment in worldwide infrastructure allows us to standardize our products and services across borders when required by our multinational
customers, while also offering a customized local presence when needed. We currently operate 82 facilities in 16 countries worldwide, serving a global customer base.

Biosecurity Technology Expertise.

In our research models business, our commitment to and expert
knowledge of biosecurity technology distinguishes us from our competition. We maintain rigorous
biosecurity standards in all of our facilities to maintain the health profile and consistency of our research models. These qualities are crucial to the integrity and timeliness of our customers'
research.


Platform Acquisition and Internal Development Capabilities.

We have a proven track record of
successfully identifying, acquiring, and developing complementary businesses and new technologies. With this experience, we have developed internal expertise in sourcing acquisitions and further
developing new technologies.

Experienced and Incentivized Management Team.

Most of our senior management team has an average of
nearly 20 years of service with our company. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James C. Foster, has been with us for 27 years. As of December 28, 2002 our management team
owned, or had options to acquire, securities representing approximately 3.0% of our equity on a fully-diluted basis.

Our Strategy

Our business strategy is to build upon our core research model business and to actively invest in higher-growth opportunities where our proven capabilities and
strong relationships allow us to achieve and maintain a leadership position. Our growth strategies include:

Broaden the Scope of Our Discovery and Development Services.

Primarily through acquisitions and
alliances, we have improved our ability to offer new services that complement our existing drug discovery business. We intend to provide the additional critical support services needed to create,
define, characterize and scientifically validate new genetic models expected to arise out of the Human Genome and Mouse Genome Projects.

Expand Our Pre-clinical Outsourcing Services.

Many of our pharmaceutical and
biotechnology customers outsource a wide variety of research activities that are critical to their scientific innovation process. We believe the trend of outsourcing pre-clinical or
early-stage research will continue to increase. We are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities, principally through our discovery and development services offerings.
We believe our early successes in the transgenic services area have increased customer demand for outsourcing and have created significant opportunities. Our research support services provide
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with significant cost and resource allocation advantages over their existing internal operations. We intend to focus our marketing efforts on stimulating
demand for further outsourcing of pre-clinical research. We also intend to expand our opportunities by increasing our international presence.

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.

Over the past decade, we have completed 21 acquisitions
and alliances that have contributed to our financial results. Several of our operations began as platform acquisitions, which we were able to grow by developing and marketing the acquired products or
services to our extensive global customer base. We intend to further pursue strategic platform acquisitions to drive our long-term growth. We believe our approach to acquisitions is a
disciplined one that seeks to focus on businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing stockholder value. This strategy may include geographic expansion of an
existing core service or strengthening of one of our core services.

Business Segments

Our business is divided into two segments: Biomedical Products and Services, and Research Models.


BIOMEDICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

Our biomedical products and services business segment consists of the following operations:

Discovery Services

Development Services

In Vitro

Technology

Vaccine Support Products

•  Transgenic Services

•  Infectious Disease and Genetic Testing

•  Contract Site Management

•  Laboratory and Research Support Services

•  Pharmacokinetic and Metabolic Analysis

•  Bioanalytical Chemistry

•  Pharmacologic Surgery

•  General and Specialty Toxicology

•  Medical Device Testing

•  Pathology Services

•  Biosafety Testing

•  Proteomics Testing

•  Endotoxin Detection Systems

•  In Vitro Safety Screening

•  Animal Health

•  Human Health

Discovery Services

Discovery represents the earliest stages of research and development in the life sciences, directed to the identification (discovery) and selection of a lead
compound for future drug development. Discovery is followed by development activities, which are directed at validation of the selected drug candidates. Discovery and development represent most of the
pre-clinical activities in drug development.

Initiated
in 1995, the discovery services area of our business addresses the growing need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the non-core aspects
of their drug discovery activities. These discovery services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business. We currently offer four major categories of
discovery services: transgenic services, infectious disease and genetic testing, contract site management, and laboratory and research support services.

Transgenic Services.

In this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining, improving, breeding
and testing research models purchased or created by them for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a transgenic model can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first step in
the discovery process. Productive utilization of research models requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide transgenic breeding expertise, model characterization and colony
development, genetic characterization, quarantine, embryo cryopreservation, embryo transfer, rederivation, and health and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to nearly 200 laboratories
around the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities. We maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally occurring or experimentally manipulated
research models for our customers. We expect that the demand for our services will grow as the use of transgenic animal models continues to grow within the research community. In 2002, in order to
meet the growing demand for these services, we built a new, state-of-the-art, 70,000-square-foot facility in Wilmington, MA.

Infectious Disease and Genetic Testing.

We assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the
research models used in their research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model
business. Depending upon a customer's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities.


We believe that the continued growth in development and utilization of transgenic models will drive our future growth as the reference laboratory of choice for genetic testing of special models.

Contract Site Management.

Building upon our core capability as a leading provider of high-quality research
models, we manage animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology organizations. Demand for our services reflects the growing necessity of these large
institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not critical to the core scientific innovation process. In addition, we believe that our expertise in managing the laboratory animal
environment enhances the productivity and quality of our customers' research facilities. This area leads to additional opportunities for us to provide other products and services to our customers.
Site management does not require us to make any incremental investment, thereby generating a favorable return on deployed assets.

Laboratory and Research Support Services.

Our laboratory and research support services provide advanced or specialized
research model studies for our customers. These projects capitalize on our strong research model capabilities and also utilize more recently developed capabilities in protocol development, animal
micro-surgery, dosing techniques, drug effectiveness testing and data management and analysis. We believe these services, particularly in oncology and cardiovascular studies, offer added value to our
research customers, who rely on our extensive expertise, infrastructure and resources.

Development Services

Our development services enable our customers to outsource their non-core drug development activities to us. These activities are typically required
for the discovery of the lead compound and to support the regulatory filings necessary to obtain FDA approval. The demand for these services is driven by the trend to outsource certain
pre-clinical drug development work. We currently offer development services in eight main areas: pharmacokinetic and metabolic analysis, bioanalytical chemistry, pharmacologic surgery,
general and specialty toxicology, medical device testing, pathology services, biosafety testing and proteomics testing.

Pharmacokinetic and Metabolic Analysis.

Our scientists conduct pharmacokinetic studies to determine the mechanisms by which
drugs function in mammalian systems to produce therapeutic effects, as well as to understand how drugs may produce undesirable or toxic effects. Our scientists also conduct metabolic studies to reveal
how drugs are broken down and excreted, and the duration that drugs or their byproducts remain in various organs and tissues. These studies can be performed as part of the drug screening process to
help discover lead compounds, as well as later in the development process to provide information regarding safety and efficacy.

Bioanalytical Chemistry.

Our bioanalytical chemistry services support all phases of drug development from discovery to
non-clinical studies and clinical trials. Our researchers design and conduct lead-optimization projects, develop and validate methods used to analyze samples and conduct
protein binding studies.

Pharmacologic Surgery.

Many sophisticated drugs are designed to be administered directly to a precise location within the
body using surgical, or "invasive," techniques. The development of these and certain other drugs requires the use of surgical techniques to administer a drug, or to observe its effects in various
tissues. Our pharmacologic surgery program offers extensive capabilities in this area, and has developed numerous research models in collaboration with world-renowned experts in the fields of
cardiology, inflammation, and pathology at leading academic institutions.

General and Specialty Toxicology.

Our team of scientists, including toxicologists, pathologists, and regulatory specialists,
designs and performs general and highly-specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. We are an


industry leader in the fields of reproductive and developmental toxicology, photobiology, and other specialty toxicological assessments.

Medical Device Testing.

The FDA requires companies introducing medical devices to test the biocompatibility of any new
materials that have not previously been approved for contact with human tissue. We provide a wide variety of medical device testing services from prototype feasibility testing to
long-term GLP, or good laboratory practices, studies, primarily in large research models. These services include cardiovascular surgery, biomaterial reactivity studies, orthopedic studies
and related laboratory services. We maintain state-of-the-art surgical suites where our skilled professional staff implement custom surgery protocols provided by
our customers.

Pathology Services.

In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize pathologic changes within
tissues and cells is critical in determining the safety of a new compound. We employ highly-trained pathologists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify
pathology within tissues and cells, as well as at the molecular level. Frequently, decisions regarding continued product development are dependent on these pathology findings.

Biosafety Testing.

We provide specialized non-clinical quality control testing that is frequently outsourced by
both pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These services allow our customers to determine if the human protein drug candidates, or the process for manufacturing those products, are essentially
free of residual biological materials. The bulk of this testing work is required by the FDA for obtaining new drug approval, maintaining an FDA-licensed manufacturing facility or releasing
approved products for use in patients. Our scientific staff consults with customers in the areas of process development, validation, manufacturing scale-up and biological testing. We also
provide, on a very small scale, services to develop and manufacture drugs in small quantities that are needed for early and mid-stage clinical trials.

Proteomics Testing.

In October 2002, we established a joint venture, 80% owned by us, that will provide
leading-edge proteomics testing and analysis services on a fee-for-service contract basis to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Proteomics testing
involves the separation, identification and characterization of proteins present in a tissue or other biological samples. By comparing the proteins in samples from animal models and humans affected by
a particular disease with those present in samples from healthy models and individuals, it is possible for the drug discovery customer to identify directly those proteins that are potentially related
to that disease, condition or treatment. These proteins would then have commercial potential as targets for the development of new drugs, as novel therapeutics, or as diagnostics and biomarkers.

In Vitro Technology

While the scientific community does not foresee significant replacement of animal models with the use of

in vitro

techniques, we believe that these techniques may offer a refinement or complement to animal test systems after the extended period of scientific validation is successfully completed. We intend to
pursue this area to the extent alternatives become commercially viable.

Endotoxin Detection Systems.

We are a market leader in endotoxin testing, which is used to test quality control samples of
injectable drugs and devices, their components and the processes under which they are manufactured, for the presence of endotoxins. Endotoxins are fever-producing pathogens or compounds that are
highly toxic to humans when sufficient quantities are introduced into the body.
Quality control testing for endotoxin contamination by our customers is an FDA requirement for injectable drugs and devices, and the manufacture of the test kits and reagents is regulated by the FDA
as a medical device. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and only major
FDA-validated

in vitro

alternative to an animal model test for endotoxin detection in pharmaceutical


and medical device manufacturing. The process of extracting blood is not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean environment. We produce and distribute test kits,
reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for medical devices and other products worldwide. We have a patent relating to our
next generation of endotoxin testing technology.

In Vitro Safety Screening.

We provide a non-animal

in vitro

safety screening test, Endosafe® iPT. The Endosafe iPT test, which is aimed at the $50 million market for lot-release testing of products derived from human blood and
biologicals, is used for detecting harmful microbial contamination in drugs, medical devices and a wide range of therapeutic products. We are also intending to expand our

in
vitro

market opportunity with a new, portable version of our highly successful endotoxin testing platform. The Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe PTS) allows endotoxin
testing in the field, affording researchers accurate and timely results.

Vaccine Support Products

Animal Health.

We are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF, chickens and fertile
chicken eggs. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained "bioreactors" for the manufacturing of live and killed viruses. These viruses are used as a raw
material in poultry and human vaccine applications. The production of SPF eggs is done under biosecure conditions, similar to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence that includes
several SPF egg production facilities in the United States, as well as facilities in Germany and Australia. We have a joint venture in Mexico and a franchise in India. We also operate a specialized
avian laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house testing and support services to our customers.

Human Health.

We are also applying our SPF egg technology to human vaccine markets. We have an agreement with a company that
is in the late stages of the FDA approval process for a nasal spray-delivered vaccine for human flu. If FDA-approved and commercially successful, we expect this human flu vaccine may
increase demand for our SPF eggs.


RESEARCH MODELS

Research models represent our historical core business and accounted for 40.3% of total net sales in 2002. The business is comprised of the commercial production
and sale of animal research models, principally purpose-bred rats, mice and other rodents for use by researchers. We are the commercial leader in the small animal research model area,
supplying rodents for research since 1947. Our research models include:

•

outbred
animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

•

inbred
animals, which are genetically identical;

•

other
genetically-modified research models, such as consomics;

•

hybrid
animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

•

spontaneous
mutant animals, which contain a naturally-occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and

•

transgenic
animals, which contain genetic material transferred from another source.

With
approximately 165 research models, we offer one of the largest selections of small animal models and provide our customers with high-volume and high-quality
production. Our rats, mice and other rodent species such as guinea pigs and hamsters have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of
our continuous commitment to innovation and quality in the breeding process. We provide our small animal models to numerous customers around the world, including all major pharmaceutical companies,
biotechnology companies as
well as many government agencies, leading hospitals, and academic institutions. With our acquisition of Genetic Models, Inc. in 2001, we acquired new and proprietary, disease-specific rat
models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease, and kidney disease.

The
use of animal models is critical to both the discovery and development of a new drug. The FDA requires that a drug be tested for safety and efficacy on two species of animal models,
one small and one large, before moving into the clinic for testing on humans. Animal testing is used in order to identify, define, characterize and assess the safety of new drug candidates.
Increasingly, genetically defined rats and mice are the models of choice in early discovery and development work as a more specifically targeted research tool. Outbred rats are frequently used in
safety assessment studies. Our models are also used in life science research in universities, hospitals and other research institutions. Unlike drug discovery, these uses are generally not
specifically mandated by regulatory agencies such as the FDA, but instead are governed by the terms of government grants, institutional protocols, as well as the scientific inquiry and peer review
publication processes. We also provide larger animal models, including rabbits and primates, to the research community, principally for use in drug development and testing studies.

We
believe that over the next several years, many new research models will be developed and used in biomedical research, such as transgenic models with identical genes,
knock-out models with one or more disabled genes, and models that incorporate or exclude a particular mouse, rat or human gene. These more highly-defined and characterized models will
allow researchers to further focus their investigations into disease conditions and potential new therapies or interventions. We intend to build upon our position as the leader in transgenic services
to expand our presence in this market for higher-value models.

Through
our strategic partnership with The Jackson Laboratory, an internationally renowned research institution that develops unique mouse models for use in medical research, drug
discovery and development work, we produce and distribute The Jackson Laboratory's research models in Europe and Asia. The partnership combines The Jackson Laboratory's strength in genetic science
with our


global production and distribution capabilities. We view this relationship as an important step toward broadening the scope of our research models business.

Customers

Our customers consist primarily of large pharmaceutical companies, as well as biotechnology, animal health, medical device and diagnostic companies and hospitals,
academic institutions, and government agencies and other life sciences companies. We have many long-term, stable relationships with our customers.

During
2002, in both our research models and our biomedical products and services businesses, more than three-quarters of our sales were to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
and the balance were to hospitals, universities and government agencies. No single customer accounted for 3% or more of our total net sales in 2002 and our top 20 customers accounted for 31.1% of
total net sales in 2002.

For
net sales and long-lived assets attributable to each of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please review Note 15 included in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

For
net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations in the United States, Japan, France and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years, please review
Note 15 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force, the majority of whom work in the United States, with the balance working in Europe
and Japan. The direct sales force is supplemented by a network of international distributors for some areas of our biomedical products and services business.

Our
internal marketing groups support the field sales staff while developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with customers in the biomedical research
industry. We believe our Internet site, www.criver.com, is an effective marketing tool, and has become recognized as a valuable resource in the laboratory animal field by a broad spectrum of industry
leaders.

We
maintain both customer service and technical assistance departments, which service our customers' routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist our customers in solving
problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is recognized as a valuable customer resource.

Research and Development

We do not maintain a fully-dedicated research and development staff. Rather, this work is done on an individual project basis or through collaborations with
universities or other institutions. Our approach to developing new products or services is to extend our base technologies into new applications and fields, and to license or acquire technologies to
serve as platforms for the development of new businesses that service our existing customer base. Our research and development focus is principally on developing projects that improve our productivity
or processes.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare

Among the shared values of our employees is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements in our
industry, and continue to


demonstrate our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical area of our business.

We
support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund internships in
laboratory animal medicine, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding
leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field. One of our businesses dedicates a portion of its net sales, through a royalty, to support similar programs and initiatives.

Employees

As of December 28, 2002, we had approximately 5,000 employees, including nearly 250 science professionals with advanced degrees including D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s
and M.D.s. Our employees are not unionized in the United States, although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local custom for our industry. Our annual
satisfaction surveys indicate that we have a good relationship with our employees.

Competition

Our strategy is to become a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. Our competitors are generally different in each of our business and geographic
areas.

In
our research models business division, our main competitors include three smaller competitors in North America, several smaller ones in Europe, and two smaller ones in Japan. Of our
main United States competitors, two are privately-held businesses and the third is a government-funded, non-profit institution. We believe that none of our competitors for
research models has our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings and pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

We
have many competitors in our biomedical products and services business segment. A few of our competitors in our biomedical products and services business are larger than we are and
may have greater capital, technical or other resources than we do, however, many are smaller and more regionalized. We have a small relative share in the biosafety testing market, where the market
leader is a well-established company, and in medical device testing, where there are many larger competitors.

We
compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality, reputation and availability, supported by our international presence with strategically located facilities.

Regulatory Matters

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the treatment of particular species intended for use in research. The AWA imposes a wide variety of specific regulations on
producers and users of these species, most notably cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and environmental enrichment methods. We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set
by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for handling regulated species, including breeding, maintenance and transportation. However, rats, mice and chickens are not regulated under the
AWA. Congress recently adopted legislation which permanently excludes these species from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States small animal research model activities and our
vaccine support services operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. Our animal production facilities in the United States are accredited by a highly regarded member association known as
AAALAC, which maintains standards that often exceed those of the USDA.

Our
biomedical products and services business is also generally regulated by the USDA, and in the case of our endotoxin detection systems, the FDA. Our manufacture of test kits and
reagents for


endotoxin testing is subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and are
subject to inspection on a routine basis for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulations and Good Manufacturing Practices. These regulations require that we manufacture our products and
maintain our documents in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and control activities.

Corporate Governance

We are committed to operating our business with integrity and accountability. Last summer, the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) submitted a set of corporate
governance standards to the SEC for approval. We either already had in place or have since implemented the relevant standards proposed by the NYSE. For example, seven of our eight Board members are
independent and have no financial, personal or significant business ties to the Company or management, and all of our Board committees,
other than the Executive Committee, are composed of independent directors. The Board adopted corporate governance guidelines and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which has been communicated to
employees and posted on our website. We have always been diligent in complying with established accounting principles and are committed to providing financial information that is transparent, timely
and accurate. We have established a process through which employees, either directly or anonymously, can notify us (and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors) of alleged accounting and
auditing concerns or violations. We created an internal disclosure committee and adopted disclosure procedures and guidelines to help ensure that our public disclosures are accurate and timely, as
recommended by the SEC.

Industry and Market Data

In this Form 10-K, we rely on and refer to information and statistics regarding the research model and biomedical products and services
industries, and our market share in the markets in which we compete. We obtained this information and statistics from various third-party sources, none of which should be considered definitive,
discussions with our customers and/or our own internal estimates. We believe that these sources and estimates are reliable, but we have not independently verified them.

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally.

A significant part of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our
non-U.S. subsidiaries, represented 27.4% of our total net sales in 2002, 27.3% in 2001 and 37.1% in 2000. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant
percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including:

•

foreign
currencies we receive for sales outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue
that we recognize;

•

general
economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

•

potential
increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;

•

potential
trade restrictions and exchange controls;

•

more
limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;


•

difficulties
and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;

•

unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements;

•

the
difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

•

longer
accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

•

import
and export licensing requirements.

Our
operations and financial results could be significantly affected by the above mentioned risks. For example, because the sales and expenses of our foreign operations are generally
denominated in local currencies, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar in the reported results of our foreign operations. These fluctuations may
decrease our earnings. We currently do not hedge against the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The economic situation in some of the foreign countries in which we operate may result in slower
payments of outstanding receivable balances. Our financial results could be adversely affected by weakness in the economies and currencies in these regions.

Threat of future terrorist activity or related U.S. military action may have a negative impact on the economy and our business.

The
current political and business turmoil in many parts of the world, including the threat of future terrorist attacks on the U.S. and other parts of the world and related U.S. military
action, continues to put severe pressure on global economic conditions, and the U.S. economy. Such an effect may have a negative affect on research and development outsourcing and spending, which
would adversely impact our business.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development, or in research and development budgets, may adversely affect our business.

A substantial portion of net sales in our Research Models segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is
partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Although the
level of government research funding has increased during the past several years, we believe this increase may not continue in the short term. Government funding of research and development is subject
to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of
government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund
research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Our customers
generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the U.S. federal government. In the past, grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise
become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause
fluctuations in our sales and operating results.

Our
customers also include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent upon the ability and willingness
of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on research and development at rates close to or at historical levels and to outsource the products and services we provide.
Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development
budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology


companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations.

Our customer contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract for services or multiple contracts for services
could adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Generally, our agreements with our customers provide that the customer can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services under the agreements on little
or no notice. Customers may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including: unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug
being tested; the customer's decision to forego or terminate a particular study; or the loss of funding for the particular research study. If a customer terminates a contract with us, we are entitled
under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs. Primarily in our biomedical products and services segment, cancellation of a large contract or
simultaneous cancellation of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect that segment's business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results.

If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past two years, we have expanded our business through four significant acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business through acquisitions of
businesses and technologies and the formation of alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. Even if completed, acquisitions and
alliances involve numerous risks which may include:

•

difficulties
and expenses incurred in assimilating operations, services, products or technologies;

•

difficulties
in developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;

•

the
potential loss of key employees of an acquired business and difficulties in attracting new employees to grow businesses;

•

difficulties
in assimilating differences in foreign business practices and overcoming language barriers;

•

difficulties
in obtaining intellectual property protections and skills that we and our employees currently do not have; and

•

difficulties
in achieving business and financial success.

In
the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully
integrate acquisitions into our existing business or successfully exploit new business or technologies.

Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in
decreased sales.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of contaminants such as viruses and bacteria because the presence of contaminants can distort or
compromise the quality of research results. Contaminations in our isolated breeding rooms or poultry houses could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production,
harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.


Contaminations
typically require cleaning up the contaminated room or poultry house. This clean-up results in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up
costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost customer orders and credits for prior shipments. These contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict. Several years ago, we experienced a
number of material contaminations in our animal populations that adversely impacted our financial results. Since those experiences, we have made significant capital expenditures designed to strengthen
our biosecurity and have significantly changed our operating procedures. Since making such changes, we have not experienced any significant contaminations.

New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and
services.

For many years, groups within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the
use of living animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Companies have developed several techniques that have scientific merit, especially in the area of cosmetics and household product
testing, markets in which we are not active. Only a few alternative test methods in the discovery and development of effective and safe treatments for human and animal disease conditions have been
validated and successfully deployed. The principal validated non-animal test system is the LAL, or endotoxin detection system, a technology which we acquired and have aggressively marketed
as an alternative to testing in animals. It is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method as it becomes validated as a research model alternative or
adjunct in our markets. However, these methods may not be available to us or we may not be successful in commercializing these methods. Even if we are successful, sales or profits from these methods
may not offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative
research methods could decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales.

The outsourcing trend in the pre-clinical and non-clinical stages of drug discovery and development, meaning contracting out to
others functions that were previously performed internally, may decrease, which could slow our growth.

Some areas of our biomedical products and services business have grown significantly as a result of the increase over the past several years in pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies outsourcing their pre-clinical and non-clinical research support activities. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the
next several years, a substantial decrease in pre-clinical and non-clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our
expected higher-growth areas.

We face significant competition in our business, and if we are unable to respond to competition in our business, our revenues may decrease.

We face significant competition from different competitors in each of our business units. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater
capital, technical or other resources than we do. We generally compete on the basis of quality, reputation and availability of service. Expansion by our competitors into other areas in which we
operate, new entrants into our markets or changes in our competitors' strategies could adversely affect our competitive position. Any erosion of our competitive position may decrease our revenues or
limit our growth.

Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business.

Our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not historically been the subject of animal rights media attention. However, we did
close our small import facility in England in 2000 due in part to protests by animal right activists, which included threats against our facilities and


employees. Future negative attention or threats against our facilities or employees could adversely affect our business.

One of our large animal operations is dependent on a single source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.

We depend on a single, international source of supply for one of our large animal operations. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from export or
import restrictions or embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, or severe weather conditions. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are
unable to secure an alternative or secondary source on comparable commercial terms.

Tax benefits we expect to be available in the future may be subject to challenge.

In connection with our 1999 recapitalization, our then current shareholders, CRL Acquisition LLC (CRL Acquisition) and Bausch & Lomb Incorporated (B&L),
made a joint election intended to permit us to increase the depreciable and amortizable tax basis in our assets for federal income tax purposes, thereby providing us with expected future tax benefits.
In connection with our initial public offering in 2000, CRL Acquisition reorganized, terminated its existence as a corporation for tax purposes and distributed a substantial portion of our stock to
its members. We believe that the reorganization and liquidating distribution should not have any impact on the election for federal income tax purposes. However, it is possible that the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) may contend that this reorganization and liquidating distribution should be integrated with our original recapitalization. If the IRS were to be successful with this contention,
the expected future tax benefits at the time of the recapitalization would not be available and we would be required to write off the related deferred tax asset.

We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief
Executive Officer since 1992, has held various positions with us for 27 years and is our Chairman. We have no employment agreement with Mr. Foster, nor with any other executive officer.
If Mr. Foster or other members of management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.

Because
of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. There is strong competition for
qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss
of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors as the number and scope of ongoing customer
engagements, the commencement, postponement, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in the quarter, changes in the mix of our products and services, the extent of cost overruns, holiday
patterns of our customers, budget cycles of our customers, and exchange rate fluctuations. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of
future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.


Our historical financial information prior to December 25, 1999 may not be representative of our results as a separate company.

On September 29, 1999, CRL Acquisition, a limited liability company owned by affiliates of DLJ Merchant Banking Partners, II, L.P., our management and
other investors, together with our former parent company, B&L, completed a recapitalization transaction. The historical financial information in this Form 10-K for the periods prior
to the recapitalization may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand-alone company prior to the recapitalization. We
made some adjustments and allocations to the historical financial statements for the periods prior to the recapitalization included in this Form 10-K because B&L did not account for
us as a single stand-alone business in those periods. Our adjustments and allocations made in preparing our historical consolidated financial statements may not appropriately reflect our operations
during the periods presented as if we had operated as a stand-alone company.

Item 2. Properties

The following charts provide summary information on our properties. The first chart lists the sites we own, and the second chart lists the sites we lease. Most of
our leases expire from 2003 to 2006. None of these leases are material to our business operations and many have option to renew. We believe that we will be able to successfully renew expiring leases
on terms satisfactory to us.

Sites—Owned

Country

No. of

Sites

Total Square Feet

Principal Functions

Belgium


23,284

Office, Production

Canada


74,069

Office, Production, Laboratory

China


19,372

Office, Production, Laboratory

France


666,100

Office, Production, Laboratory

Germany


154,484

Office, Production, Laboratory

Mexico


88,582

Office, Production, Laboratory

Italy


43,390

Office, Production, Laboratory

Japan


116,340

Office, Production, Laboratory

Ireland


102,619

Office, Production, Laboratory

United Kingdom


58,240

Office, Production, Laboratory

United States


1,130,285

Office, Production, Laboratory

Total


2,476,765

Sites—Leased

Country

No. of

Sites

Total Square Feet

Principal Functions

Australia


8,518

Office, Production

Hungary


11,550

Office, Production, Laboratory

Japan


62,326

Office, Production, Laboratory

Netherlands



Office

Spain


3,228

Office

Sweden


9,073

Sales Office

United States


731,886

Office, Production, Laboratory

Total


826,881


Item 3. Legal Proceedings

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that is not material to our business or
financial condition.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations for the last five years of each our current executive officers. All such persons have been elected to serve
until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.

Thomas F. Ackerman,

age 48, joined us in 1988 with over eleven years of combined public accounting and international finance experience.
He was named Controller, North America in 1992 and became our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In 1999, he was named a Senior Vice President. He is currently responsible for
overseeing our Accounting and Finance Department, as well as our Information Technology Group. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman was an accountant at Arthur Andersen & Co.
Mr. Ackerman received a B.A. in Accounting from the University of Massachusetts and is a certified public accountant.

Christophe Berthoux,

age 41, joined us in 1991 as Sales and Marketing Director in France and became General Manager of our French
operations in 1997. Mr. Berthoux became Vice President of our European operations in 1999, assuming our Southern Europe operations including Italy, Spain, France, and Belgium. In 2002,
Mr. Berthoux was promoted to Corporate Vice President and, in addition to his European duties, assumed responsibility for Transgenic Services and Laboratory and Research Services
worldwide. Mr. Berthoux received a DVM degree from Lyon Veterinary School in 1987 and an Executive MBA from Purdue University's Krannert Graduate School of Management in 1999.

James C. Foster,

age 52, joined us in 1976 as General Counsel. Over the past 25 years, Mr. Foster has held various staff and
managerial positions, and was named our President in 1991, Chief Executive Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000. Mr. Foster received a B.A. from Lake Forest College, a M.S. from the Sloan
School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a J.D. from Boston University School of Law.

Jörg M. Geller

, age 48, joined us in 1986 as a production manager in our animal production facility in Germany and has had
various management positions since then. In 1994, Mr. Geller became Vice President, Charles River Europe, responsible for our activities in Germany and Northern and Eastern Europe. In 1997,
Mr. Geller assumed responsibility for our avian production unit (SPAFAS). Mr. Geller graduated from the veterinary school in Giessen and received his PhD. from the University of Hanover
in 1984. He attended the Advanced Executive Program at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University, in 1994.

Nancy Gillett

, age 47, joined us in September 1999 with the acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett has
18 years of experience as an ACVP board certified pathologist and scientific manager. In 1999, she became Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Sierra Biomedical division with
responsibilities for Sierra's ongoing business operations. In 2002, Dr. Gillett became interim Corporate Vice President of Discovery & Development Services and President & General
Manager of Sierra Biomedical overseeing operations for our Argus Laboratories, PAI, Redfield Laboratories, Springborn Laboratories and Worcester Laboratories divisions. In 2003, Dr. Gillett
became Corporate


Vice President and General Manager of Drug Discovery and Development. Dr. Gillett received her D.V.M from Washington State University and her Ph.D. from the University of California, Davis.

David P. Johst

, age 41, joined us in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1995. He became Vice
President, Human Resources and Administration in 1996, and a Senior Vice President in 1999. He is responsible for overseeing our Human Resources department, our contract staffing business unit and
several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Johst was a corporate associate at Boston's Hale and Dorr. Mr. Johst is a graduate of Dartmouth College,
holds an M.B.A. from Northeastern University and received his J.D. from Harvard University Law School.

Real H. Renaud

, age 55, joined us in 1964 and has 36 years of small animal production and related management experience. In 1986,
Mr. Renaud became Vice President of Production, with responsibility for overseeing the Company's North American small animal operations, and was named Vice President, Worldwide Production in
1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice President and General Manager, European and North American Animal Operations in 1996, following a two-year European assignment during which he provided
direct oversight to our European operations. In 1999, he became a Senior Vice
President and in 2002, Mr. Renaud became Executive Vice President and General Manager, Worldwide Research Model Products and Services. Mr. Renaud attended Columbia University's executive
education program, and has also studied at the Lyon Veterinary School and the Montreal Business School.

Dennis R. Shaughnessy

, age 45, joined us in 1988 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Business Affairs in 1991. He became
Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel in 1994 and is responsible for overseeing the Company's business development initiatives on a worldwide basis, as well as handling the
Company's overall legal affairs. He became a Senior Vice President in 1999. Mr. Shaughnessy also serves as our Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining us, Mr. Shaughnessy was a corporate
associate at Boston's Testa, Hurwitz & Thibeault and previously served in government policy positions. Mr. Shaughnessy has a B.A. from The Pennsylvania State University, an M.S. from The
University of Michigan, an M.B.A. from Northeastern University, and a J.D. from The University of Maryland School of Law.


PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on June 23, 2000 under the symbol "CRL." The following table sets forth for the
periods indicated below closing prices for our common stock, as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape.


High

Low

First quarter (through March 14, 2003)

$

38.55

$

25.45


High

Low

First quarter

$

33.48

$

27.90

Second quarter

38.89

27.80

Third quarter

39.60

29.90

Fourth quarter

40.98

36.55


High

Low

First quarter

$

28.20

$

18.00

Second quarter

34.00

21.55

Third quarter

35.90

28.77

Fourth quarter

37.40

30.60

Shareholders

As of March 14, 2003, there were approximately 157 registered shareholders of the outstanding shares of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past three years, except to our former parent companies, and we do not intend
to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The information required by Item 201(d) will be included in the 2003 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Executive Compensation" and is incorporated
herein by reference thereto.


Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data

The following table presents our selected consolidated financial data and other data as of and for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2002,
December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998. The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 28,
2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 have been derived from the audited Consolidated
Financial Statements for such years, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 25, 1999 and
December 26, 1998 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 20, 2000, December 25, 1999 and December 26, 1998 have been derived from the audited Consolidated Financial
Statements for such years, not included in this Form 10-K. You should read the selected consolidated financial data contained in this table in conjunction with "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.

Fiscal Year (1)






(dollars in thousands)

Statement of Income Data:

Total net sales

$

554,629

$

465,630

$

306,585

$

231,413

$

205,061

Cost of products sold and services provided

345,646

298,379

186,654

146,729

134,307

Selling, general and administrative expenses

83,303

68,315

51,204

39,765

34,142

Amortization of goodwill and intangibles

3,414

8,653

3,666

1,956

1,287

Operating income

122,266

90,283

65,061

42,963

35,325

Interest income

2,120

1,493

1,644



Interest expense

(11,205

)

(22,797

)

(40,691

)

(12,789

)

(421

)

Other income

1,222



(47

)

(58

)

Income before income taxes, minority interests, earnings from equity investments and extraordinary item

114,403

69,479

26,085

30,663

35,832

Provision for income taxes

43,572

27,095

7,837

15,561

14,123

Income before minority interests, earnings from equity investments and extraordinary item

70,831

42,384

18,248

15,102

21,709

Minority interests

(2,784

)

(2,206

)

(1,396

)

(22

)

(10

)

Earnings from equity investments



1,025

2,044

1,679

Income before extraordinary item

68,363

40,650

17,877

17,124

23,378

Extraordinary loss, net of tax

(18,231

)

(5,243

)

(29,101

)

—

—

Net income (loss)

$

50,132

$

35,407

$

(11,224

)

$

17,124

$

23,378

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

$

23,986

$

27,175

$

16,766

$

12,318

$

10,895

Capital expenditures

37,543

36,406

15,565

12,951

11,909

Balance Sheet Data (at end of period):

Cash and cash equivalents

$

122,509

$

58,271

$

33,129

$

15,010

$

24,811

Working capital

164,723

111,622

55,417

27,574

42,574

Total assets

701,344

571,362

413,545

359,292

234,254

Total debt

195,818

156,800

202,912

386,044

1,582

Total shareholders' equity (deficit)

357,376

289,510

119,864

(109,946

)

168,259

(1)

Our
fiscal year consists of 12 months ending on the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.

Overview

We are a leading provider of critical research tools and integrated support services that enable innovative and efficient drug discovery and development. We are
the global leader in providing the animal research models required in research and development for new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in business for more than 55 years. We have two
segments for financial reporting purposes: biomedical products and services, and research models.

In
2002, total net sales grew 19.1% to $554.6 million. Significantly higher sales yielded a gross margin of 37.7%. Higher sales, operating efficiencies and the implementation of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," resulted in operating income of $122.3 million, a 35.4% increase over 2001 and a 22.0%
operating margin, compared to 19.4% in 2001. Our Biomedical Products and Services business segment contributed significantly to our performance, achieving growth of 23.4% in net sales for the year.
Sales from our research models segment grew 13.3% in 2002. For 2002, net income before extraordinary item was $68.4 million, a 68.2% increase over 2001, and diluted earnings per share (EPS)
before extraordinary item grew 54.3% to $1.42. The adoption of SFAS No. 142 impacted EPS by $0.09 per diluted share in 2002.

Our
products and services are currently marketed throughout the world. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, represented 27.4% of
our total net sales in 2002, 27.3% in 2001 and 37.1% in 2000. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future.

Our
biomedical products and services segment contributed 59.7% of total net sales in 2002. One of the largest contributors to this segment's growth in 2002 was our transgenic services
business, where we work alongside researchers using our technologies which enable them to develop new targets, pathways and, ultimately, drugs. Our new 70,000 square foot
state-of-the-art facility, located at our headquarters in
Wilmington, Massachusetts, is rapidly filling to accommodate this segment's greater than 50% revenue growth in 2002. Another contributor to this segment's growth in 2002 was our acquisitions of
Biological Laboratories Europe Limited (BioLabs) and Springborn Laboratories Inc. (Springborn). We acquired BioLabs, our Ireland-based human and animal health testing company, in
June 2002, and Springborn, our Ohio-based drug safety assessment business, in October 2002.

During
2002, our biomedical products and services segment was negatively impacted by several events, all of which occurred in our development services business unit. In late 2002, we
evaluated two of our smaller, non-strategic development businesses that had experienced lower net sales than expected. Both units, analytical chemistry and biopharmaceutical production,
were part of Primedica Corporation, which we acquired in 2001. We consolidated the Primedica analytical chemistry business with our existing business and determined to divest certain assets associated
with our niche biopharmaceutical production business. In total, these two businesses accounted for approximately 2% of total net sales in 2002. Our development business was also adversely affected by
the performance of two of the smallest service areas which accounted for approximately 5% of total net sales in 2002, due to ineffective local management, moderating demand and uneven study execution.
We have since reorganized development services under a senior executive officer and are making structural changes at the local level. We believe these changes will improve operating performance in our
development services business by the end of 2003.

Our
research models segment contributed 40.3% of our total net sales in 2002. The 13.3% gain in net sales for this business segment reflected increased customer demand for our animal
research


models and, in particular, higher sales of our specialty models, such as diabetic rats and immunodeficient mice, and in our standard outbred toxicology models. This year was the first time in over a
decade that worldwide research model sales increased at double-digit levels. In order to accommodate this growth, we added production space in three North America locations. Due to the high level of
fixed costs in our research model segment, incremental sales in this segment are very profitable. Although we increased our infrastructure costs, the net sales increase drove a 39.4% improvement in
operating income and this business continued to generate strong cash flow.

Based
on conversations with some of our key customers, we believe there has been a recent trend for the pharmaceutical and biotechnology drug companies to focus much of their efforts on
early compound screening and on the late-stage discovery phase. This trend towards increasing spending on early screening drove a demand for our research models in 2002 that was greater
than at any time in the last decade. We believe this trend will continue at least through 2003. The early screening of compounds has resulted in a large number of short-term, acute
toxicology studies, rather than the longer-term, sub-chronic and chronic studies that enhanced our services mix in the first three quarters of 2002. The trend towards
increasing spending on late-stage discovery led in part to less spending on our development services business in the fourth quarter of 2002 and we expect that it will continue to do so at least
through the first three quarters of 2003.

Continued
research and development spending by pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions, and funding of research by government agencies, is critical to
our continued
success. A substantial portion of our net sales in our Research Models segment is derived from customers at academic and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on funding from
government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. We also derive revenue directly from government agencies. Continued growth in
funding of research by these government agencies is important to our continued growth. Our customers also include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to
grow is also dependent upon the ability and willingness of these industries to continue to spend on research and development at rates close to or at historical levels and to outsource the products and
services we provide. While we believe that research and development spending will continue in 2003 at least consistent with the increases of the past two years, our business could be adversely
affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by these industries, academic institutions and government agencies.

We
have two reportable segments for financial reporting purposes: research models and biomedical products and services. In addition, our consolidated statements of income also provide a
breakdown of net sales between net sales related to products, which include both research models and biomedical products, and net sales related to services, which reflect biomedical services, and a
breakdown of costs between cost of products sold and cost of services provided. The following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of our reportable segments for the past three
years. They also show


cost of products sold and services provided, selling, general and administrative expenses and operating income by segment and as percentages of their respective segment net sales.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


(dollars in millions)

Net sales:

Research models

$

223.7

$

197.5

$

178.0

Biomedical products and services

330.9

268.1

128.6

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models

$

124.9

$

117.4

$

107.4

Biomedical products and services

220.7

180.9

79.3

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models

$

28.0

$

28.6

$

29.3

Biomedical products and services

40.8

32.5

19.8

Unallocated corporate overhead

14.5

7.2

2.1

Operating income:

Research models

$

70.9

$

50.9

$

40.9

Biomedical products and services

65.9

46.6

26.3

Unallocated corporate overhead

(14.5

)

(7.2

)

(2.1

)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


(as a percent of net sales)

Net sales:

Research models

40.3

%

42.4

%

58.1

%

Biomedical products and services

59.7

%

57.6

%

41.9

%

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models

55.8

%

59.4

%

60.3

%

Biomedical products and services

66.7

%

67.5

%

61.7

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models

12.5

%

14.5

%

16.5

%

Biomedical products and services

12.3

%

12.1

%

15.4

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

2.6

%

1.5

%

0.7

%

Operating income:

Research models

31.7

%

25.8

%

23.0

%

Biomedical products and services

19.9

%

17.4

%

20.5

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

(2.6

)%

(1.5

)%

(0.7

)%


Results of Operations

The following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of net sales for the periods shown:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales

100.0%

100.0%

100.0%

Cost of products sold and services provided

62.3%

64.1%

60.9%

Selling, general and administrative expenses

15.0%

14.7%

16.7%

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles

0.6%

1.9%

1.2%

Interest income

0.4%

0.3%

0.5%

Interest expense

2.0%

4.9%

13.3%

Provision for income taxes

7.9%

5.8%

2.6%

Earnings from equity investment

0.1%

0.1%

0.3%

Minority interests

0.5%

0.5%

0.5%

Income before extraordinary item

12.3%

8.7%

5.8%

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires management to make estimates and use assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates
and assumptions. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which
form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.

Our
significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. A summary of those accounting policies and estimates that we believe are most
critical to fully understanding and evaluating our financial results is set forth below. This summary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We believe our most critical accounting policies and estimates include the following:

•

Goodwill
and other intangible assets

•

Revenue
recognition

•

Pension
plan accounting

•

Income
taxes and deferred tax assets

•

Allowance
for doubtful accounts

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

As a result of businesses we have acquired, we have material
intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable finite and indefinite-lived acquired intangibles. The identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the
estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition, as well as the completion of annual impairment tests, require significant management judgments and estimates. These estimates are made based on,
among others, consultations with an accredited independent valuation consultant, reviews of projected future


income and statutory regulations. Changes in business strategy and/or market conditions may significantly impact these judgments and require adjustments to the recorded asset balances. We performed
transitional and annual impairment tests in 2002 and concluded the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were not impaired.

Revenue Recognition.

We recognize revenue on product and services sales. Recognition of service
revenue is primarily based on the completion of agreed-upon performance criteria. The recognition of service revenue requires management judgments primarily relating to the determination
of the level of service procedures performed during the period. As of December 28, 2002, we had recognized unbilled revenue of $13.3 million and deferred revenue of $27.0 million
in the consolidated balance sheet based on the difference between the estimated level of services performed and the billing arrangements within our service contracts.

Pension Plan Accounting.

We recognize pension plan assets, liabilities and expenses based on
information provided by independent actuaries. The actuaries use assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to employees and allocate this cost to the service periods. The actuarial
assumptions used to calculate pension costs are determined and reviewed annually by management after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed discount rate, which is
intended to be the actual rate at which benefits could effectively be settled, is adjusted based on the change in the long-term treasury bond yield as of the measurement date. As of
December 28, 2002, the discount rate was lowered to 6.0% from 6.5% as of December 29, 2001 due to the lower yields compared to the prior year. The estimated effect of a 0.5% change in
the discount rate is to increase pension expense by $0.4 million in 2003.

The
assumed expected return on plan assets is the average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide future benefits to pension plan participants. If the actual
return is different from the assumed expected return in plan assets, the difference would be amortized over a period of approximately 15 to 20 years. During 2002, we lowered our expected return
on plan assets to 9.0% from 9.5%. This is expected to increase the annual pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2003.

Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets.

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial
statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax exposure and assessing temporary and
permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our
consolidated balance sheet. As part of the 1999 recapitalization transaction, we elected under Internal Revenue Code Section 338(h)(10) to treat the transaction as a purchase resulting in a
step-up in the tax basis of the underlying assets. The election resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset in 1999 in the amount of $99.5 million for the estimated future
tax benefits associated with the increased tax basis of the assets. The balance of this deferred tax asset as of December 28, 2002 was $78.5 million.

We
must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. As of December 28, 2002, we recorded a valuation allowance of $4.1 million on a total net deferred tax asset of $85.8 million. To the extent we increase this
valuation allowance in a period, we must include an expense within the tax provision in the statement of operations. A valuation allowance is currently set against deferred tax assets because
management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets related to certain state net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized through
the generation of future taxable income. We also do not provide for taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, as it is our intention to reinvest undistributed earnings indefinitely.


Significant
management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our future taxable income for purposes of assessing
our ability to realize any future benefit from our deferred tax assets. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods, our operating
results and financial position could be materially affected.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

We establish allowances for doubtful accounts based on our review of
credit profiles of our customers, contractual terms and conditions, current economic trends and payment history. We reassess the allowances for doubtful accounts each period. If we changed our
judgments or utilized different estimates for any period, differences in the amount and timing of revenue or expense recognized could result. The allowance for doubtful accounts was
$1.5 million at December 28, 2002.

Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2002 were $554.6 million, an increase of $89.0 million, or
19.1%, from $465.6 million in 2001. On a pro forma basis, sales increased 13.3% in 2002. Pro forma sales include net sales of our acquisitions as if they had occurred at the beginning of fiscal
2001.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Net sales of biomedical products and services in 2002 were $330.9 million, an
increase of $62.8 million, or 23.4%, compared to $268.1 million in 2001, and represented 59.7% of 2002 net sales. The increase was due to continued growth in outsourcing in the
pharmaceutical industry and our 2002 acquisitions. The acquisitions of BioLabs and Springborn contributed $9.7 million of sales in 2002. Pro forma sales of biomedical products and services
increased 14.1% in 2002 compared to 2001. Our discovery sales growth continued to be driven by transgenic services and contract staffing. Our vaccine support business sales increased during 2002 due
to increased product sales and increased pricing and the consolidation of our Mexican joint venture. The consolidation of our Mexican joint venture added $2.2 million of sales in 2002. Our
development business sales increased due to additional safety assessment studies and biosafety testing, which was partially offset by reduced business at our contract biopharmaceutical production
facility.

Research Models.

Net sales of research models in 2002 were $223.7 million, an increase of $26.2 million, or
13.3%, from $197.5 million in 2001. Net sales of research models represented 40.3% of our 2002 net sales. Sales of our small animal research models in North America, which comprised 43.2% of
research models, increased 15.2% due to an increase in unit volume and a shift to higher-priced specialty units which accounted for 8%, improved pricing of 5% and the additional models from our 2001
acquisition of Genetic Models, Inc. (GMI) which accounted for 2%. Excluding the positive impact from currency translation of $2.9 million, sales of our small animal research models in
Europe, which comprised 27.0% of research models, increased 10.4%, driven in part by an increase in unit volume of 4%, improved pricing of 3% and a shift to higher-priced specialty units which
accounted for 3%. Excluding the unfavorable impact from currency translation of $1.4 million, sales of our small animal research models in Japan, which comprised 20.9% of research models,
increased 8.7% in 2002. The increase was primarily due to increased sales of unique specialty models, through our cooperative agreement with The Jackson Laboratory and market share gains due to
competitor product quality issues. Sales from our large animal breeding and import conditioning business increased $2.8 million in 2002 due to increased pricing and additional unit volume.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 was
$345.6 million, an increase of $47.3 million, or 15.8%, from $298.3 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 was 62.3% of net sales, compared to 64.1%
in 2001, due to operating improvements in both research models and biomedical products and services.


Biomedical Products and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for biomedical products and services in 2002
was $220.7 million, an increase of $39.8 million or 22.0% compared to $180.9 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was 66.7% in
which is favorable compared to the 67.5% in 2001 due mainly to costs growing slower than sales, primarily in our development business.

Research Models.

Cost of products sold and services provided for research models in 2002 was $124.9 million, an
increase of $7.5 million, or 6.4%, compared to $117.4 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 improved to 55.8% of net sales compared to 59.4% of net sales
in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided increased at a lower rate than net sales due to reduced production costs resulting from the closure of a facility in France in 2001 and increased
sales which resulted in improved capacity utilization and greater operating efficiencies.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002
were $83.3 million, an increase of $15.0 million, or 22.0%, from $68.3 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 were 15.0% of net sales compared to
14.7% of net sales in 2001.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for biomedical products and services in 2002
were $40.8 million, an increase of $8.3 million, or 25.5%, compared to $32.5 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 increased to 12.3% of net sales,
compared to 12.1% of net sales in 2001, due to increased administrative and sales and marketing costs in 2002.

Research Models.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for research models in 2002 were $28.0 million, a
decrease of $0.6 million compared to $28.6 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 were 12.5% of net sales, compared to 14.5% in 2001, principally due to
cost savings from greater economies of scale and a charge of $1.5 million associated with the closure of a French facility in 2001.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including those
associated with senior executive salaries and departments such as corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $14.5 million in 2002, compared to $7.2 million in 2001. The
change was caused by decreased pension income of $3.2 million as well as additional costs incurred in investor relations, external reporting, internal audit and legal due to our continued
growth as a public company.

Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangibles.

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles in
2002 was $3.4 million, a decrease of $5.3 million from $8.7 million in 2001. The Company ceased amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets upon the adoption
of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" as of the beginning of 2002. We completed the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test for 2002, which identified
no impairment for 2002.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2002 was $122.3 million, an increase of
$32.0 million, or 35.4%, from $90.3 million in 2001. Operating income in 2002 was 22.1% of net sales, compared to 19.4% of net sales in 2001.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Operating income from sales of biomedical products and services in 2002 was
$65.9 million, an increase of $19.3 million, or 41.4%, from $46.6 million in 2001. Operating income from sales of biomedical products and services in 2002 increased to 19.9% of
net sales, compared to 17.4% of net sales in 2001, due to the improved gross margin and the decrease in amortization due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Pro forma operating income for the
biomedical products and services segment increased 38.0% in 2002 compared to 2001.


Research Models.

Operating income from sales of research models in 2002 was $70.9 million, an increase of
$20.0 million, or 39.3%, from $50.9 million in 2001. Operating income from sales of research models in 2002 was 31.7% of net sales, compared to 25.8% in 2001, due to increased sales,
higher gross margins and lower selling, general and administrative expenses.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2002 was $11.2 million, compared to $22.8 million
in 2001. The $11.6 million decrease was primarily due to the impact of the tender offer for all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes completed during the first quarter of 2002, the repayment
of all of the term loans during the second quarter of 2002, and the lower interest on the 3.5% senior convertible debentures.

Other Income.

Other income for 2002 was $1.2 million compared to $0.5 million for 2001.
The increase was primarily due to net foreign currency gains.

Income Taxes.

The effective tax rate for 2002 was 38.5%, excluding a $0.5 million benefit
associated with the release of the valuation allowance, compared to the effective tax rate of 39.0% for 2001. During the third quarter of 2002, we reassessed the valuation allowance relating to state
income taxes due to recent tax planning initiatives undertaken and the completion of the 2001 state income tax returns. The decrease in the effective tax rate was due to the lower tax rate of BioLabs,
which we acquired in the second quarter of 2002.

Income before Extraordinary Item.

Income before extraordinary item in 2002 was $68.4 million,
an increase of $27.7 million, or 68.1%, from $40.7 million in 2001. Income before extraordinary item for 2002 was 12.3% of net sales compared to 8.7% for 2001. The improvement was driven
by the increase in operating income and the decrease in interest expense offset by increased income taxes.

Extraordinary Loss.

We recorded an extraordinary loss of $18.2 million, net of a tax benefit
of $11.7 million, in 2002. The pre-tax loss of $29.9 million was the result of a premium associated with the debt repayments and the write-off of deferred
financing costs and original issuance discounts. In 2001, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $5.2 million, net of tax benefit of $2.8 million, as a result of the early repayment of
debt.

Net Income.

Net income in 2002 was $50.1 million, an increase of $14.7 million from
$35.4 million in 2001.

Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2001 were $465.6 million, an increase of $159.0 million, or
51.9%, from $306.6 million in 2000. On a pro forma basis, sales increased 15.0% in 2001, or 17.1%, excluding the negative impact from currency translation. Pro forma sales include net sales of
our acquisitions as if they had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2000.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Net sales of biomedical products and services in 2001 were $268.1 million, an
increase of $139.5 million, or 108.5%, compared to $128.6 million in 2000. Pro forma sales of biomedical products and services increased 20.9% in 2001 compared to 2000. We acquired two
businesses during the first quarter of 2001, Pathology Associates International Corporation (PAI) on January 8 and Primedica Corporation (Primedica) on February 27, which contributed
$118.0 million of sales in 2001. On a pro forma basis, PAI and Primedica net sales increased 25.2% over last year.

Research Models.

Net sales of research models in 2001 were $197.5 million, an increase of $19.5 million, or
11.0%, from $178.0 million in 2000. Small animal research model sales increased in North America by 12.2% due to improved pricing, a shift to higher-priced specialty research models and an
increase in unit volume. Excluding the negative impact from currency translation of $1.9 million, small animal research model sales in Europe increased 13.2%, driven in part by increased


equipment sales as well as a shift to higher-priced specialty research models and an increase in unit volume. On a pro forma basis, small animal research model sales in Japan increased 14.7% in 2001,
excluding the negative impact from currency translation. Our large animal breeding and import conditioning business sales decreased by $2.0 million in 2001 due to the closure of our
conditioning facility in the UK during the second quarter of 2000 and the sale of our Florida breeding colony in the first quarter of 2000.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2001 was
$298.3 million, an increase of $111.6 million, or 59.8%, from $186.7 million in 2000. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2001 was 64.1% of net sales, compared to 60.9%
in 2000.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for biomedical products and services in 2001
was $180.9 million, an increase of $101.6 million compared to $79.3 million in 2000. Cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales increased to 67.5% in
2001 from 61.7% in 2000. Cost of products sold and services provided increased as a percentage of net sales in 2001 primarily due to the additions of PAI and Primedica, both of which operated at lower
gross margins than the remainder of our biomedical products and services businesses.

Research Models.

Cost of products sold and services provided for research models in 2001 was $117.4 million, an
increase of $10.0 million, or 9.3%, compared to $107.4 million in 2000. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2001 improved to 59.4% of net sales compared to 60.3% of net sales
in 2000. Cost of products sold and services provided increased at a lower rate than net sales due to increased sales which resulted in improved capacity utilization and improved efficiencies.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001
were $68.3 million, an increase of $17.1 million, or 33.4%, from $51.2 million in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001 were 14.7% of net sales compared to
16.7% of net sales in 2000.

Biomedical Products and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for biomedical products and services in 2001
were $32.5 million, an increase of $12.7 million, or 64.1%, compared to $19.8 million in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001 decreased to 12.1% of net
sales, compared to 15.4% of net sales in 2000, due to cost savings from greater economies of scale and cost reductions realized through our acquisitions of PAI and Primedica. During the fourth quarter
of 2001, we recorded a charge of $1.8 million in selling, general and administrative expenses associated with the closure of our San Diego, California, facility.

Research Models.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for research models in 2001 were $28.6 million, a
decrease of $0.7 million compared to $29.3 million in 2000. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2001 were 14.5% of net sales, compared to 16.5% in 2000, principally due to
economies of scale. We recorded a charge of $1.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in 2001 and 2000, associated with the closure of one of our facilities in France.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses, was
$7.2 million in 2001, compared to $2.1 million in 2000. The change was caused by increased research and development expenses resulting from our technology arrangements, increased
administrative expenses and decreased pension income.

Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangibles.

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles in
2001 was $8.7 million, an increase of $5.0 million from $3.7 million in 2000. The increase was due to the acquisitions of PAI and Primedica.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2001 was $90.3 million, an increase of
$25.2 million, or 38.7%, from $65.1 million in 2000. Operating income in 2001 was 19.4% of net sales, compared to 21.2% of net sales in 2000.


Biomedical Products and Services.

Operating income from sales of biomedical products and services in 2001 was
$46.6 million, an increase of $20.3 million, or 77.2%, from $26.3 million in 2000. Operating income from sales of biomedical products and services in 2001 decreased to 17.4% of
net sales, compared to 20.5% of net sales in 2000, due to the lower operating margins associated with PAI and Primedica, the additional amortization expenses resulting from the acquisitions and the
charge associated with the closure of our San Diego, California, facility partially offset by the lower selling, general and administrative expenses due to the economies of scale realized.

Research Models.

Operating income from sales of research models in 2001 was $50.9 million, an increase of
$10.0 million, or 24.4%, from $40.9 million in 2000. Operating income from sales of research models in 2001 was 25.8% of net sales, compared to 23.0% in 2000, due to increased sales and
higher gross margins primarily from improved capacity utilization.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2001 was $22.8 million, compared to $40.7 million
in 2000. The $17.9 million decrease was primarily due to the reductions of debt in 2001 and 2000 with proceeds from our equity offerings as well as the impact of lower interest rates on our
variable-rate debt.

Other Income.

During 2001, we received insurance proceeds relating to damaged production facilities,
which resulted in a net gain of $0.5 million.

Income Taxes.

The effective tax rate in 2001 of 39.0% compared favorably to the effective tax rate of
48.3% in 2000, excluding the $4.8 million reversal of a portion of the deferred tax valuation allowance in 2000. In 2001, the increased operating income and the impact of reduced leverage
increased our pre-tax income. The greater pre-tax income decreased the impact of the permanent differences on the tax rate and led to better utilization of the foreign tax
credits.

Income before Extraordinary Item.

Income before extraordinary loss in 2001 was $40.7 million,
an increase of $22.8 million from $17.9 million in 2000. The improvement was driven by the increase in operating income and the decrease in interest expense, offset by increased income
taxes.

Extraordinary Loss.

We recorded an extraordinary loss of $5.2 million in 2001. The
pre-tax loss of $8.0 million was the result of a premium associated with the debt repayments and the write-off of deferred financing costs and original issuance
discounts. The related tax benefit was $2.8 million. In 2000, we recorded an extraordinary loss of $29.1 million, net of a tax benefit of $15.7 million, as a result of the early
repayment of debt.

Net Income/Loss.

Net income in 2001 was $35.4 million, an increase of $46.6 million
from a loss of $11.2 million in 2000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and proceeds from our debt and equity offerings.

In
connection with the acquisition of Springborn (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements), we entered into a $6.0 million three-year unsecured
subordinated note. The note is payable in three equal annual installments of principal, together with interest accrued in arrears commencing on October 1, 2003. Interest is payable based on the
one-month LIBOR rate plus 1%, which equaled 2.81% at December 28, 2002.

On
January 24, 2002, we issued $175.0 million par value of senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering. On February 11, 2002, we issued an
additional $10.0 million par value of the senior convertible debentures through the additional purchase option. The senior convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial annual rate of
3.5% which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.50% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2012 and August 1, 2016. Interest is


payable semi-annually in arrears, beginning August 1, 2002. The senior convertible debentures will mature in 2022 and are convertible into shares of our common stock at a fixed
conversion price of $38.87. On or after February 5, 2005, we may redeem for cash all or part of the debentures that have not been previously converted at the redemption prices set forth in the
purchase agreement. Holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their debentures on February 1, 2008, February 1, 2013 or February 1, 2017 at a price equal to
100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued interest. In addition, upon a change in control of our company occurring on or prior to February 1, 2022, each holder may require us
to repurchase all or a portion of such holder's debentures for cash. In 2002, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior convertible debenture offering to retire all of the 13.5% senior
subordinated notes through a tender offer.

On
July 25, 2001, we consummated a public offering of 2,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $29.00 per share. In the offering, 6,000,000 shares of common stock were
sold by existing shareholders. On July 20, 2001, existing shareholders sold an additional 724,700 shares of common stock through the exercise of the over-allotment option. We
received net proceeds of approximately $54.5 million, which we used to repay a portion of our indebtedness and retire obligations incurred in connection with acquisitions made in 2001.

On
March 21, 2001, we consummated a public offering of 3,500,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $19.00 per share. In the offering, 4,550,000 shares of common stock,
which included the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option of 1,050,000 shares, were also sold by existing shareholders. We received net proceeds of approximately
$62.2 million, which we used to repay a portion of our indebtedness and retire obligations incurred in connection with acquisitions made in 2001.

Effective
January 2, 2003, we acquired an additional 19% of the equity (404,321 common shares) of our 66% equity joint venture company, Charles River Japan, from Ajinomoto
Company, Inc. The purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or $10.4 million, which was paid in cash. We are in the process of estimating the fair value of the
incremental net assets acquired.

Historically,
our senior secured credit facilities have also provided liquidity. However, during 2002, we repaid our outstanding senior secured term loan facilities and terminated our
revolving credit facility. We are currently negotiating a $100-125 million line of credit, which we expect to close in March 2003. As a result of the termination of our
revolving credit facility, we were required to transfer $5 million into a separate bank account to support outstanding letters of credit. This amount is reported as restricted cash in our
consolidated financial statements. As of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, we had approximately $4.1 million and $2.5 million, respectively, outstanding under
letters of credit.

Additionally,
we are pursuing the sale of certain assets associated with our contract production business which should have a favorable, but immaterial, effect on 2003 cash flow. As
consideration for the BioLabs acquisition, we will pay $1.8 million to certain former shareholders of BioLabs over a three-year period, of which $0.6 million is due in 2003.
In 2003, we expect capital expenditures, pension contributions and dividends paid to minority interests to be consistent with prior years.

We
anticipate that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service obligations as they become due. We
currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. However, Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. is a holding company with no operations or assets
other than its ownership of 100% of the common stock of its subsidiary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc. We have no source of liquidity other than dividends from our subsidiary.


Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $122.5 million at December 28, 2002, compared to $58.3 million at December 29, 2001.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2002 and 2001 was $133.7 million and $71.3 million, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily a
result of improved performance during 2002 and our reduction of accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding decreased to 64 days as of December 28, 2002, from 74 days as of
December 29, 2001, primarily due to improved collection efforts.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2002 and 2001 was $78.9 million and $91.9 million, respectively. The net cash used in investing activities in 2002 represented cash
of $42.5 million used to acquire BioLabs and Springborn and capital expenditures of $37.5 million. This compared to 2001 during which we used net cash of $55.3 million to acquire
PAI, Primedica and GMI and $36.4 million for capital expenditures.

Net
cash provided by financing activities in 2002 and 2001 was $5.2 million and $47.2 million, respectively. During 2002, we issued $185.0 million par value of
senior convertible debentures. We used $79.7 million of the proceeds to repay all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes. During 2002, we used $68.6 million to repay our outstanding
senior secured credit facilities. This compared to 2001 when net cash included $116.7 million of proceeds from our public offerings and $40 million from our bank financing, partially
offset by repayment of debt.

Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 28, 2002 are as follows:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1 – 3

Years

4 – 5

Years

After

5 Years

Long-term debt

$

195.3

$

2.9

$

5.7

$

1.4

$

185.3

Interest payments

125.7

7.0

13.9

13.5

91.3

Capital lease obligations

0.5

0.5

—

—

—

Operating leases

38.8

10.6

15.4

11.2

1.6

Unconditional purchase obligations

5.1

2.3

2.8

—

—

Total contractual cash obligations

$

365.4

$

23.3

$

37.8

$

26.1

$

278.2

Fiscal 2001 Compared to Fiscal 2000

Cash and cash equivalents of the Company totaled $58.3 million at December 29, 2001 compared with $33.1 million at December 30, 2000.
Our principal sources of liquidity were cash flows from operations and proceeds from our public offerings.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2001 and 2000 was $71.3 million and $33.8 million respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily a
result of improved performance during 2001.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2001 and 2000 was $91.9 million and $14.6 million, respectively. The increase in cash used was a result of our business
acquisitions. During 2001, we used net cash of $55.3 million to acquire PAI, Primedica and GMI. In the first quarter of 2000, we used net cash of $6.0 million to acquire an additional
16% of equity in Charles River Japan. Also, in order to grow our existing businesses, we incurred capital expenditures in 2001 and 2000 of $36.4 million and $15.6 million, respectively.

Net
cash provided by financing activities in 2001 and 2000 was $47.2 million and $0.8 million, respectively. During 2001, we consummated two follow-on stock
offerings which provided $116.7 million in net proceeds. We used $104.5 million of the proceeds to repay portions of our existing debt and


capital lease obligations. Also the Company received $40.0 million from our bank financing which was used in the purchases of PAI and Primedica.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure," which amended SFAS
No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends SFAS No. 123 disclosure requirements to require more prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements
about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The annual disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 are effective for
us as of December 28, 2002 and the interim disclosure requirements will be effective during the first quarter of fiscal year 2003. As permitted under both SFAS No. 123 and SFAS
No. 148, we continue to follow the intrinsic value method of accounting under Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

On
November 25, 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees
of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of FASB Statement
No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," relating to the guarantor's accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. FIN 45 requires that, upon issuance of a
guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation. FIN 45 is applicable to guarantees that encompass guarantees based on changes in an underlying asset,
liability or equity security, guarantees that are made on behalf of another entity's
performance, certain indemnification agreements and indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 are effective prospectively for guarantees
issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2002. We have made the required disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements as of December 28, 2002 and are in the process of assessing the impact of FIN 45 recognition and measurement provisions on the consolidated financial
statements.

In
November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached final consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables." EITF Issue No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of a vendor's accounting for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. It
provides additional guidance as to how revenue should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 is effective prospectively for revenue
arrangements entered into during fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. We are in the process of assessing the impact of EITF Issue No. 00-21 on our consolidated
financial statements.

In
July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," which nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue
No. 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." SFAS
No. 146 requires a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. If
fair value cannot be reasonably estimated, the liability shall be recognized initially in the period in which fair value can be reasonably estimated. In periods subsequent to the initial measurement,
changes to the liability resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash flows shall be recognized as an adjustment to the liability in the period of the change. The
provisions of SFAS No. 146 will be effective for us prospectively for exit or disposal


activities initiated after December 28, 2002. We are in the process of assessing the impact of SFAS No. 146 on our consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections."
SFAS No. 145 eliminates the requirement that gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of the related income tax
effect. However, an entity would not be prohibited from classifying such gains and losses as extraordinary items so long as they are both unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence. This provision
of SFAS No. 145 will be effective for the Company as of the beginning of fiscal year 2003. The Company expects to reclassify losses on extinguishment of debt that have been classified as an
extraordinary item in prior periods presented.

In
July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for
an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity is required to capitalize the cost by increasing the carrying amount of the
related long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of
the related asset. SFAS No. 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 and will be adopted by the Company effective fiscal 2003. The Company believes adoption of
this standard will not have a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Certain of our financial instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rates.

The
fair value of long-term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest
rates rise and decrease as interest rates fall. In addition, the fair value of our senior convertible debentures would be impacted by our stock price. The estimated fair value of our
long-term debt at December 28, 2002 was $236.7 million. Fair values were determined from available market prices, using current interest rates and terms to maturity.

During
2002, we terminated our revolving credit facility and repaid all of our variable-rate term loans. Our senior convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial rate
of 3.50%, which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.50% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2012 and August 1, 2016. Fluctuations in interest rates will
not affect the interest payable on the senior convertible debentures, which is fixed through August 1, 2007.

We
generally do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

We
also have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for the cash flows received from our foreign affiliates. This risk is mitigated by the fact that their
operations are conducted in their respective local currencies. Currently, we do not engage in any foreign currency hedging activities.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Page

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Accountants


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedules:

Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


Supplementary Data:

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)



Report of Independent Accountants

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.:

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 28, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed
in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets," and changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 30, 2001.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

Boston,
Massachusetts

February 3, 2003


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales related to products

$

291,622

$

251,259

$

229,217

Net sales related to services

263,007

214,371

77,368

Total net sales

554,629

465,630

306,585

Costs and expenses

Cost of products sold

164,442

147,354

136,161

Cost of services provided

181,204

151,025

50,493

Selling, general and administrative

83,303

68,315

51,204

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles

3,414

8,653

3,666

Operating income

122,266

90,283

65,061

Other income (expense)

Interest income

2,120

1,493

1,644

Interest expense

(11,205

)

(22,797

)

(40,691

)

Other income and expense

1,222



Income before income taxes, minority interests, earnings from equity investments and extraordinary item

114,403

69,479

26,085

Provision for income taxes

43,572

27,095

7,837

Income before minority interests, earnings from equity investments and extraordinary item

70,831

42,384

18,248

Minority interests

(2,784

)

(2,206

)

(1,396

)

Earnings from equity investments



1,025

Income before extraordinary item

68,363

40,650

17,877

Extraordinary loss, net of tax benefit of $11,651, $2,823 and $15,670, respectively

(18,231

)

(5,243

)

(29,101

)

Net income (loss)

$

50,132

$

35,407

$

(11,224

)

Earnings per common share before extraordinary item

Basic

$

1.53

$

0.99

$

0.64

Diluted

$

1.42

$

0.92

$

0.56

Earnings (loss) per common share after extraordinary item

Basic

$

1.12

$

0.86

$

(0.40

)

Diluted

$

1.06

$

0.80

$

(0.35

)

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands)

December 28,


December 29,


Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

122,509

$

58,271

Restricted cash

5,000

—

Trade receivables, less allowances of $1,540 and $2,119, respectively

94,245

98,478

Inventories

43,892

39,056

Other current assets

12,446

14,349

Total current assets

278,092

210,154

Property, plant and equipment, net

187,875

155,919

Goodwill, net

96,532

52,087

Other intangibles, net

34,204

38,287

Investments in affiliates

—

3,002

Deferred tax asset

80,884

87,781

Other assets

23,757

24,132

Total assets

$

701,344

$

571,362

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities

Accounts payable

$

13,084

$

13,868

Accrued compensation

31,825

25,736

Deferred income

27,029

22,210

Accrued liabilities

28,357

28,899

Accrued income taxes

7,036

4,048

Other current liabilities

6,038

3,771

Total current liabilities

113,369

98,532

Long-term debt

192,420

155,506

Capital lease obligations



Accrued ESLIRP

11,195

11,383

Other long-term liabilities

8,353

3,082

Total liabilities

325,401

268,864

Commitments and contingencies (Note 13)

Minority interests

18,567

12,988

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 120,000,000 shares authorized 45,218,693 and 44,189,650 shares issued and outstanding at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively



Capital in excess of par value

601,728

588,909

Retained earnings (deficit)

(233,036

)

(283,168

)

Loans to officers

—

(341

)

Unearned compensation

(2,201

)

(316

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

(9,567

)

(16,016

)

Total shareholders' equity

357,376

289,510

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

701,344

$

571,362

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income (loss)

$

50,132

$

35,407

$

(11,224

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

23,986

27,175

16,766

Amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts

1,741

1,403

2,104

Non-cash compensation

1,002


—

Accretion of debenture and discount on note

—

—

6,500

Provision for doubtful accounts

(25

)

1,550


Extraordinary loss, net of tax

18,231

5,243

29,101

Earnings from equity investments

(316

)

(472

)

(1,025

)

Minority interests

2,784

2,206

1,396

Deferred income taxes

11,260

17,190

(887

)

Windfall tax benefit from exercises of employee stock options

4,669

1,891

—

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment

3,526

1,118

1,243

Other non-cash items

—

—

(1,021

)

Changes in assets and liabilities

Restricted cash

(5,000

)

—

—

Trade receivables

11,739

(28,037

)

(1,114

)

Inventories

(1,645

)

(3,762

)

(2,343

)

Other current assets

2,450

(730

)


Other assets


(2,163

)

(4,837

)

Accounts payable

(3,753

)


(1,141

)

Accrued compensation

3,792

4,467

6,757

Deferred income

5,170

10,241

(2,420

)

Accrued liabilities

(6,943

)

(2,377

)

(467

)

Accrued income taxes

2,990


(619

)

Other current liabilities

3,009

(613

)

(5,556

)

Accrued ESLIRP

(188

)

1,267

1,801

Other long-term liabilities

4,276

(986

)

(320

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

133,659

71,298

33,768

Cash flows relating to investing activities

Capital expenditures

(37,543

)

(36,406

)

(15,565

)

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

(42,498

)

(55,265

)

(6,011

)

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment

1,156

—

—

Contingent payments for prior year acquisitions

—

(250

)

—

Proceeds from sale of animal colony

—

—

7,000

Net cash used in investing activities

(78,885

)

(91,921

)

(14,576

)

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from long-term debt and revolving credit facility

188,922

41,915

—

Payments on long-term debt and payments on revolving credit facility

(157,739

)

(104,462

)

(202,632

)

Premium paid for early retirement of debt

(23,886

)

(3,841

)

(31,532

)

Payments of deferred financing costs

(6,123

)

(984

)

(694

)

Payments on capital lease obligations

(143

)

(4,202

)

(324

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of transaction fees

—

116,691

235,964

Proceeds from exercises of employee stock options

3,137

1,380

—

Proceeds from exercise of warrants

2,136


Dividends paid to minority interests

(1,470

)

(729

)

—

Repayment of officer loans



—

Net cash provided by financing activities

5,175

47,230


Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

4,289

(1,465

)

(1,855

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

64,238

25,142

18,119

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

58,271

33,129

15,010

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

122,509

$

58,271

$

33,129

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for interest

$

9,569

$

21,470

$

37,638

Cash flows relating to operating activities

Cash paid for taxes

$

15,893

$

5,868

$

8,539

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

Total

Retained

Earnings

Accumulated Other

Comprehensive

Income

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess of

Par

Loans to

Officers

Unearned

Compensation

Balance at December 25, 1999

$

(109,946

)

$

(307,351

)

$

(8,813

)

$


$

206,940

$

(920

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net loss

$

(11,224

)

$

(11,224

)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation

(2,558

)

—

(2,558

)

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(1,033

)

—

(1,033

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

(14,815

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Deferred tax asset

(4,537

)

—

—

(4,537

)

—

—

Issuance of common stock

235,964

—


235,803

—

—

Redeemable common stock classified outside of equity

13,198

—

—

—

13,198

—

—

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

119,864

$

(318,575

)

$

(12,404

)

$


$

451,404

$

(920

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

35,407

$

35,407

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation

(3,550

)

—

(3,550

)

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(62

)

—

(62

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

31,795

—

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock

116,691

—

—


116,636

—

—

Exercise of stock options

1,380

—

—


1,378

—

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options

1,891

—

—

—

1,891

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—



—

—

Issuance of restricted stock related to business acquisitions

16,375

—

—


16,368

—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—

—


—

(368

)

Amortization of unearned compensation


—

—

—

—

—


Repayment of officer loans


—

—

—

—


—

Balance at December 29, 2001

$

289,510

$

(283,168

)

$

(16,016

)

$


$

588,909

$

(341

)

$

(316

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

50,132

$

50,132

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation

5,892

—

5,892

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment


—


—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

56,581

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of stock options

3,137

—

—


3,133

—

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options

4,669

—

—

—

4,669

—

—

Exercise of warrants

2,136

—

—


2,131

—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—


2,886

—

(2,887

)

Amortization of unearned compensation

1,002

—

—

—

—

—

1,002

Repayment of officer loans


—

—

—

—


—

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

357,376

$

(233,036

)

$

(9,567

)

$


$

601,728

$

—

$

(2,201

)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amount)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company with no operations or assets other than
its ownership of 100% of the outstanding common stock of Charles River Laboratories, Inc.(CRL) The Company is a leading provider of critical research tools and integrated support services that
enable innovative and efficient drug discovery and development. The Company's fiscal year is the twelve-month period ending the last Saturday in December. On June 5, 2000, a
1.927-to-1 exchange of stock was approved by the Board of Directors of the Company in connection with the Company's initial public offering (Note 2). This exchange of
stock was effective June 21, 2000. All earnings per common share amounts, references to common stock and shareholders' equity have been restated as if the exchange of stock had occurred as of
the earliest period presented.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts, transactions and profits are eliminated. Affiliated
companies over which the Company does not have the ability to exercise control are accounted for using the equity method (Note 12). Results for three majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded on
a one- month lag basis. There were no material transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date and December 28, 2002.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, as such, include amounts based on informed estimates
and judgments of management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the purchase date of three months or less.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash consists of cash reserved to support outstanding letters of credit. The Company was required to restrict $5,000 of cash as a result of the
termination of the revolving credit facility in 2002, which previously supported the outstanding letters of credit.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts which it believes is adequate to cover anticipated losses on the collection of all outstanding trade
receivable balances. The adequacy of the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information, a review of major customer accounts
receivable balances and management's assessment of current economic conditions. The Company reassesses the allowance for doubtful accounts each period.


Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined principally on the average cost method. Costs for large animals are accumulated in
inventory until the animals are sold.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, including improvements that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are recorded at cost, while maintenance
and repairs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is calculated for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as
follows: buildings, 20 to 40 years; machinery and equipment, 2 to 20 years; furniture and fixtures, 5 to 7 years; vehicles, 2 to 4 years; and leasehold improvements, the
shorter of estimated useful life or the lease periods.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Effective at the beginning of fiscal year 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, "Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets," which establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite
lived intangible assets are no longer amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their
estimated useful lives.

SFAS
No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment and, in
transition, this step must be measured as of the beginning of the year of adoption. The second step of the impairment test measures the amount of the impairment loss. The Company completed the
transitional and annual impairment tests in 2002 and concluded there was no impairment of goodwill. Intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life are tested for impairment using a
one-step process which compares the fair value to the carrying amount of the asset. These transitional and annual impairment tests were completed during 2002 and the
Company concluded there was no impairment of identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Other Assets

Other assets consist primarily of the cash surrender value of life insurance policies and a defined benefit plan pension asset.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," in 2002. The Company
evaluates long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when
estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, the carrying value of
long-lived assets is reduced to the estimated fair value, as determined using an appraisal or discounted cash flow, as appropriate.


Stock-Based Compensation Plans

As permitted under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic
value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
No. 44 (FIN 44), "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation—an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25." Also, the Company accounts for variable
restricted stock grants under the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 28, "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Options Award Plans." The Company recognizes
compensation expenses for fixed and variable restricted stock grants over the restriction period.

SFAS
No. 123 requires the presentation of certain pro forma information as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value method. For purposes of
this disclosure,
the fair value of the fixed option grants was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for option grants:

Risk-free interest rate

4.13

%

Volatility factor

51.24

%

Weighted average expected life (years)


The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company's employee stock options have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates, in management's opinion,
the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options. However, for each period presented, management believes the Black-Scholes
model is the most appropriate option valuation model. The weighted average Black-Scholes fair value for the 2002, 2001 and 2000 grants was $17.62, $17.59 and $8.98, respectively.

Had
compensation expense for the Company's option grants been determined consistent with the provision of SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income (loss) for the years ended
December 28, 2002,


December 29, 2001, and December 30, 2000 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:




Reported net income (loss)

$

50,132

$

35,407

$

(11,224

)

Add: Stock-based employee compensation included in reported net income, net of tax



—

Less: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all awards, net of tax

(6,204

)

(4,164

)

(1,356

)

Pro forma net income (loss)

$

44,544

$

31,275

$

(12,580

)

Reported basic earnings (loss) per share

$

1.12

$

0.86

$

(0.40

)

Pro forma basic earnings (loss) per share

$

1.00

$

0.76

$

(0.45

)

Reported diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

1.06

$

0.80

$

(0.35

)

Pro forma diluted earnings (loss) per share

$

0.95

$

0.71

$

(0.40

)

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue on product and service sales.

The
Company recognizes revenue related to its products, which include research models,

in vitro

technology and vaccine support products in
accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." Revenue is recorded when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, generally
in the form of customer purchase orders, title and risk of loss has transferred, which occurs upon delivery of the products, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably
assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the
product is delivered to the customer's site. Product sales are recorded net of returns at the time revenue is recognized.

The
Company's service revenue is comprised of toxicology, pathology, laboratory and transgenic services and contract staffing and is generally evidenced by customer contracts. Toxicology
services provide highly specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. Pathology services provide the ability to
identify and characterize pathologic changes within tissues and cells in determining the safety of a new compound. Laboratory services monitor and analyze health and genetics of research models used
in research protocols. Transgenic services include validating, maintaining, breeding and testing research models for biomedical research activities. Contract staffing services provides management of
animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology organizations.

The
toxicology and pathology services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up to approximately 24 months in length. These agreements are negotiated
for a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic services and contract staffing are of a
longer-term nature, from six months to five years, and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified in the contract. The Company records service revenue in accordance with SAB
No. 101.


The
Company's service revenues are recognized upon the Company's completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance criteria are generally in the form of either study
protocols or specified activities or procedures which the Company is engaged to perform. These criteria are established by the Company's customers and do not contain acceptance provisions which are
based upon the achievement of certain study or laboratory testing results.

Unbilled
and deferred revenue is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets based on the difference between the levels of services performed and the billing arrangements specified in
the Company's service contracts.

Guarantees

The Company includes standard indemnification provisions in its customer contracts. Customer contracts also include standard provisions limiting the Company's
liability under such contracts, including the Company's indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of the Company's significant financial instruments, which include accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate their fair values at
December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001. The fair value of the Company's financing instruments (Note 3) was $236,721 at December 28, 2002.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The asset and liability approach underlying SFAS
No. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of the
Company's assets and liabilities.

Foreign Currency Translation

In accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation," the financial statements of all non-U.S. subsidiaries are translated into U.S.
dollars as follows: assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income, expenses and cash flows at average exchange rates; and shareholders' equity at historical exchange rates. The
resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet. Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are
recorded as other income or expense. The Company recorded exchange gains of $1,222 and $36 in 2002 and 2001, respectively, and an exchange loss of $319 in 2000.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables from customers in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. As these industries have experienced significant growth and the customers are predominantly well established and viable, the Company believes its exposure
to credit risk to be minimal.


Stockholders' Equity

Retained earnings includes approximately $2,000 of accumulated earnings which are restricted due to statutory requirements in the local jurisdiction of a foreign
subsidiary as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." As it relates to the Company,
comprehensive income is defined as net income plus the sum of the change in currency translation adjustments and the changes in the minimum pension liabilities (collectively, other comprehensive
income) and is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, net of tax.

Pension Obligations

The Company recognizes obligations associated with its defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87 "Employers Accounting for Pensions."
Assets, liabilities and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As required by SFAS No. 87, the Company is required to make certain assumptions (Note 10) to value
the plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually, or whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on reviews of current plan information and consultations with
independent investment advisors and actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high degree of judgment and may materially change from period to period. The Company does not offer other defined
benefits associated with post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions.

Restructuring Costs

The Company recognizes obligations associated with restructuring activities in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 94-3
"Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" and SAB No. 100, "Restructuring and
Impairment Charges." The overall purpose of the Company's restructuring actions is to lower overall operating costs and improve profitability by reducing excess capacities. Restructuring charges
(Note 5) are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the period the plan was approved by the Company's senior management
and, where material, the Company's Board of Directors. As of January 1, 2003, the Company will adopt SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,"
which nullifies EITF Issue No. 94-3.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding adjusted for contingently issuable
shares. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include the number of additional common shares that would have been
outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued (Note 6).


New Accounting Pronouncements

In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure," which amended SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends SFAS No. 123 disclosure requirements to require more prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements
about the method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The annual disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 are effective for
the Company as of December 28, 2002 and the interim disclosure requirements will be effective during its first quarter of fiscal year 2003. As permitted under both SFAS No. 123 and SFAS
No. 148, the Company continues to follow the intrinsic value method of accounting under APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

On
November 25, 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees
of Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of SFAS Nos. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for
Contingencies," relating to the guarantor's accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. FIN 45 requires that, upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must
recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation. FIN 45 is applicable to guarantees that encompass guarantees based on changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security,
guarantees that are made on behalf of another entity's performance, certain indemnification agreements and indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The recognition and measurement provisions
of FIN 45 are effective prospectively for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for reporting periods ending after December 15,
2002. The Company has made the required disclosures in the
consolidated financial statements as of December 28, 2002 and is in the process of assessing the impact of FIN 45 recognition and measurement provisions on its consolidated financial
statements.

In
November 2002, the EITF reached final consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables." EITF Issue
No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of a vendor's accounting for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. It provides additional guidance as
to how revenue should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into during
fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of EITF Issue No. 00-21 on its consolidated financial statements.

In
July 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities," which nullifies EITF Issue No. 94-3,
"Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." SFAS No. 146 requires a liability
for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. If fair value cannot be reasonably
estimated, the liability shall be recognized initially in the period in which fair value can be reasonably estimated. In periods subsequent to the initial measurement, changes to the liability
resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash


flows shall be recognized as an adjustment to the liability in the period of the change. The provisions of SFAS No. 146 will be effective for the Company prospectively for exit or disposal
activities initiated after December 28, 2002. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of SFAS No. 146 on its consolidated financial statements.

In
April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections."
SFAS No. 145 eliminates the requirement that gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt be aggregated and, if material, classified as an extraordinary item, net of the related income tax
effect. However, an entity would not be prohibited from classifying such gains and losses as extraordinary items so long as they are both unusual in nature and infrequent in occurrence. This provision
of SFAS No. 145 will be effective for the Company as of the beginning of fiscal year 2003. The Company expects to reclassify losses on extinguishment of debt that have been classified as an
extraordinary item in prior periods presented.

In
July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for
an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When the liability is initially recorded, the entity is required to capitalize the cost by increasing the carrying amount of the
related long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. SFAS
No. 143 is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 and will be adopted by the Company effective fiscal 2003. The Company believes adoption of this standard will not have
a material effect on its consolidated financial statements.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior year financial statements and related notes have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. These reclassifications
have no impact on previously reported net income (loss) or cash flow.

2. Public Offerings

On July 25, 2001, the Company consummated a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $29.00 per share. The Company issued
2,000,000 shares of common stock and existing shareholders sold 6,000,000 shares. On July 30, 2001, existing shareholders sold an additional 724,700 shares of common stock through the exercise
of the overallotment option. The Company received proceeds of $54,469, net of the underwriters' commission and offering costs.

On
March 21, 2001, the Company consummated a public offering of 8,050,000 shares of common stock at a price of $19.00 per share. The Company issued 3,500,000 shares of common
stock and existing shareholders sold 4,550,000 shares, which included the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option of 1,050,000 shares. The Company received proceeds of $62,222,
net of the underwriters' commission and offering costs.

On
June 28, 2000, the Company consummated an initial public offering (the IPO) of 16,100,000 shares of its common stock at a price of $16.00 per share. The number of shares
includes the exercise of an over-allotment option by the underwriters. The Company received proceeds of $235,964, net of


underwriters' commissions and offering costs. Proceeds from the IPO were used to repay a portion of the Company's existing debt as described below.

The
sources and uses of cash from our 2001 public offerings and the 2000 IPO are as follows:


Offerings


IPO

Sources of Funds:

Proceeds from offerings

$

124,500

$

257,600

Cash on hand

—


$

124,500

$

257,900

Uses of Funds:

Repayment of senior subordinated notes

$

21,403

*

$

59,588

*

Repayment of subordinated discount notes

—

46,884

Repayment of senior discounted debentures

—

66,792

*

Repayment of term loan A

11,500

14,500

Repayment of term loan B

34,500

43,500

Repayment of term loan C

11,500

—

Repayment of revolving credit facility

17,000

5,000

Repayment of convertible note

9,210

*

—

Repayment of other debt and early paydown of capital lease obligations

11,578

—

Transaction fees and expenses

7,809

21,636

$

124,500

$

257,900

*

Includes
issuance discount and premiums on early repayments

3. Long-Term Debt

In connection with the acquisition of Springborn Laboratories, Inc. (Springborn) (Note 4), the Company entered into a $6,000 three-year
unsecured subordinated note. The note is payable in three equal annual installments of principal, together with interest accrued in arrears commencing on October 1, 2003. Interest is payable
based on the one month LIBOR rate plus 1%, which was 2.81% at December 28, 2002.

On
September 26, 2002, the Company terminated its revolving credit facility. As of the termination date, there were no amounts due under the revolving credit facility. The Company
recorded an extraordinary loss before tax of $613 due to the write-off of deferred financing costs. The extraordinary loss was recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements net of a tax benefit of $236. As a result of this termination, the Company was required to transfer $5,000 into a separate bank account to support outstanding letters of credit. This amount
is reported as restricted cash in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. As of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, the Company had $4,708 and $2,463 under letters of
credit outstanding, respectively.

On
May 29, 2002, the Company repaid all of the outstanding senior secured term loan facilities, including a $14,000 term loan A facility, a $41,100 term loan B facility and a
$13,500 term loan C


facility. The Company recorded an extraordinary loss before tax of $1,790 due to the write-off of deferred financing costs. The extraordinary loss was recorded in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements net of a tax benefit of $698.

On
February 14, 2002, the Company completed a tender offer for $79,728 par value for all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes. The Company recorded an extraordinary loss before
tax of $27,479, due to the payment of premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt ($23,886) and the write-off of deferred financing costs ($2,726) and issuance discounts ($867).
The extraordinary loss was recorded in the accompanying consolidated financial statements net of a tax benefit of $10,717.

On
January 24, 2002, the Company issued $175,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering. On February 11, 2002, the Company issued
an additional $10,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through the additional purchase option. The Company received approximately $179,450, net of underwriter discounts. The senior
convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial annual rate of 3.5%, which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.50% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2012
and August 1, 2016. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears, beginning August 1, 2002. The senior convertible debentures will mature in 2022 and are convertible into
shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion price of $38.87. This conversion price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. On or after February 5, 2005, the Company may
redeem for cash all or part of the debentures that have not been previously converted at the redemption prices set forth in the purchase agreement. Holders may require the Company to
repurchase for cash all or part of their debentures on February 1, 2008, February 1, 2013 or February 1, 2017 at a price equal to 100% of the par value of the debentures plus
accrued interest up to but not including the date of repurchase. In addition, upon a change in control of the Company occurring on or prior to February 1, 2022, each holder may require the
Company to repurchase all or a portion of such holder's debentures for cash. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior convertible debenture offering to retire all of the 13.5%
senior subordinated notes through the tender offer discussed above.

In
connection with the 2001 acquisition of Pathology Associates International Corporation (Note 4), the Company entered into a $12,000 callable convertible note. The convertible
note had a five-year term and bore interest at 2% per annum. The principal and accrued interest of this convertible note was repaid as of December 28, 2002.

During
fiscal 2001, the Company used a portion of the proceeds from the 2001 offerings (Note 2) to repay debt. The Company recorded an extraordinary loss before tax of $8,066, due
to the payment of premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt ($3,841) and the write-off of deferred financing costs ($2,372) and issuance discounts ($1,853). The Company recorded
an extraordinary loss in the accompanying consolidated financial statements net of tax benefits of $2,823.

In
connection with the acquisition of an additional 16% of its joint venture company, Charles River Japan, on February 28, 2000 (Note 4), the Company entered into a
400 million yen, or $3,670, three year promissory note with Ajinomoto Co., Inc. The note was denominated in Japanese Yen and translated to U.S. dollars for financial statement purposes.
The note bore interest at the long-term prime rate in Japan, and was secured by the additional 16% of equity acquired. The principal and accrued interest of this note was repaid as of
December 28, 2002.


During fiscal 2000, the Company used a portion of the proceeds from the 2000 IPO (Note 2) to repay debt. The Company recorded an extraordinary loss before
tax of $44,771 due to the payment of premiums relating to the early extinguishment of debt ($31,532) and the write-off of issuance discounts ($8,537) and deferred financing costs ($5,226),
offset by a book gain of $524 on the subordinated discount note. The Company recorded an extraordinary loss in the accompanying consolidated financial statements net of a tax benefit of $15,670.

Long
term debt consists of the following:

December 28,


December 29,


Senior convertible debentures, original principal amount of $185,000, convertible into common stock at a price of $38.87, interest payable semi-annually in arrears beginning August 1, 2002, at an initial and current
annual rate of 3.5% at December 28, 2002, matures February 1, 2022

$

185,000

$

—

Unsecured subordinated note, original principal of $6,000 payable in three equal annual installments commencing October 1, 2003 with interest due in arrears, interest based on LIBOR plus 1%, 2.81% at December 28, 2002

6,000

—

Senior subordinated notes, original principal amount of $150,000, due October 1, 2009, interest payable semi-annually in arrears at a fixed rate of 13.5% per annum

—

78,852

Senior secured credit facilities:

Term loan A facility, original principal amount of $40,000, due October 1, 2005, interest payable quarterly in arrears at either a base rate or LIBOR plus 1.75%

—

14,000

Term loan B facility, original principal amount of $120,000, due October 1, 2007, interest payable quarterly in arrears at either a base rate plus 2.50% or LIBOR plus 3.75%

—

41,100

Term loan C facility, original principal amount of $25,000, due October 14, 2007, interest payable quarterly in arrears at either a base rate or LIBOR plus 3.25%

—

13,500

Secured promissory note, principal and interest payable monthly, interest fixed at 10.5%, matures June 2007, secured by real estate

2,997

3,552


Callable convertible note, original principal amount of $12,000, quarterly principal payments of $600, interest due in arrears fixed at 2% per annum, balance convertible into common stock under certain conditions at $23.38.

—

2,536

Secured balloon promissory note, interest based on long-term Japan rate, secured by additional 16% equity acquired on February 28, 2000, original principal amount of $3,670, due February 28, 2003.

—

1,556

Secured promissory note, principal and interest payable semi-annually, interest fixed at 2.6%, matures March 25, 2006, secured by real estate



Other long-term debt, represents secured and unsecured promissory notes, interest rates between 5.5% and 16.5% at December 28, 2002, maturing between December 2004 and July 2012.



Total debt

195,281

156,265

Less: current portion of long-term debt

(2,861

)

(759

)

Long-term debt

$

192,420

$

155,506

Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 28, 2002 are as follows:

Fiscal Year


$

2,861


2,838


2,911





Thereafter

185,283

Total

$

195,281

As
part of the recapitalization in 1999, the Company issued to the DLJ Merchant Banking Partner II, L.P. (DLJMB) and affiliated funds and other investors senior discount
debentures with detachable warrants (the DLJMB Warrants) for $37,600. The Company has estimated the fair value of the warrants to be $8,478 and allocated the $37,600 of proceeds between the discount
debentures ($29,122) and the warrants ($8,478). The senior discount debentures were repaid in full during the third quarter of 2000. The portion of the proceeds allocated to the DLJMB Warrants will
entitle the holders thereof to purchase one share of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of not less


than $0.01 per share subject to customary anti-dilution provisions and other customary terms. The DLJMB Warrants are exercisable at any time through April 1, 2010. As of
December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, there were 0 and 97,387 DLJMB Warrants outstanding, respectively.

Also,
as part of the recapitalization transaction, the Company issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a $1,000 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.596 shares of common
stock of the Company for total proceeds of $150,000. As discussed above, the senior subordinated notes were fully repaid on February 14, 2002. The Company allocated the $150,000 offering
proceeds between the senior subordinated notes ($147,872) and the warrants ($2,128), based upon the estimated fair value. The portion of the proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital
in excess of par in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each warrant entitles the holder, subject to certain conditions, to purchase 7.596 shares of common stock of the Company at an
exercise price of $5.19 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment under some circumstances. Upon exercise, the holders of warrants would be entitled to purchase 558,341 and 969,881 shares of
common stock of the Company as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively. The warrants currently expire on October 1, 2009.

4. Business Acquisitions

The Company acquired several businesses during the three-year period ended December 28, 2002. The results of operations of the acquired
businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the following:

On
October 1, 2002, CRL, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired 100% of the voting equity interests of privately-held Springborn. Consideration, including
acquisition expenses, was $26,452, net of cash acquired of $634. Consideration consisted of $20,452 in cash and $6,000 was paid in the form of a three-year unsecured subordinated note.
Springborn provides expertise in short to mid-term toxicology studies. Springborn was acquired to strengthen service offerings of the Company's existing biomedical products and services
segment. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations."

On
June 7, 2002, Charles River Europe GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CRL, acquired 100% of the voting equity interests of privately-held Biological Laboratories
Europe Limited (BioLabs). Consideration, including acquisition expenses, was $22,900, net of cash acquired of $2,998. The consideration consisted of $21,012 in cash and $1,888 in future payments, of
which approximately $629 is recorded in current liabilities and the remaining amount is recorded in long-term liabilities, which are to be paid to certain former shareholders of BioLabs
over a three-year period. BioLabs, located in western Ireland, provides a broad range of services supporting the discovery, development and manufacturing of pharmaceutical, medical devices
and animal and human health products. BioLabs was acquired to strengthen the Company's existing biomedical products and services segment by adding new capabilities to service the large and growing
global animal health and medical device industry. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141.


The
final purchase price allocations associated with the 2002 BioLabs and Springborn acquisitions are as follows:

Springborn

BioLabs

Current assets

$

2,506

$

1,661

Property, plant and equipment

4,486

7,612

Other non-current assets

—


Current liabilities

(4,323

)

(1,724

)

Non-current liabilities

—

(1,372

)

Estimated fair value, net assets acquired

2,669

6,247

Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

23,783

16,653

Consideration, net of cash acquired

$

26,452

$

22,900

Springborn

BioLabs

Weighted average

amortization life (years)

Customer relationships

$

9,500

$

4,407

10.0

Trade names and trademarks

—


3.0

Other identifiable intangibles

1,100

1,070

5.7

Goodwill

13,183

10,982

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

23,783

$

16,653

9.3

In
addition to the BioLabs and Springborn acquisitions, the Company acquired two companies during 2002 with an aggregate net purchase price of $1,034.

On
October 2, 2002, the Company entered into an agreement with Proteome Systems, Ltd. (Proteome) to establish a joint venture. The Company owns 80% of the newly established
joint venture company, Charles River Proteomics Services, Inc. (Charles River Proteomics), which was initially capitalized with $6,000, consisting of $5,000 in cash and a $1,000 working capital
loan provided by the Company and Proteome, in proportion to their equity interests. Proteome has an option exercisable until April 2, 2003 to increase its equity position in Charles River
Proteomics to 40%, while the Company has an option exercisable beginning on January 1, 2006 to purchase up to 100% of the equity in Charles River Proteomics based on the fair market value at
the time of exercise. Charles River Proteomics was established to strengthen the Company's existing biomedical products and services segment by adding new capabilities in the area of drug discovery
and development. The Company began consolidating the operations of Charles River Proteomics from the date of the agreement.

On
August 20, 2002, the Company amended the joint venture agreement for Charles River Mexico, which was accounted for under the equity method. Upon execution of the amendment, the
Company gained control over the operations. The Company's ownership percentage of 50.1% did not change as a result of this amendment and no additional contributions were made. The Company began
consolidating the operations of Charles River Mexico from the date of the amendment. Upon consolidation, the Company reversed its equity investment of $3,203, and recognized goodwill of $581


and minority interest of $2,587. Results of operations in 2002 were not materially impacted from the consolidation. Charles River Mexico is an extension of the Company's avian business.

On
July 20, 2001, CRL purchased 100% of the common stock of Genetic Models, Inc. (GMI) for cash consideration of $4,000. This acquisition was recorded as a purchase
business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141.

Effective
February 27, 2001, CRL acquired Primedica Corporation (Primedica) for consideration of $51,107, including acquisition expenses. Consideration was comprised of $25,708 of
cash, $16,375 of the Company's common stock and $9,024 in assumed debt. This acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with APB No. 16, "Business Combinations."

On
January 8, 2001, CRL purchased 100% of the common stock of Pathology Associates International Corporation (PAI). Consideration of $35,238, including acquisition expenses, was
paid with respect to this acquisition, consisting of $25,557 of cash and a $12,000 callable convertible note (Note 3). Consideration of $9,681 was recorded with respect to the convertible note
due to an issuance discount. The cash consideration was funded in part through a $15,000 drawdown from the Company's revolving credit facility. This acquisition was recorded as a purchase business
combination in accordance with APB No. 16.

The
finalized purchase price allocations associated with the 2001 PAI, Primedica and GMI acquisitions are as follows:

PAI

Primedica

GMI

Net current assets

$

3,126

$

4,303

$


Property, plant and equipment

1,276

24,594


Non-current assets



—

Non-current liabilities

—

(859

)

(44

)

Estimated fair value, net assets acquired

4,561

28,073


Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

30,677

23,034

3,438

Consideration, net of cash acquired

35,238

51,107

4,000

Less: assumed debt

—

(9,024

)

—

$

35,238

$

42,083

$

4,000

PAI

Primedica

GMI

Workforce*

$

2,970

$

15,000

$

—

Trade names and trademarks

2,000

1,000

—

Customer contracts

2,550

—

—

Standard operating procedures



—

Research models

—

—

3,438

Other identifiable intangibles

—


—

Goodwill

23,017

5,565

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

30,677

$

23,034

$

3,438

*

In
connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 141, workforce has been reclassified to goodwill (Note 16).


Net
current assets in the above Primedica purchase price allocation includes a $530 severance liability recorded in accordance with EITF Issue No. 95-3
"Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination." This liability relates to severance benefits to be provided to certain Primedica employees. Approximately $137 and $379
of these severance benefits were paid during 2002 and 2001, respectively. The remaining payments will be made by the end of the first quarter of 2003.

On
February 28, 2000, the Company acquired an additional 16% of the equity (340,840 common shares) of its 50% equity joint venture company, Charles River Japan, from Ajinomoto
Co., Inc. (Ajinomoto). The purchase price for the equity was 1.4 billion yen, or $12,844. One billion yen, or $9,174, was paid at closing, and the balance of 400 million yen, or
$3,670, was deferred pursuant to a three-year balloon promissory note secured by a pledge of the additional 16% of shares acquired. Effective with the acquisition of this additional
interest, the Company had control of, and has consolidated, the operations of Charles River Japan. The estimated fair value of the incremental net assets acquired was $6,207 and goodwill of $6,637 was
recorded upon consolidation. Effective January 2, 2003, the Company acquired an additional 19% equity interest in Charles River Japan which increased the Company's ownership interest to 85%
(Note 16). Charles River Japan is an extension of the Company's research model business.

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of the period immediately
preceding the period of acquisition after giving effect to certain adjustments for the amortization of goodwill and related income tax effects. The pro forma data is for informational purposes only
and does not necessarily reflect the results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods reported. No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been realized
through the acquisitions.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales

$

576,325

$

508,631

$

443,135

Operating income

125,279

94,018

71,038

Income before extraordinary item

69,509

42,298

17,932

Net income (loss)

51,278

37,055

(11,233

)

Earnings per common share before extraordinary item

Basic

$

1.55

$

1.03

$

0.65

Diluted

$

1.44

$

0.96

$

0.57

Earnings (loss) per common share after extraordinary item

Basic

$

1.14

$

0.90

$

(0.40

)

Diluted

$

1.08

$

0.84

$

(0.35

)

Refer
to Note 6 for further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.


Pro
forma net sales related to research models were $223,766, $199,508 and $187,831 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Pro forma net sales related to biomedical products and services
were $352,559, $309,123 and $255,304 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Pro forma operating income related to research models was $70,917, $51,333 and $43,256 for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Pro forma operating income related to biomedical products and services was $68,911, $49,923 and $29,891 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Unallocated corporate overhead was $14,549,
$7,238 and $2,109 for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

5. Restructuring Charges and Disposals

During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $1,788, including asset disposals of $1,041, employee
separation of $477 and other charges of $270, associated with the closure of a San Diego, California, facility. The restructuring plan included the severance of approximately 40 employees and the exit
of a facility utilized under an operating lease. During 2002, the Company recorded an additional $292 charge relating to the remaining lease obligation at the
facility based on the Company's revised estimate of expected sublease income generated over the remaining lease term.

During
the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $1,290, including asset disposal of $212, associated with the closure of a facility
in France. During 2001, the Company recorded additional pre-tax charges of $1,915, which includes a write down of assets held for sale of $400 and additional severance payments and other
related expenses of $1,515, relating to the settlement of labor disputes which originated during the first quarter of 2001. Approximately 60 employees were terminated as a result of the restructuring.

A
summary of the activities associated with the above restructuring charges and the related liabilities balance are as follows:

Employee

Separations

Other

Total

December 30, 2000

$


$


$

1,078

Amounts paid

(1,471

)

(180

)

(1,651

)

Additional charges

1,828


2,262

December 29, 2001

$

1,350

$


$

1,689

Amounts paid

(1,076

)

(243

)

(1,319

)

Additional charges

—



December 28, 2002

$


$


$


The
Company has closed both the San Diego facility and the French facility and expects the reserves to be fully utilized by 2004. All terminated employees had separated from the Company
by the end of the third quarter of 2002.

On
March 10, 2000, the Company announced the closure of its Shamrock primate import and conditioning business in Small Dole, England. This closure was completed during the second
quarter of


2000. Animal sales previously made by Shamrock were not significantly affected by the closure. A charge of $751 related to the closure was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in
the first quarter of 2000. This reserve was fully utilized in the second quarter of 2000.

During
January 2000, the Company sold a product line within its research model business segment. The selling price of $7,000 approximated the net book value of the underlying
assets at the time of the sale. In addition, the Company had approximately $900 of deferred revenue which was related to cash payments received in advance of delivery of research models. Under the
terms of the sale agreement, the Company was no longer obligated to ship the research models and, accordingly, recorded this amount as income in the first quarter of 2000.

6. Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 was computed by dividing earnings
available to common shareholders for these periods by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding in the respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable shares.

The
weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the years ended December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000 have been adjusted to include
common stock equivalents for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share before and after the extraordinary item for these periods.

Options
to purchase 141,624 shares and 715,625 shares were outstanding at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively, but were not included in computing diluted
earnings per share because
their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. All options and potentially dilutive securities outstanding as of December 30, 2000 have been included because their inclusion has
been dilutive.


The following table illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share before and after the extraordinary
item:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Numerator:

Income before extraordinary item

$

68,363

$

40,650

$

17,877

Extraordinary loss, net of tax benefit

(18,231

)

(5,243

)

(29,101

)

Income (loss) after extraordinary item for purposes of calculating basic earnings (loss) per share

50,132

35,407

(11,224

)

After-tax equivalent of interest expense on:

3.5% senior convertible debenture

3,698

—

—

2% convertible note



—

Income (loss) for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share.

$

53,838

$

35,498

$

(11,224

)

Denominator:

Weighted average shares outstanding — Basic*

44,681,601

40,998,558

27,737,677

Effect of dilutive securities:

3.5% senior convertible debenture

4,419,847

—

—

Stock options and contingently issued restricted stock

1,061,243

1,125,034

1,336,965

Warrants

685,219

1,963,476

2,659,712

2% convertible note

8,813

128,315

—

Weighted average shares outstanding — Diluted

50,856,723

44,215,383

31,734,354

Basic earnings per share before extraordinary item

$

1.53

$

0.99

$

0.64

Basic (loss) per share on extraordinary item

(0.41

)

(0.13

)

(1.04

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share after extraordinary item

$

1.12

$

0.86

$

(0.40

)

Diluted earnings per share before extraordinary item

$

1.42

$

0.92

$

0.56

Diluted (loss) per share on extraordinary item

(0.36

)

(0.12

)

(0.91

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share after extraordinary item

$

1.06

$

0.80

$

(0.35

)

*

Weighted
average shares outstanding for 2002 and 2001 excluded the weighted average impact of 20,000 and 0 shares, respectively, of contingently issuable shares. In addition, weighted
average shares outstanding for 2002 and 2001 excluded the weighted average impact of 61,669 and 11,500 shares, respectively, of non-vested fixed restricted stock awards.


7. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information

The composition of inventories is as follows:

December 28,


December 29,


Raw materials and supplies

$

5,966

$

5,225

Work in process

3,730

2,484

Finished products

34,196

31,347

Inventories

$

43,892

$

39,056

The
composition of property, plant and equipment is as follows:

December 28,


December 29,


Land

$

10,888

$

9,626

Buildings

182,160

148,372

Machinery and equipment

140,103

121,473

Leasehold improvements

13,512

9,380

Furniture and fixtures

3,232

2,576

Vehicles

2,539

2,351

Construction in progress

18,219

19,443

370,653

313,221

Less accumulated depreciation

(182,778

)

(157,302

)

Net property, plant and equipment

$

187,875

$

155,919

Depreciation
expense for 2002, 2001, and 2000 was $20,572, $18,522, and $13,099, respectively.

The
composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Foreign

Currency

Translation

Adjustment

Minimum

Pension

Liability

Adjustment

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

(10,105

)

$

(2,299

)

$

(12,404

)

Period change

(4,007

)

(459

)

(4,466

)

Tax benefit




Balance at December 29, 2001

(13,655

)

(2,361

)

(16,016

)

Period change

9,252


10,150

Tax benefit

(3,360

)

(341

)

(3,701

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

(7,763

)

$

(1,804

)

$

(9,567

)


8. Leases

Capital Leases

The Company has one capital lease for a building and numerous capital leases for equipment. These leases are capitalized using interest rates considered
appropriate at the inception of each lease. Assets recorded in connection with these capital leases are not material.

Capital
lease obligations amounted to $537 and $535 at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively, with maturities through 2006 at interest rates ranging from
5.1% to 8.8%. Future minimum lease payments under capital lease obligations at December 28, 2002 are as follows:


$








Total minimum lease payments


Less amount representing interest

(45

)

Present value of net minimum lease payments

$


Operating Leases

The Company has various operating leases for machinery and equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. Rent expense for all operating leases was
$10,448, $10,045 and $5,926 in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one
year or more, consist of the following at December 28, 2002:


$

10,611


9,357


6,019


3,513


7,659

Thereafter

1,637

$

38,796


9. Income Taxes

An analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests, earnings from equity investments and extraordinary item and the related provision
for income taxes is presented below:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Income before equity in earnings of foreign subsidiaries, income taxes and minority interests

U.S.

$

83,263

$

51,772

$

14,407

Non-U.S.

31,140

17,707

11,678

$

114,403

$

69,479

$

26,085

Income tax provision

Current:

Federal

$

17,233

$


$

—

Foreign

11,671

7,747

5,646

State and local

3,408

1,396

—

Total current

32,312

9,905

5,646

Deferred:

Federal

9,354

16,523

6,688

Foreign


(1,098

)

(447

)

State and local

1,492

1,765

(4,050

)

Total deferred

11,260

17,190

2,191

$

43,572

$

27,095

$

7,837

The
Company recorded an extraordinary loss before tax benefit of $29,882 and $8,066 in connection with the early repayment of debt in 2002 and 2001, respectively
(Note 3). The tax benefit recorded associated with the extraordinary losses was $11,651 and $2,823, respectively. During the third quarter of 2000, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss
before tax benefit of $44,771 in connection with the early extinguishment of debt upon the consummation of the IPO (Note 3). The tax benefit associated with this loss was $15,670.


Net
deferred taxes, detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes and such amounts
measured in accordance with tax laws.

December 28,


December 29,


Current:

Accruals

$


$

1,161

Net operating loss carryforwards

—

7,540


8,701

Non-current:

Goodwill and other intangibles

75,666

82,671

Net operating loss and credit carryforwards

14,109

7,030

Depreciation and amortization

1,749


Other

(6,589

)

2,274

84,935

92,305

Valuation allowance

(4,051

)

(4,524

)

80,884

87,781

Total deferred taxes

$

81,699

$

96,482

The
Company recorded the balance of the net deferred tax asset on the belief that it is more likely than not that it will be realized. This belief is based upon a review
of all available evidence, including historical operating results, projections of taxable income, and tax planning strategies.

In
conjunction with the state tax planning initiatives and the completion of the 2001 state income tax returns during the third quarter of 2002, the Company reassessed the valuation
allowance on the deferred tax assets associated with state net operating loss carryforwards. As a result of the reassessment, $473 of the valuation allowance was released and recorded as a tax
benefit.

As
a result of the repayment of debt in 2000, the Company's interest expense significantly decreased, which has resulted in higher profitability. Accordingly, during the second quarter
of 2000, the Company reassessed the need for a valuation allowance relating to state income taxes associated with the deferred tax asset balance recorded on the 1999 recapitalization transaction. As a
result of the reassessments, the valuation allowance was reduced by $4,762 in the second quarter of 2000, and the reduction was recorded as a tax benefit. This release of the valuation allowance was
offset by an increase of $3,007, pertaining mainly to a reassessment of the realization of state income taxes associated with the extraordinary loss recorded in the third quarter of 2000.

In
connection with the 1999 recapitalization transaction, the Company elected under Internal Revenue Code Section 338(h)(10) to treat the transaction as a purchase resulting in a
step up in the tax basis of the underlying assets. The election resulted in the recording of a deferred tax asset in 1999, net of valuation allowance, of approximately $99,506 for the estimated future
tax benefits associated with the increased tax basis of the assets. The Company expects to realize the net benefit of the deferred tax asset over a 15 year period from the date of the
recapitalization transaction. For financial


reporting purposes. the benefit was treated as a contribution to capital in 1999. During the second quarter of 2000, the tax purchase price allocation pertaining to the Section 338(h)(10)
election described above was finalized. An adjustment was recorded to reduce the net deferred tax asset balance by $5,395 and the related valuation allowance by $858, with the offset of $4,537 being
recorded to capital in excess of par in the second quarter of 2000.

The
net deferred tax asset pertaining to the election under section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code, which totaled $78,544, is expected to be realized through annual tax
deductions which are expected to reduce future tax payments. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may
challenge the availability of the Section 338(h)(10) election to the Company as a result of the Company's reorganization in connection with the initial public offering in 2000. If the IRS were
successful, the expected future tax benefits from the election would not be available and the Company would be required to write off the related deferred tax assets by recording a
non-recurring expense in the results of operations in an amount equal to such deferred tax assets. The Company believes that the reorganization and liquidating distribution should not have
any impact upon the election for federal income tax purposes. However, the IRS may reach a different conclusion.

As
of December 28, 2002, the Company had pre-tax net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $7,319 and $32,134,
respectively, expiring between 2004 and 2020. Additionally, the Company has foreign tax credit carryforwards of $10,358 which will begin to expire in 2004.

Reconciliations
of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Tax at statutory U.S. tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Foreign tax rate differences

1.0

%

2.2

%

3.8

%

Non-deductible goodwill amortization

—

0.6

%

1.5

%

State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit

3.1

%

2.4

%

2.3

%

Change in valuation allowance before extraordinary item

(0.4

)%

—

(16.1

)%

High-yield debt interest

—

—

2.4

%

Other

(0.6

)%

(1.2

)%

1.1

%

38.1

%

39.0

%

30.0

%

The
Company elects to treat certain foreign subsidiaries in France, Germany and the United Kingdom as disregarded entities for U.S. federal and state income tax purpose
and, accordingly, is providing for U.S. federal and state income taxes on such earnings. The Company's other foreign subsidiaries have accumulated earnings that are considered to be indefinitely
reinvested and, accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to
both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign countries.


10. Employee Benefits

The Company sponsors one defined contribution plan and three defined benefit plans. The Company's defined contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories
Employee Savings Plan, qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. It covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby the Company matches a percentage
of employee contributions. The costs associated with the defined contribution plan totaled $2,397, $1,400, and $716 in 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

One
of the Company's defined benefit plans, the Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan, is a qualified, non-contributory plan that covers certain U.S.
employees. Benefits are based on participants' final average monthly compensation and years of service. Participants' rights vest upon completion of five years of service. Effective January 1,
2002, the plan was amended to exclude new participants from joining the plan. Benefit criteria offered to existing participants as of the amendment date did not change. Also, certain portions of
participant benefits were transferred from the ESLIRP to this plan in 2002.

Under
another defined benefit plan, the Company provides some executives with supplemental retirement benefits. This plan, the Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan
(ESLIRP), is unfunded and non-qualified under the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act of 1974. The Company has, however, taken out several key person life insurance
policies with the intention of using their cash surrender value to fund the ESLIRP Plan. At December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, the cash surrender value of these policies was $8,218
and $7,985, respectively.

The
Charles River Japan defined benefit pension plan is a non-contributory plan that covers all employees of Charles River Japan. Benefits are based upon length of service
and final salary.


The
following table provides reconciliations of the changes in benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and funded status of the three defined benefit plans.

Fiscal Year



Reconciliation of benefit obligation

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

39,641

$

36,498

Service cost

2,406

1,874

Interest cost

2,538

2,180

Benefit payments

(1,227

)

(1,089

)

Actuarial loss

5,240


Plan amendments

1,594

—

Effect of foreign exchange


(216

)

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

50,352

$

39,641

Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

37,705

$

47,487

Actual return on plan assets

(4,005

)

(9,472

)

Employer contributions



Benefit payments

(1,227

)

(1,089

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

33,398

$

37,705

Funded status

Funded status

$

(16,954

)

$

(1,936

)

Unrecognized transition obligation



Unrecognized prior-service cost

1,498

(23

)

Unrecognized loss

13,967

1,691

Accrued benefit cost

$

(1,470

)

$

(95

)

Amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheet

Accrued benefit cost

$

(4,529

)

$

(4,071

)

Intangible asset



Accumulated other comprehensive income

3,046

3,879

Net amount recognized

$

(1,470

)

$

(95

)

Key
weighted-average assumptions used in the measurement of the Company's benefit obligations are shown in the following table:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Discount rate

6.0%

6.5%

6.5%

Expected return on plan assets

9.0%

9.5%

10%

Rate of compensation increase

4.75%

4.75%

4.75%


The
following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost for the three defined benefit plans for 2002, 2001, and 2000:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Components of net periodic benefit cost (income):

Service cost

$

2,406

$

1,874

$

1,386

Interest cost

2,538

2,180

2,040

Expected return on plan assets

(3,340

)

(4,295

)

(5,132

)

Amortization of transition obligation




Amortization of prior-service cost


(5

)

(5

)

Amortization of net loss (gain)


(934

)

(1,625

)

Net periodic benefit cost (income)

$

2,241

$

(1,095

)

$

(3,182

)

The
projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
plan assets were $17,739, $15,147 and $3,033 at December 28, 2002 and $15,955, $14,665, and $2,279 at December 29, 2001.

The
Company had an adjusted minimum pension liability of $3,046 ($1,804, net of tax) and $3,879 ($2,361, net of tax) at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001,
respectively, which represented the excess of the minimum accumulated net benefit obligation over previously recorded pension liabilities.

11. Stock Compensation Plans

As part of the 1999 recapitalization, the equity investors agreed and committed to establish a stock option plan for the Company for the purpose of providing
significant equity incentives to management. The 1999 Management Incentive Plan (the 1999 Plan) is administered by the Company's Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 1999 Plan has a
total of 1,784,384 shares authorized, of which 35,417 shares are available for grant as of December 28, 2002. Awards of 30,000 non-qualified stock options were granted under the
1999 Plan in 2002. There were no awards granted under the 1999 plan in the years ended December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000. As of December 28, 2002, options to purchase
1,175,384 shares were exercisable under the 1999 Plan. Options granted pursuant to the 1999 Plan are subject to a vesting schedule based on three distinct measures. Certain options vest solely with
the passage of time (incrementally over five years so long as the optionee continues to be employed by the Company). The remainder of the options vest over time but contain clauses providing for the
acceleration of vesting upon the achievement of certain performance targets or the occurrence of certain liquidity events. All options expire on or before December 2, 2012. The exercise price
of all options granted under the 1999 Plan is the fair market value of the underlying common stock at the time of the grant.

Effective
June 5, 2000, the Board of Directors adopted and the Company's shareholders approved the 2000 Incentive Plan (the 2000 Plan), which provides for the grant of incentive
and nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted common stock and other equity awards. The 2000 Plan has a total of 3,789,000 shares authorized, of which 1,373,215
are available for


grant as of December 28, 2002. Options granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan vest incrementally over three years so long as the employee continues to be employed by the Company. All options
granted under the 2000 Plan expire on or before December 2, 2012. The exercise price of all the options granted under the 2000 Plan is the fair value of the underlying common stock at the time
of grant. A total of 1,248,125, 741,900 and 476,300 stock option awards were made under the 2000 Plan in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, of which 432,028 awards were exercisable as of
December 28, 2002.

Under
the Company's 2000 Plan, shares of restricted common stock of the Company may be granted at no cost to officers and key employees. Plan participants are entitled to cash dividends
and to vote their respective shares. Restrictions limit the sale or transfer of these shares until they vest, which is typically over a three-year period. Upon issuance of restricted stock
awards under the plan, unearned compensation equivalent to the market value at the measurement date is charged to shareholders' equity and subsequently amortized as compensation expense over the
vesting period. The Company granted 54,100 and 11,500 restricted stock awards at no cost and recorded $1,740 and $368 as unearned compensation in shareholders' equity for the years ended
December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively. The Company recorded $416 and $52 in compensation expense for these stock awards for the years ended December 28, 2002 and
December 29, 2001, respectively. No restricted stock was awarded in the year ended December 30, 2000. Additionally, the Company issued 30,000 performance-based restricted stock awards at
no cost to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President during the year ended December 28, 2002. Vesting of these awards is contingent upon the achievement of certain annual earnings per
share growth targets over the vesting period. These shares are accounted for as variable awards and the related unearned compensation and compensation expense are adjusted based on the closing market
price of the Company's common stock until the shares are vested. The Company recorded $1,147 as unearned compensation and $586 in compensation expense in connection with these awards in 2002. The
weighted average fair value of the restricted stock awards issued during 2002 and 2001 was $32.15 and $31.97, respectively. As of December 28, 2002, a total of 91,669 restricted stock awards
were outstanding.

In
conjunction with the 2000 Plan, the Board of Directors adopted and the Company's shareholders approved the 2000 Directors Stock Plan (Directors Plan), which provides for the grant of
both automatic and discretionary nonstatutory stock options to non-employee directors. On the day of each annual meeting of stockholders, each independent director who served during the
prior year will be awarded an option to purchase shares of our common stock (pro-rated if the director did not serve for the entire preceding year). The Directors Plan has a total of
100,000 shares authorized, of which 4,000 shares are available to be granted as of December 28, 2002. Awards of 24,000, 12,000 and 60,000 stock options were granted under the Directors Plan in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. There are currently 72,000 options exercisable under the Directors Plan. Options granted pursuant to the Directors Plan cliff vest upon the earlier of the first
anniversary of the date of grant or the business day prior to the date of the Company's next annual meeting. All options granted expire on or before May 3, 2007. The exercise price of the
options granted under the Directors Plan is the fair market value of the underlying common stock at the time of grant.


The following table summarizes stock option activities under the 1999 Plan, the 2000 Plan, and the Directors Plan:

Shares

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Options outstanding as of December 25, 1999

1,726,332

$

5.33

$

5.33

Options granted

536,300

$

16.00 - $27.38

$

16.60

Options exercised

—

—

—

Options canceled

(16,500

)

$

16.00

$

16.00

Options outstanding as of December 30, 2000

2,246,132

$

5.33 - $27.38

$

7.94

Options granted

753,900

$

25.00 - $35.08

$

31.38

Options exercised

(207,507

)

$

5.33 - $16.00

$

6.66

Options canceled

(43,377

)

$

5.33 - $31.97

$

21.41

Options outstanding as of December 29, 2001

2,749,148

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

14.38

Options granted

1,302,125

$

29.66 - $39.25

$

32.81

Options exercised

(424,516

)

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

7.39

Options canceled

(92,578

)

$

16.00 - $39.00

$

30.81

Options outstanding as of December 28, 2002

3,534,179

$

5.33 - $39.25

$

21.60

Options exercisable as of December 28, 2002

1,679,412

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

10.83

Options
exercisable were 1,556,275 and 75,958 as of December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000, respectively.

OPTIONS OUTSTANDING

OPTIONS EXERCISABLE

Range of

Exercise Prices

Outstanding as of

December 28,


Weighted Average

Remaining Contractual

Life (years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise Price

Exercisable as of

December 28,


Weighted

Average

Exercise Price

$

5.00 - $10.00

1,175,384

6.8

$

5.33

1,175,384

$

5.33

$

10.01 - $20.00

388,747

6.6

$

16.00

256,448

$

16.00

$

20.01 - $30.00

46,444

6.8

$

27.20

23,031

$

27.49

$

30.01 - $40.00

1,923,604

9.1

$

32.54

224,549

$

32.03

3,534,179

8.0

$

21.60

1,679,412

$

10.83

12. Joint Ventures

The Company holds investments in several joint ventures including Charles River Proteomics, Charles River Mexico and Charles River Japan (Note 4). These
joint ventures are separate legal entities whose purpose is consistent with the overall operations of the Company and represent geographic and business segment expansions of existing markets. As of
December 28, 2002, the financial results of all joint ventures are consolidated in the Company's results as the Company has the ability to exercise control over these entities. The interests of
the outside joint venture partners in these


joint ventures have been recorded as minority interests totaling $18,567 and $12,988 at December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively.

As
of December 28, 2002, the Company did not have any unconsolidated joint ventures. The condensed income statement information for the year ended December 28, 2002
includes nine months of Charles River Mexico activity due to the consolidation of this majority-owned subsidiary as of September 30, 2002. The condensed income statement information for the
year ended December 30, 2000 includes two months of Charles River Japan operations as the Company began consolidating the results of Charles River Japan as of February 28, 2000.

Summarized
financial statement information for the unconsolidated joint ventures is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Condensed Combined Statements of Income

Net sales

$

3,291

$

7,697

$

13,541

Operating income



2,922

Net income


1,005

2,132

December 29,


Condensed Combined Balance Sheets

Current assets

$

2,100

Non-current assets

3,309

$

5,409

Current liabilities

$


Non-current liabilities


Shareholders' equity

4,931

$

5,409

13. Commitments and Contingencies

Insurance

The Company maintains insurance for workers' compensation, auto liability, employee medical and general liability. The per claim loss limits are $250, with annual
aggregate loss limits of $6,629. Related accruals were $5,439 and $3,668 on December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome
of such proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.


On
April 27, 2001, the Company's French subsidiaries obtained a favorable legal judgment in a contract dispute, with a damages award of approximately $3,500. The Company has
received the full payment for the damage award under the legal judgment. The Company received $2,240 during fiscal year 2001 and the remaining $1,260 during the second quarter of 2002. As the
defendant has appealed the decision, the proceeds are included as deferred income in the consolidated balance sheet.

14. Related Party Transactions

On October 11, 1999, the Company loaned to certain officers $920 to purchase stock of the Company through CRL Acquisition LLC. These loans were full
recourse with interest rates of 5.05% per annum. The underlying stock was pledged as collateral for the loans. The balance of these loans as of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001
was $0 and $341, respectively, and is classified as a reduction of shareholders' equity.

As
more fully described in Note 4, Ajinomoto is a minority shareholder in Charles River Japan. Charles River Japan conducts certain business transactions with Ajinomoto, including
the purchase of information technology systems and services, engineering services, product delivery services and the reimbursement of employee compensation. Charles River Japan incurred expenses
related to these services of $6,631, $5,459 and $5,575 during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. As of December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, Charles River Japan had amounts due to
Ajinomoto totaling $1,381 and $2,032, respectively. In addition, Charles River Japan sold products totaling $890, $876 and $883 during 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. As of December 28, 2002
and December 29, 2001, Charles River Japan had amounts due from Ajinomoto totaling $481 and $338, respectively.

15. Business Segment and Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," the Company discloses financial and descriptive
information about its reportable operating segments. Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker in
deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company operates in two operating segments, research models and biomedical products and services.

Research
models are principally comprised of virally defined, purpose-bred rats and mice used in drug and medical device testing typically required by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies. Biomedical products and services include discovery services, development services,

in vitro

technology services and vaccine support services. Discovery services assist customers to accelerate their drug discovery and development process by managing their transgenic and knockout research
model colonies, in either our facilities or theirs, and providing laboratory and research services to support those models. Development services are FDA compliant services that aid customers in drug
safety assessment, biotech safety testing and medical device testing.

In vitro

technology services are comprised of non-animal, or

in vitro

, products and
services for testing the safety of drugs and devices. Vaccine support products are principally pathogen-free
fertilized chicken eggs, a critical ingredient for poultry vaccine and some human vaccine production.


The
following table presents sales and other financial information by business segment for 2002, 2001 and 2000. Net sales represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in
either provision of research models or biomedical products and services. Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangibles and other long-lived
assets.




Research Models

Net sales

$

223,766

$

197,494

$

177,950

Gross margin

98,877

80,060

70,641

Operating income

70,917

50,878

40,862

Total assets

393,523

335,580

316,700

Depreciation and amortization

9,398

9,978

9,840

Capital expenditures

14,409

10,419

7,502

Biomedical Products and Services

Net sales

$

330,863

$

268,136

$

128,635

Gross margin

110,106

87,191

49,290

Operating income

65,898

46,643

26,308

Total assets

307,821

235,782

96,845

Depreciation and amortization

14,588

17,197

6,926

Capital expenditures

23,134

25,987

8,063

In
the first quarter of 2001, management revised how it classifies certain European services within the existing business segments, which resulted in a reclassification of $9,693 of net
sales from research models to biomedical products and services for the year ended December 30, 2000. Furthermore, these reclassifications resulted in operating income of $2,205 shifting from
research models to biomedical products and services for the year ended December 30, 2000.

A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Total segment operating income

$

136,815

$

97,521

$

67,170

Unallocated corporate overhead

(14,549

)

(7,238

)

(2,109

)

Consolidated operating income

$

122,266

$

90,283

$

65,061


A
summary of unallocated corporate overhead consists of the following:

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Restricted stock compensation expense

$

1,002

$


$

—

Pension expense (income)

1,677

(1,510

)

(3,865

)

Other general unallocated corporate expenses

11,870

8,696

5,974

$

14,549

$

7,238

$

2,109

Other
general unallocated corporate expenses consist of various costs including those associated with senior executive salaries and departments such as corporate accounting, legal and
investor relations.

A
summary of identifiable long-lived assets of each business segment at year end is as follows:

December 28,


December 29,


Research models

$

124,720

$

116,434

Biomedical products and services

217,648

156,993

$

342,368

$

273,427

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by geographic regions for 2002, 2001 and 2000. Included in the other non-U.S. category below are the
Company's operations located in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Spain and Sweden. Sales to unaffiliated
customers represent net sales originating in entities physically located in the identified geographic area. Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and
intangibles, and other long-lived assets.

U.S.

France

Japan

Other Non

U.S.

Consolidated


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

402,424

$

34,769

$

48,089

$

69,347

$

554,629

Long-lived assets

242,397

12,162

37,806

50,003

342,368


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

338,648

$

31,427

$

44,751

$

50,804

$

465,630

Long-lived assets

211,340

10,589

35,029

16,469

273,427


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

192,919

$

28,474

$

36,624

$

48,568

$

306,585

Long-lived assets

118,271

10,618

39,720

17,235

185,844


16. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization:

December 28, 2002

December 29, 2001

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Goodwill

$

108,998

$

(12,466

)

$

60,866

$

(8,779

)

Other intangible assets not subject to amortization:

Research models

$

3,438

$

—

$

3,438

$

—

Other intangible assets subject to amortization:

Assembled workforce

—

—

20,925

(3,542

)

Customer relationships

25,786

(2,792

)

11,491

(1,724

)

Customer contracts

3,555

(2,060

)

3,455

(1,111

)

Trademarks and trade names

3,211

(601

)

3,000

(253

)

Standard operating procedures

1,384

(372

)

1,208

(156

)

Other identifiable intangible assets

5,309

(2,654

)

3,237

(1,681

)

Total other intangible assets

$

42,683

$

(8,479

)

$

46,754

$

(8,467

)

Total goodwill and other intangible assets

$

151,681

$

(20,945

)

$

107,620

$

(17,246

)

The
changes in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill from December 29, 2001 to December 28, 2002 are as follows:

Research Models

Biomedical Products and Services

Total

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

8,101

$

(558

)

$

24,166

$

(2,932

)

$

32,267

$

(3,490

)

Adjustments to goodwill:

Amortization

—

(550

)

—

(4,713

)

—

(5,263

)

Acquisitions

—

—

28,582

—

28,582

—

Foreign currency translation

—

—


(26

)


(26

)

Balance at December 29, 2001

8,101

(1,108

)

52,765

(7,671

)

60,866

(8,779

)

Adjustments to goodwill:

Assembled workforce reclassification

—

—

20,925

(3,542

)

20,925

(3,542

)

Acquisitions

—

—

25,291

—

25,291

—

Consolidation of equity investment transfer

—

—


—


—

Foreign currency translation

—

—

1,335

(145

)

1,335

(145

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

8,101

$

(1,108

)

$

100,897

$

(11,358

)

$

108,998

$

(12,466

)


Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows:


$

4,864


4,849


4,369


3,815


3,532

The
following selected consolidated results are presented as if Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142 had been
adopted at the beginning of fiscal year 2000 and accordingly, amortization for goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets has been eliminated.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 28,


December 29,


December 30,


Reported income before extraordinary item

$

68,363

$

40,650

$

17,877

Amortization of goodwill, net of tax

—

3,835

1,731

Income before extraordinary item, as adjusted

68,363

44,485

19,608

Extraordinary item, net of tax

(18,231

)

(5,243

)

(29,101

)

Net income (loss), as adjusted

$

50,132

$

39,242

$

(9,493

)

Reported basic earning per share before extraordinary item

$

1.53

$

0.99

$

0.64

Basic earnings per share on amortization of goodwill, net of tax

—

0.09

0.06

Basic earnings per share before extraordinary item, as

adjusted

1.53

1.08

0.70

Basic loss per share on extraordinary item, net of tax

(0.41

)

(0.13

)

(1.04

)

Basic earnings (loss) per share after extraordinary item, as adjusted

$

1.12

$

0.95

$

(0.34

)

Reported diluted earnings per share before extraordinary item

$

1.42

$

0.92

$

0.56

Diluted earnings per share on amortization of goodwill, net of tax

—

0.09

0.05

Diluted earnings per share before extraordinary item, as adjusted

1.42

1.01

0.61

Diluted loss per share on extraordinary item, net of tax

(0.36

)

(0.12

)

(0.91

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share after extraordinary item, as adjusted

$

1.06

$

0.89

$

(0.30

)

17. Subsequent Events

Effective January 2, 2003, the Company acquired an additional 19% of the equity (404,321 common shares) of Charles River Japan from Ajinomoto
Company, Inc., the minority interest partner, which has increased the Company's ownership to 85% of outstanding shares. The purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or $10,841,
which was paid in cash. The Company is in the process of estimating the fair value of the incremental net assets acquired.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(dollars in thousands)

Income Tax Valuation Allowance

Balance at December 25, 1999

$

7,137

Provisions

3,007

Releases

(5,620

)

Balance at December 30, 2000

4,524

Provisions

—

Releases

—

Balance at December 29, 2001

4,524

Provisions

—

Releases

(473

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

4,051

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Balance at December 25, 1999

$


Provisions


Recoveries/Write-offs

(156

)

Balance at December 30, 2000

1,036

Provisions

1,550

Recoveries/Write-offs

(467

)

Balance at December 29, 2001

2,119

Provisions

(25

)

Recoveries/Write-offs

(554

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

1,540


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Year ended December 28, 2002

Net sales

$

133,820

$

136,501

$

141,364

$

142,944

Gross profit

49,959

52,400

53,475

53,149

Income before extraordinary item

14,530

17,420

18,908

17,505

Extraordinary item

(16,762

)

(1,092

)

(377

)

—

Net income (loss)

(2,232

)

16,328

18,531

17,505

Earnings per common share before extraordinary item

Basic

$

0.33

$

0.39

$

0.42

$

0.39

Diluted

$

0.31

$

0.36

$

0.39

$

0.36

Earnings (loss) per common share after extraordinary item

Basic

$

(0.05

)

$

0.37

$

0.41

$

0.39

Diluted

$

(0.03

)

$

0.34

$

0.38

$

0.36

Year ended December 29, 2001

Net sales

$

99,031

$

116,820

$

123,685

$

126,094

Gross profit

36,662

43,770

43,211

43,608

Income before extraordinary item

7,188

10,601

11,805

11,056

Extraordinary item

(237

)

(1,583

)

(1,284

)

(2,139

)

Net income

6,951

9,018

10,521

8,917

Earnings per common share before extraordinary item

Basic

$

0.20

$

0.26

$

0.27

$

0.25

Diluted

$

0.18

$

0.24

$

0.26

$

0.24

Earnings per common share after extraordinary item

Basic

$

0.19

$

0.22

$

0.24

$

0.20

Diluted

$

0.17

$

0.21

$

0.23

$

0.19

Year ended December 30, 2000

Net sales

$

72,504

$

77,430

$

75,593

$

81,058

Gross profit

27,910

31,577

29,906

30,538

Income before extraordinary item


7,974

4,839

4,428

Extraordinary item

—

—

(29,101

)

—

Net income (loss)


7,974

(24,262

)

4,428

Earnings per common share before extraordinary item

Basic

$

0.03

$

0.40

$

0.14

$

0.12

Diluted

$

0.03

$

0.34

$

0.12

$

0.11

Earnings (loss) per common share after extraordinary item

Basic

$

0.03

$

0.40

$

(0.69

)

$

0.12

Diluted

$

0.03

$

0.34

$

(0.61

)

$

0.11

The
net sales amounts shown above for the first, second and third quarters for the year ended December 30, 2000 differ from the net sales amounts reported in the condensed
consolidated financial statements included in the Form 10-Qs for each of these quarters by $3,202, $3,333, and $3,220, respectively. These amounts have been reclassified from cost
of sales to net sales in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-10, "Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs." Shipping and handling costs are recorded
as cost of sales in the statement of income.


Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

A.

Directors
and Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The
information required by this Item regarding the directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the Company's officers and directors will be
included in the 2003 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Management" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

B.

Executive
Officers of the Company

The
information required by this Item regarding the executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I of this Form 10-K under the heading "Supplementary
Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K."

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2003 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Compensation of Directors," "Executive
Compensation" and "Report of Compensation Committee" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2003 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2003 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14. Controls and Procedures

(a)  Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Based on their evaluation as of a date within 90 days of the filing date of this Form 10-K,
the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-14(c) and
15d-14(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms.

(b)  Changes
in Internal Controls. There were no significant changes in the Company's internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls
subsequent to the date of their evaluation. There were no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and therefore there were no corrective actions taken.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Report on Form 8-K

Item 15(a).

The following documents are filed as part of this Form 10-K. Item 15(a)(1) and (2). See "Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
Financial Statements Schedules" at Item 8 to this Form 10-K. Other financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not applicable or the information is
included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and Item 15(c). Exhibits.

The following is a list of exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on form 10-K:

Exhibit

Number

Description

2.1

Recapitalization Agreement, dated as of July 25, 1999, among Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (formerly known as Endosafe, Inc.), Bausch & Lomb
Incorporated, and other parties listed therein (Filed as Exhibit 2.1). (3)

2.2

Amendment No. 1 to Recapitalization Agreement, dated as of September 29, 1999, by Bausch & Lomb Incorporated and CRL Acquisition LLC (Filed as Exhibit 2.2). (3)

2.3

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of June 6, 2000, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., CRL Acquisition LLC and B&L CRL, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 2.3). (2)

2.4

Stock Purchase Agreement among Pathology Associates International Corporation, Science Applications International Corp., and Charles River Laboratories, Inc., dated December 21, 2000 (filed as
Exhibit 2.4). (1)

2.5

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2001, among Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Primedica Corporation, TSI Corporation and Genzyme Transgenics Corporation (Filed as Exhibit 2.5). (1)

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1). (2)

3.2

By-laws of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2). (2)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock, $0.01 per value per share (Filed as Exhibit 4.1). (2)

4.2

Indenture, dated as of January 24, 2002, between Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee (Filed as Exhibit 4.8). (9)

4.3

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 17, 2002, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Lehman Brothers Inc., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., SG Cowen Securities Corporation, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., Thomas Weisel Partners LLC, Investec PMG Capital Corp. and Jefferies & Company, Inc. (Files as Exhibit 4.9). (9)

10.1

Joint Venture Agreement between Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Charles River Breeding Laboratories, Inc., dated June 24, 1981, and ancillary agreements, amendments and addenda (Filed as Exhibit 10.6). (4)

10.2

Supply Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Charles River Laboratories, Inc., dated September 30, 1994 (Filed as Exhibit 10.7). (3)

10.3

Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement among Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and SBI Holdings, Inc. and its stockholders, dated September 4, 1999 (Filed as Exhibit 10.8). (3)


10.4

Ground Lease between HIC Associates (Lessor) and Charles River Laboratories, Inc. (Lessee) dated June 5, 1992; Real Estate Lease between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. (Landlord) and Charles River
Partners L.P. (Tenant) dated December 22, 1993; and Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Charles River Partners, L.P. (Assignor) and Wilmington Partners L.P. (Assignees) dated December 22, 1993 (Filed as
Exhibit 10.9). (3)

10.5

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement among Charles River BRF, Inc., Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Bioculture Mauritius Ltd. and Marry Ann and Owen Griffiths, dated December 23, 1997 (Filed
as Exhibit 10.10). (3)

10.6

Supply Agreement between Sierra Biomedical, Inc. and Scientific Resources International, Ltd., dated March 18, 1997 (Filed as Exhibit 10.11). (3)

10.7

Severance Agreement between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and Real H. Renaud, dated January 20, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10.10). (2)+

10.8

1999 Charles River Laboratories Officer Separation Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.11). (2)+

10.9

Form of Agreement and Release among Bausch & Lomb, Incorporated, Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and the named executive officers, dated as of July 25, 1999 (Filed as Exhibit 10.12). (2)
+

10.10

1999 Management Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.1). (5)+

10.11

2000 Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.14). (2)+

10.12

Amendment No. 1 to the 2000 Incentive Plan of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., dated May 8, 2001 (Filed as Exhibit 99.1). (7)

10.13

2000 Directors Stock Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.15). (2)+

10.14

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. 2000 Incentive Plan Inland Revenue Approved Rules for UK Employees (Filed as Exhibit 99.1). (8)

10.15

Form of Indemnification Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.16). (2)+

21.1*

Subsidiaries of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.

23.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

(1)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-55670), as
amended, filed February 15, 2001.

(2)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-35524), as amended, filed June 23, 2000.

(3)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor in interest to the Company,
on Form S-1 (File No. 333-92383), as amended, filed December 8, 1999.

(4)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor in interest to the Company,
on Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524) filed April 25, 2000.

(5)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor
in interest to the Company, filed May 9, 2000.

(6)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 10, 2001.

(7)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 15, 2001.

(8)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2001.


(9)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 27, 2001.

(10)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2002.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

*

Filed
herewith.

Where
a document is incorporated by reference from a previous filing, the Exhibit number of the document in that previous filing is indicated in parentheses after the description
of such document.

Item 15(b). Reports on Form 8-K.

The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K on November 27, 2002 pursuant to Item 9 (Regulation FD Disclosure).


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 20, 2003

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
below and on the dates indicated.

Signatures

Title

Date

By:

/s/

JAMES C. FOSTER

James C. Foster

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

ROBERT CAWTHORN

Robert Cawthorn

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

STEPHEN D. CHUBB

Stephen D. Chubb

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

GEORGE M. MILNE

George M. Milne

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

SAMUEL O. THIER

Samuel O. Thier

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

WILLIAM H. WALTRIP

William H. Waltrip

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

DOUGLAS E. ROGERS

Douglas E. Rogers

Director

March 20, 2003

By:

/s/

GEORGE E. MASSARO

George E. Massaro

Director

March 20, 2003


CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO

SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

AND RULE 13A-14 OF THE EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I, James C. Foster, Chief Executive Officer of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (the Company) certify that:

1.

I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;

2.

Based
on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; and

3.

Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report.

4.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a.

designed
such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation
Date"); and

c.

presented
in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.

all
significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
data and have identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal controls; and

6.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Dated: March 17, 2003

/s/

JAMES C. FOSTER

James C. Foster

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.


CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO

SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

AND RULE 13A-14 OF THE EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

I, Thomas F. Ackerman, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (the Company) certify that:

1.

I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of the Company;

2.

Based
on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report; and

3.

Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report.

4.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a.

designed
such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b.

evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the "Evaluation
Date"); and

c.

presented
in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.

all
significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
data and have identified for the registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b.

any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal controls; and

6.

The
registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Dated: March 17, 2003

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.


QuickLinks

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


PART I

Item 1. Business

Item 2. Properties

Sites—Owned

Sites—Leased

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Report of Independent Accountants

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (dollars in thousands, except per share amount)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Item 14. Controls and Procedures

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Report on Form 8-K

SIGNATURES

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 AND RULE 13A-14 OF THE EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 AND RULE 13A-14 OF THE EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934