10-K


a06-2532_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Commission File No. 333-92383

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

(Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code):

(978) 658-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock,
  $0.01 par value

New York Stock
  Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference
in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a
non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated Filer

x

Accelerated
Filer

o

Non-accelerated
Filer

o

Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

On June 25, 2005, the
aggregate market value of the Registrant’s voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $3,410,397,382.

As of
March 1, 2006, there were outstanding 71,991,729 shares of the Registrant’s
common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE

Portions
of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 9, 2006,  which will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 31, 2005,
are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
With the exception of the portions of the 2006 Proxy Statement expressly
incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference, such
document shall not be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.

CHARLES
RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the
future results of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. that are
based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the
industries in which Charles River operates and the beliefs and assumptions of
our management. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “target,” “goal,” “project,”
“intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “likely,” “may,” “designed,”
“would,” “future,” “can,” “could” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to
historical matters are intended to identify such forward-looking
statements. These statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of
Charles River and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions
that are difficult to predict. You should not rely on forward-looking
statements because they are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties
and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may
differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or in the case of
statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated
by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences
include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K
under the section entitled “Risks Related to Our Business and Industry.” Except
to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no
obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements
for any reason.

Corporate History

Charles River has been operating since 1947 and since
then we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we
completed the initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “CRL “and is included in the Standard & Poor’s MidCap
400 Index. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters
mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887, and the
telephone number at that location is (978) 658-6000. Our Internet
site is

www.criver.com

. Material contained on
our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.
Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K
to “Charles River,” “we,” “us” or “our” refer to Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This Form 10-K,
as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
are available free of charge through the investor relations section of our
Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material
with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file
with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an Internet site (

http://www.sec.gov

)
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that
advance the drug discovery and development process. We provide the animal
research models required in research and development for new drugs, devices and
therapies and have been in this business for more than 58 years. For over
a decade, we have built upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine
and science (research model technologies)


to develop a diverse and
growing portfolio of products and services. Our wide array of tools and
services enables our customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance
their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. Our
customer base includes major pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device
companies, as well as many government agencies, leading hospitals and academic
institutions throughout the world. We currently operate over 100 facilities in
21 countries worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our global
infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many
of the challenges of early-stage life sciences research, a large and
growing market. In 2005, our net sales were $1.12 billion and our
operating income was $181.0 million.

In October 2004, we acquired Inveresk Research
Group, Inc. Prior to the acquisition, Inveresk was a publicly traded
company and a leading provider of drug development services to companies in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Through its preclinical and
clinical business segments, it offered a broad range of drug development
services, including preclinical safety and pharmacology evaluation services,
laboratory sciences services and clinical development services. Much of our
activities in 2005 has focused upon the integration of Inveresk, which has
included unifying our products and services under the “Charles River” brand
name and

the harmonizing
of best practices derived from the combination of the two companies.

The acquisition has
broadened our portfolio of high-end products and services including general
toxicology, specialty toxicology and clinical services. Overall the addition of
Inveresk has impacted our Company dramatically, as follows:

·

significantly
expanded our overall corporate size;

·

significantly
increased the breadth of the products and services that we offer, including
those that are highly complementary to the services Charles River had
previously offered; and

·

expanded
and strengthened our global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical
research and development products and services, particularly in key markets
such as the United States, Europe and Japan, which better aligns us with our
key pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, who are increasingly seeking to
outsource more of their preclinical and clinical research and development
efforts and are seeking full service, global partners.

As part of the integration
of Inveresk’s business operations, in 2004 we changed our business reporting
segments to better reflect our results of operations and facilitate
understanding of our business, which has evolved since 1999 from a
product-oriented focus to a service-oriented one. We currently have three
reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS), Preclinical Services
(which is a combination of Inveresk’s preclinical business with our legacy
preclinical business), and Clinical Services.

Research Models and Services (RMS)

With over 150 different stocks and strains, we
continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and
sale of research models, principally genetically and virally defined purpose-bred
rats and mice, and have been supplying research models since 1947. We also
provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our customers
in supporting the use of research models in drug development. With 20
facilities on three continents (North America, Europe and Asia (Japan)), we
maintain production centers, including approximately 160 barrier rooms,
strategically located near our customers. In addition, we anticipate expanding
our existing U.S. West Coast capacity with additional construction which
will  partially open in the fourth
quarter of 2006. In 2005, RMS accounted for 44.8% of total net sales  and approximately 35% of our employees,
including more than 160 science professionals with advanced degrees.

Research
Models.

A significant portion of this business
is comprised of the commercial production and sale of animal research models,
principally purpose-bred rats, mice and other rodents for use by


researchers. We provide
our small animal models to numerous customers around the world, including most
pharmaceutical companies, major biotechnology companies, many government
agencies, and leading hospital and academic institutions. Our research models
include genetically defined models and models with compromised immune systems,
which are increasingly in demand as early-stage research tools. The
United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)  and foreign regulatory bodies typically
require the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates and many medical devices
to be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a
result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and
development process.

Our rats, mice and other rodent species have been and
continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world,
largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality in
the breeding process. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled
environments which are designed to ensure that the animals are free of specific
viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research
operations and distort results. With our barrier room production capabilities,
we are able to deliver consistently high quality research models worldwide.

Our small research
models include:

·

outbred
animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

·

inbred
animals, which are genetically identical;

·

hybrid
animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

·

spontaneous
mutant animals, which contain a naturally-occurring genetic mutation
(such as immune deficiency); and

·

other
genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or
more disabled genes and transgenic animals, which contain genetic material
transferred from a different species.

Since 2001, we have been offering new and proprietary,
disease-specific rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such
as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are presently
focusing our disease model program on four areas of research: cardiovascular,
metabolic, renal and oncology, which, in addition to providing overlapping
disease modalities that support multiple uses of certain models, also will
permit us to concentrate on focused sales and marketing efforts.

We believe that over the next several years, many new
research models will be developed and used in biomedical research, such as
transgenic models with modified genetic material, knock-out models with one or
more disabled genes, and transgenic models that incorporate or exclude a
particular gene. These more highly defined and characterized models will allow
researchers to further focus their investigations into disease conditions and
potential new therapies or interventions. We intend to build upon our position
as a leader in this field to expand our presence in this market for higher-value
research models.

In addition to our small research models, we also are
a global leader in providing purpose-bred, high quality, SPF or disease free,
large animal models to the biomedical research community, principally for use
in their drug development and testing studies.

We also provide surgical services to our customers,
utilizing over 50 full-time staff surgical technicians located in the United
States, Europe and, commencing in 2006, Asia. This value-added service offering
enhances the basic research model by allowing for repeated sample collection in
the case of catheterized animals.

RMS also offers a variety of services, described
below, designed to assist our customers in screening drug candidates faster,
including those which are related to genetically defined research models for
in-house research, as well as those services designed to implement efficacy
screening protocols to improve the customer’s drug evaluation process. These
services address the growing need among pharmaceutical and


biotechnology companies to
outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These
services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our
research model business. We currently offer three major categories of research
models services—transgenic services, laboratory services, and preconditioning
and surgical services. We also offer three other categories of products and
services—consulting and staffing services, vaccine support and

in vitro

technology products.

Transgenic
Services.

In
this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining,
improving, breeding and testing research models purchased or created by them
for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a transgenic model
can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first step in the discovery
process. Productive utilization of research models requires significant
additional technical expertise. We provide transgenic breeding expertise, model
characterization (including genotyping and phenotyping) and colony development,
quarantine, embryo cryopreservation, embryo transfer and health and genetic
monitoring. We provide these services to nearly 200 laboratories around the
world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and
universities, and maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally
occurring or experimentally manipulated research models for our customers.

Laboratory
Services.

We
assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the
research models used in their research protocols. We developed this capability
internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic
laboratory needs of our research model business. Depending upon a customer’s
needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative
source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities. We believe that the
continued growth in model development and characterization and utilization of
specific disease models and genetically engineered models will drive our future
growth as the reference laboratory of choice for health and genetic testing of
laboratory animals.

Preconditioning
and Surgical Services.

Augmenting
our traditional model production and transgenic services described above, we
believe there are emerging opportunities to provide customers with
preconditioning services, which centers upon speeding the development process
by preparing study-ready research models possessing necessary characteristics.
Our veterinary medicine expertise makes us well positioned to create and
monitor the research models for such studies, such as those focused upon
obesity or hypertension. Additionally, models of subclinical disease can be
created through surgical approaches, thereby providing a model for study that
otherwise may not be commercially available.

Consulting
and Staffing Services.

Building
upon our core capability as the leading provider of high-quality research
models, we manage animal care operations on behalf of government and academic
organizations, as well as commercial customers. Demand for our services
reflects the growing necessity of these large institutions to outsource
internal functions or activities that are not critical to the core scientific
innovation process or for which they do not maintain the necessary resources
in-house. In addition, we believe that our expertise in animal care and
facility operations enhances the productivity and quality of our customers’
animal care and use programs. This area leads to additional opportunities for
us to provide other products and services to our customers.

Vaccine
Support.

We
are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF,
chickens and fertile chicken eggs. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal
health companies as self-contained “bioreactors” for the manufacture of live
and inactivated viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in
poultry, as well as human vaccine, applications. The production of SPF eggs is
done under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model
production. We have a worldwide presence that includes several SPF egg
production facilities in the United States, as well as facilities in Germany
and Australia, and a joint venture in Mexico. We also operate a specialized
avian laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house testing and
support services to our customers.

In Vitro Technology.

Our

in vitro

business provides non-animal, or

in vitro,

methods for lot release testing
of medical devices and injectable drugs. We are committed to being the leader
in providing our


customers with

in vitro

alternatives as these methods
become scientifically validated and commercially feasible, and toward that goal
we work with and support the European Center for Validation of Alternative
Methods in these efforts. Our

in vitro

technology business produces and distributes endotoxin testing kits, reagents,
software, accessories, instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies for medical devices and other products worldwide.
We are a market leader in endotoxin testing, which is used for quality control
testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the
processes by which they are manufactured. Quality control testing for endotoxin
contamination is an FDA requirement for injectable drugs and medical devices.
Endotoxin testing  uses a processed
extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate
(LAL). The LAL test is the first and only major FDA-validated

in vitro

alternative to an animal model
test for endotoxin detection in pharmaceutical and medical device
manufacturing. The process of extracting blood is generally not harmful to the
crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean environment. Our
Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe

®

-PTS)
is a portable endotoxin testing platform which allows endotoxin testing in the
field, affording researchers accurate and timely results. We are currently
pursuing FDA approval of our PTS system. We are also investigating expanding
the use of the PTS system for endotoxin testing into other markets such as
nuclear pharmacies, cell transplant, dentists/doctors offices, dialysis
clinics, testing for sterile water and even environmental testing, as well as
other ways to invest in the PTS platform, such as through additional biological
assays.

Preclinical Services

Our customers are principally engaged in the discovery
and development of new drugs, devices and therapies.  Discovery represents the earliest stages of
research in the life sciences, directed to the identification, screening and
selection of a lead compound for future drug development. Discovery activities typically
last anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and
development timelines. Development activities, which follow, are directed at
demonstrating the safety, tolerability and clinical efficacy of the selected
drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a
drug candidate is tested

in vitro

(typically on a cellular or subcellular level in a test tube or multi-well
petri plate) and

in vivo

(in
research models) to support planned or on-going human trials. The development
services portion of our preclinical business segment enables our customers to
outsource their critical regulatory-required toxicology and drug disposition
activities to us. The demand for these services is driven by preclinical
development programs for the smaller biotechnology companies, which
traditionally have been outsourced, and key safety studies by the larger
multi-national pharmaceutical companies. Because of the necessary investments
in personnel, facilities and other capital resources required in order to
efficiently partake in these activities, we believe that participants in these
industries will prefer to focus on their core competencies of innovation, early
drug discovery, and in the case of the larger pharmaceutical companies,
targeted sales and marketing, and thus we believe the demand for our
preclinical service offerings will continue to increase.

We are one of the two largest providers of preclinical
services worldwide and are considered by many of our clients as market leaders
in the conduct and reporting of general and specialty toxicology studies,
especially those dealing with innovative therapies and biologicals. We
currently provide preclinical services at 12 facilities in the United States,
Canada and Europe. With Inveresk, we acquired high-quality, full research
capability laboratories in Montreal, Canada and Edinburgh, Scotland, and, by
the end of 2006 we expect to have initial occupancy of a new facility in
Massachusetts, followed in 2007 by a fourth full-capability research facility
in Nevada.  Our Preclinical Services
segment represented 43.5% of our total net sales in 2005 and employs over
4,000, or almost half, of our employees.

We currently offer preclinical services, in which we
include both

in vivo

and

in vitro

studies,
supportive laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and
program management to support product development from inception to market
registration.


Toxicology.

Once a lead molecule is selected, the stage of
preclinical development begins where appropriate toxicology studies are
conducted to support initial clinical trials. We offer all the standard models
for general toxicity testing in the species typically required for regulatory
submissions, but we also have particular expertise in specialty routes of
administration, modes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal
administration, and inhalation). This is important not only for
pharmaceuticals, but also for safety testing of medical devices, industrial
chemicals, food additives, agrochemicals, nutraceuticals and other materials.
Toxicology is clearly one of our core competencies and strengths. We offer
services to fully evaluate the genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute,
subacute, chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity potential to support “first in
man” to “first on the market” strategies. In support of larger scale, human
clinical trials, we believe that we are a world leader in the conduct and
assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies. We also offer
services in important specialty areas like immunotoxicology, photobiology,
ocular, and dermal testing. We have worked with all major therapeutic areas,
and provide study design and strategic advice to our clients based on our
wealth of experience in drug development. We have a strong history of aiding
our sponsors in reaching their regulatory or internal milestones for safety
testing, including studies addressing stem cell therapies, DNA vaccines,
recombinant proteins, standard small molecules and medical devices. Within the
requirements for preclinical safety testing are compliance with Good Laboratory
Practices (GLPs) as outlined by the FDA as well as other international
regulatory bodies. Our toxicology facilities operate in compliance with GLP
requirements and are regularly inspected by U.S. and other GLP compliance
monitoring authorities, as well as, our own and our customers’ Quality
Assurance departments.

Pathology
Services.

In
the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize clinical
and anatomic pathologic changes (within tissues and cells) is critical in
determining the safety of a new compound. We employ highly trained pathologists
who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential compound-related
changes within tissues and cells, as well as, at the molecular level. Pathology
support is critical for regulatory-driven safety studies, but also for
specialized investigative studies, discovery support, and stand-alone
immunohistochemistry evaluations for monoclonal antibodies. Key go/no-go
decisions regarding continued product development are typically dependent on
the characterization and evaluation of gross and microscopic pathology findings
we perform for our clients.

Bioanalysis,
Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.

In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our
customers are required to demonstrate ample drug exposure, stability in the
collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the
presence of metabolites, and with recombinant proteins and peptides, the
presence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated
analytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of
drug classes (including oligonucleotide and inhibitory RNAs). In the event that
the sample analysis for preclinical study support translates to opportunities
to analyze clinical samples for the same drug once  human testing begins, we have opportunities
to capture the benefits of bridging preclinical bioanalysis with later clinical
development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the data to
provide information on the kinetics (pharmaco-/toxico-) of the exposure to the
drug, as well as complete evaluation of the distribution of the drug or
metabolites by radio-labeled techniques. These studies are needed for the full
preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug and are used in the final
preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.


Discovery
Support.

At the
earliest stages of lead compound identification, our scientists are engaged in
evaluating the activity of drug candidates in several important therapeutic and
support areas, including: oncology (through our tumor xenograft models); asthma
(through our specialized animal disease models); bone disease (using our state
of the art imaging and pathology capabilities); ophthalmology (using our models
of neovascularization); general cardiovascular and device testing (using our
surgical models); and early drug formulation and bioanalysis support and method
development. We offer lead optimization strategies including early
pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early
integrative drug selection criteria.

Biopharmaceutical Services.

We provide specialized,
non-clinical quality control testing that is frequently outsourced by both
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These services allow our customers
to determine if their human protein drug candidates, or the processes for
manufacturing those products, are essentially free of residual biological
materials. The bulk of this testing work is required by the FDA in order to
obtain new drug approval, to maintain an FDA-licensed manufacturing facility or
to release approved products for use in patients. Our scientific staff consults
with customers in the areas of process development, validation, manufacturing
scale-up and biological testing.

Clinical Services

The clinical services
business represents a relatively new market and growth opportunity for us that
originated through our acquisition of the Phase I-IV business of Inveresk.  Our capabilities includes a premier Phase I
clinic in Europe and an established international capability to manage Phase
II-IV studies. Our clinical development business presently employs
approximately 940 people and operates in 24 countries (from 17 facilities)
located across North America, Europe, South America, Asia and Australia. In
2005, the Clinical Services segment accounted for approximately 11.6% of our
total net sales. We are focused upon maintaining healthy profit margins in this
segment through careful positioning of our clinical services including our core
therapeutic areas of: cardiovascular, oncology, ophthalmology, respiratory and
infectious diseases. From a strategic perspective we believe that our clinical
services business is positioned to benefit from pull-through from our
preclinical and laboratory services, particularly with our biotechnology
customers.

Phase I Trials in
Patients and Special Populations

We operate a  62-bed clinic in Edinburgh, Scotland,
at which we conduct a wide range of Phase I clinical trials designed to move
lead pharmaceutical candidates rapidly from preclinical development through
Phase I tolerability assessment to explore human pharmacology. This facility is
in close proximity to one of our laboratory sciences facilities, which is
responsible for performing the analysis of biological samples generated by our
Phase I clinic, facilitating fast response times. Our Phase I clinic, which
focuses on “first-in-man” studies, is capable of conducting all types of
studies and has experience across a wide range of therapeutic areas, including
complex dose tolerance, radio-labeled, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and
bioavailability studies. All of the clinic’s volunteers are evaluated through
an intensive screening process to ensure study suitability. The facility has an
established quality assurance unit that monitors the conduct and reporting of
Phase I trials to assure management that these trials are conducted in
compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Phase II-IV
Clinical Development and Regulatory Support

From
our 14 offices worldwide and business operations in more than 20 countries, we
manage every aspect of clinical trials from clinical development plans and
protocol design to New Drug Applications (NDAs) and post-marketing
surveillance. We provide a comprehensive range of services as either a
full-service package or as individual stand-alone services. In addition
to conducting single site studies in many parts of the world, we have a proven
track record of managing large international multi-center trials


culminating in regulatory filings. We have supported
studies in over 34 countries. Our clinical trials management services include:

We also have significant
expertise in conducting patient and other outcomes registries, such as pregnancy
registries, on behalf of the pharmaceutical industry, as well as regulatory
support. Before a product may be launched in any country, it must be approved
by the regulatory agency in that particular country. We offer comprehensive
global regulatory product registration services at all stages of development
for pharmaceutical and biotechnology products and have particular expertise
with the regulations in Europe and North America. Through this service, we
assist our clients in determining the feasibility of developing a particular
product or product line.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the premier global company for
advancing the search for drugs, devices and therapies from discovery through
market approval. The products and services which we provide our customers are
essential  to the drug discovery and
development process, and are almost universally mandated by law. Our business
is primarily driven by the continued growth of research and development
spending by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, the
federal government and academic institutions and of outsourced services.
According to a recent report by the Biomedical Industry Advisory Group, it
takes 11 to 16 years and costs in the range of $180 million to
$1.65 billion to bring a new drug to market. As the pressure to develop
new drugs increases for these industries, so does the pressure to contain
costs, implement research in multiple countries simultaneously and identify,
hire and retain a breadth of experienced experts. In order to facilitate and
speed their research, our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers have
increasingly strategically outsourced services which can be provided by
high-quality service providers like Charles River. Outsourcing allows our
customers to concentrate their resources on the basic drug discovery which only
they can do, while continuing to advance their most promising products through
the development pipeline. This creates opportunities for companies such as ours
that can help speed the drug discovery and development process. Our strategy is
to capitalize on these opportunities by continuing to build our portfolio of
high end, value-added products and services through internal development,
augmented by strategic “bolt-on” transactions.

In today’s business environment, we particularly
believe there is an advantage in being a large, global, high-quality provider
of services throughout the drug discovery and development process. Many of our
customers, especially large pharmaceutical companies, are attracted to Tier 1
contract research organizations with a full breadth of capabilities, and
establish preferred provider agreements with only a small handful. We are
focused on being recognized as a premier preferred provider and maintaining
long-term relationships and strategic partnerships with our customers. Accordingly,
with many of our largest customers, we have entered into global provider
agreements that span two or three segments of our business.

We intend to continue to broaden the scope of our products
and services primarily through organic growth, which will be augmented, as
needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. We believe our approach to
acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to target businesses that are a
sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing stockholder value.
This strategy may include geographic


expansion of existing core
services, strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new
product or service.

We believe that we are
well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. We
intend to focus our marketing efforts on stimulating demand for further
outsourcing to gain additional market share.  To take advantage of  promising opportunities which are available
to us as a result of continued growth of outsourced services, in 2006 we
anticipate investing  heavily in
expanding our facilities capacity.

Customers

Our customers continue to consist primarily of all of
the major pharmaceutical companies, as well as many biotechnology companies,
animal health, medical device and diagnostic companies, leading hospitals,
academic institutions, government agencies and other life sciences companies. Recently,
as a result of the Inveresk merger and outsourcing trends, our commercial
customer base (mainly pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies) has grown at
a higher rate than our non-commercial customer rate. We have many long-term,
stable relationships with our customers. During 2005, no single commercial
customer accounted for more than 5% of our total net sales.

For information regarding
net sales and long-lived assets attributable to each of our business segments
for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 15 included in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to
operations in the United States, Europe, Asia and other countries for each of
the last three fiscal years, please review Note 15 included in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales,
Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through
our direct sales force, the majority of whom work in the United States, with
the balance working in Europe and Japan. Our primary promotional activities
include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers, making
presentations and participating at scientific conferences and trade shows in
North America, Europe and Japan. We supplement these scientifically based
marketing activities with trade advertising, direct mail, newsletters and our
web site. The direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors
for our products.

Our internal
marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff while
developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with
customers in the biomedical research industry. We maintain customer service,
technical assistance and consulting service departments, which address both our
customers’ routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist our
customers in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics,
biosecurity, preclinical and clinical study design, regulatory consulting,
protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is recognized as a
valuable customer resource.

Research and Development

While there is some
research and development activity involved in our  in vitro technologies business, we do not
maintain a fully dedicated research and development staff and therefore have
not had any significant research and development costs in any of the past three
fiscal years. Our approach to developing new products or services is to extend
our base technologies into new applications and fields, and in some instances
to license or acquire technologies to serve as platforms for the development of
new businesses that service our existing customer base. Our research and
development focus is principally on developing projects that improve our
productivity or processes.


Industry Support and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for and commitment
to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements
in our industry, and continue to demonstrate our commitment with special
recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment
in this critical area of our business. We created our own Humane Care
Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal
of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the
humane care of laboratory animals. Laboratory animals are an important resource
that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of
life-saving drugs and procedures. We work hand-in-hand with the scientific
community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress
play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research. As animal
caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public
for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We support a wide variety
of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as
the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to
laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit
institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and
provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal
medicine field.

Employees

As of December 31,
2005, we had approximately 8,400 employees, including  approximately 450 science professionals with
advanced degrees including D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s and M.D.s. Our employees are not
unionized in the United States, although employees are unionized at some of our
European facilities, consistent with local customs for our industry. Our annual
satisfaction surveys indicate that we have an excellent relationship with our
employees.

Backlog

Our backlog for Preclinical Services and Clinical
Services was approximately $448.2 million at December 31, 2005. We do
not report backlog for the RMS segment because turnaround time from order
placement to fulfillment, both for products and services, is rapid. Our
preclinical and clinical services are performed over varying times, from a
short period of time to extended periods of time, which may be as long as
several years. We maintain an order backlog for these segments to track
anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but
are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not
been completed. We only recognize a study or project in backlog after we have
received written evidence of a customer’s intention to proceed. We do not
recognize verbal orders. Cancelled studies or projects are removed from
backlog.

We believe our aggregate
backlog as of any date is not necessarily an indicator of our future results
for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration (i.e., some studies
that are included in 2005 backlog may be completed in 2006, while others may be
completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may change, which may
either increase or decrease their value. Third, studies included in backlog may
be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies may be terminated or
delayed at any time by the client or regulatory authorities. Terminations or
delays can result from a number of reasons. Delayed contracts remain in our
backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the
study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to
realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the
portion to be filled in the current year.


Competition

Our strategy is to be a leader in each of the markets
in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality,
reputation, responsiveness, timeliness and availability, supported by our
international presence with strategically located facilities.

The competitive landscape for our three business
segments varies. For RMS, our main competitors include three smaller
competitors in North America, several smaller competitors in Europe, and two
smaller competitors in Japan. Of our main U.S. competitors, two are privately held
businesses and the third is a government funded, not-for-profit institution. We
believe that none of our competitors in RMS has our comparable global reach,
financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings and
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

We believe we are one of
the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net
service revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical services are both
publicly-held and privately-owned companies. The clinical development
services market is highly fragmented, with participants ranging from hundreds
of small, limited-service providers to a few full service drug
development services organizations with global operations. Our clinical
services business competitors include a number of publicly traded and privately
owned companies. In addition, both our preclinical and clinical businesses
compete with in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies and universities
and teaching hospitals.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct
operating segments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to
numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments, as described
below.

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use
of certain species of animals used for research. The United States
Congress has passed legislation which permanently excludes rats, mice and
chickens used for research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of
our United States small animal research model activities and our vaccine
support services operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. For
regulated species, the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require
producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to
utilize specific husbandry practices such as, cage size, shipping conditions,
sanitation and environmental enrichment methods to assure the welfare of these
animals. We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set by
the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of
regulated species. Our animal production facilities in the U.S. are accredited
by The Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care
International (AAALAC), a private, nonprofit, international organization that
promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary
accreditation and assessment programs. Portions of our preclinical business are
also generally regulated by the USDA.

Our import and export of animals in support of several
of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are
subject to a variety of national, regional, and local laws and regulations,
which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of
animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary
certificates, licenses, detailed standard operating procedures and other
documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane
treatment of the animals in our custody at our locations.

Our preclinical services business conducts nonclinical
laboratory safety studies intended to support the  registration or licensing of our clients’
products throughout the world. The conduct of these studies must comply with
national statutory or regulatory requirements for Good Laboratory Practice
(GLP). GLP regulations describe a quality system concerned with the
organizational process and the conditions under


which nonclinical
laboratory studies are planned, performed, monitored, recorded, archived and
reported. GLP compliance is required by such regulatory agencies as the FDA,
United States Environmental Protection Agency, European Agency for the
Evaluation of Medicinal Products, Department of Health (DOH) in the United
Kingdom, Health Canada, and the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare. GLP
requirements are significantly harmonized throughout the world and our
laboratories are capable of conducting studies in compliance with all
appropriate requirements. To assure our compliance obligations, we have
established quality assurance units (QAU) in each of our nonclinical
laboratories. The QAUs operate independently from those individuals that direct
and conduct studies and monitor each study to assure management that the
facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are
in compliance with GLP. Our laboratory managers use the results of QAU
monitoring as  part of a continuous
process improvement program to assure our nonclinical studies meet client and
regulatory expectations for quality and integrity.

Our clinical services business  conducts human clinical trials and provides
services in support of our clients’ registration or licensing applications. Human
clinical trials are conducted in a progressive fashion beginning with Phase I
to IV trials. Phase I studies are the initial human clinical trials and are
conducted with a small number of subjects under highly controlled conditions. Phase
II and III trials are conducted with an increasing number of subjects and under
actual clinical conditions, e.g., patients with the condition to be treated. Phase
IV clinical trials are conducted after product approval with a large number of
subjects under actual clinical conditions.  These clinical trials and services are
performed in accordance with the International Conference on Harmonization Good
Clinical Practice Guidelines and in compliance with regulations governing the
conduct of clinical investigations and the protection of human clinical trial
subjects. In the United States, these trials and services must comply with FDA
regulations and in Europe our clinical trials and services must comply with the
clinical trials directive of the European Union. Neither FDA regulations nor
the clinical trials directive requires a quality assurance program; however,
our Phase I facility has an established quality assurance unit that monitors
the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials to assure management that these
trials are conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements. We
also provide quality assurance oversight of our contracted clinical service
activities and offer quality assurance inspections and audits as a contract
service in Phase II through IV clinical trials.

Our manufacturing business produces endotoxin test
kits and reagents and vaccine support products. Additionally, the analytical
divisions of several of our nonclinical laboratories conduct stability and
potency testing in support of our clients’ manufacturing programs. These
activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and DOH under their respective
Good Manufacturing Practice regulations or the FDA’s Quality Systems Regulation
(manufacturing of medical devices). We are required to register with the FDA as
a device manufacturer and are subject to inspection on a routine basis for
compliance with these regulations. These regulations require that we
manufacture our products and maintain records of the manufacturing, testing and
control activities.

All of our sites are also subject to licensing and
regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and
air transportation of laboratory specimens, the handling, storage and disposal
of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the
safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently
in compliance in all material respects with such national, regional and local
laws, failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct
business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

To ensure that all
business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements
and satisfy our client expectations for quality, we have established a
corporate regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our
corporate quality system and all quality assurance functions within the company.
This organization reports to our Corporate Vice President for Regulatory
Affairs and Compliance.


Corporate Governance

We are committed to
operating our business with integrity and accountability. We strive to meet or
exceed  all of the corporate governance
standards established by the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and the Federal government as implemented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002.  Seven of  the eight members of our Board of Directors
are independent and have no significant financial, business or personal ties to
the Company or management and all of our Board committees are composed of
independent directors. The Board adheres to Corporate Governance Guidelines and
a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which has been communicated to employees
and posted on our website. We have always been diligent in complying with
established accounting principles and are committed to providing financial
information that is transparent, timely and accurate. We have established a
process through which employees, either directly or anonymously, can notify
management (and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors) of alleged
accounting and auditing concerns or violations including fraud. Our  internal Disclosure Committee meets regularly
and operates pursuant to formal disclosure procedures and guidelines which  help to ensure that our public disclosures
are accurate and timely. Copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code
of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on our website at www.criver.com
under the “Investors Relations—Corporate Governance” caption.

Item 1A.

Risk
Factors

Risks
Related to Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and
elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the
SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ
materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
statements contained in this Form 10-K.

The outsourcing trend in the preclinical and clinical
stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our
growth.

Over the past several years, some areas of our businesses
have grown significantly as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies outsourcing their preclinical and clinical research
support activities. We believe that due to the significant investment in
facilities and personnel required to support drug development, pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies look to outsource some or all of those services. By
doing so, they can focus their resources on their core competency of drug
discovery, while obtaining the outsourced services from a full-service provider
like Charles River. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to
continue for the next several years, a decrease in preclinical and/or clinical
outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of
one or more of our expected higher-growth areas and adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our customer
contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a
large contract or multiple contracts could adversely affect our sales and
profitability.

Our operations and
financial results could be significantly affected by the above-mentioned risks.

A reduction in research and development budgets at
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business.

Our customers include
researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to
continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the
ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to
continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the products and
services we provide. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of
these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on
the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets
fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers


of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and
institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by
any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures
by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic
institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. Similarly, economic
factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also
affect our business.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research
and development may adversely affect our business.

A portion of net sales in
our RMS segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research
laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing
of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of
Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Although the
level of government research funding has increased during the past several
years the size of budgetary increases has recently declined. Government funding
of research and development is subject to the political process, which is
inherently unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers
delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of
government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate
budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and
other government agencies that fund research and development activities. A
reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research
agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results.

Changes in government regulation or in practices
relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnological industries, including
potential health care reform could decrease the need for the services we
provide.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, but
particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development
process. Our business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes
in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the
introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in
regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our
services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand
for our services.

In recent years the United States Congress and state
legislatures have considered various types of health care reform in order to
control growing health care costs. We are unable to predict what legislative proposals
will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have occurred
in Europe and Asia.

Implementation of health
care reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be
made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research
and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in
the united States and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a
risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings.

Our standard customer agreements contain liberal
termination and service reduction provisions, which may result in less contract
revenue than we anticipate.

Generally, our agreements
with our customers provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or
reduce the scope of services under the agreements with little or no notice.
Customers may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons,
including: the products being tested fails to satisfy safety requirements;
unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in
shortages of the drug being tested; the customer’s decision to forego or
terminate a particular study; or the loss of funding for the particular
research study. If a customer terminates a contract with us, we are entitled
under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as
certain other costs and, in some cases, penalties. Cancellation of a large contract
or proximate cancellation of multiple


contracts
could materially adversely affect the Preclinical or Clinical segments’  business and, therefore, may adversely affect
our operating results.

Contaminations in our animal populations can damage
our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result
in decreased sales.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be
free of certain adventious, infectious agents such as certain viruses and
bacteria because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise
the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal
health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production
facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free
research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services
businesses including transgenic services, harm our reputation for
contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Contaminations typically
require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting and restarting production in the
contaminated barrier room or poultry house. This clean-up results in inventory
loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost
customer orders and credits for prior shipments. In addition, contaminations
expose us to risks that customers will request compensation for damages in
excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. These contaminations
are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial
results. We have made significant capital expenditures designed to strengthen
our biosecurity and have significantly improved our operating procedures to
protect against such contaminations, however, contaminations may still occur.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating
internationally.

A significant part
of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our
international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries,
represented  48.5% of our total net sales
in 2005, 36.3% of our total net sales in 2004, and 30.8% in 2003. We expect
that international revenues will continue to account for a significant
percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of
risks associated with our international business, including:

·

foreign
currencies we receive for sales outside the United States could be subject to
unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of
revenue that we recognize;

·

general
economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

·

potential
international conflicts, including terrorist acts;

·

potential
increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;

·

potential
trade restrictions and exchange controls;

·

difficulties
and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including
risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by
employees oversees;

·

unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements;

·

the
difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

·

unfavorable
labor regulations, including specifically those applicable to our European
operations;

·

longer
accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

·

import and export licensing
requirements.


Negative attention from special interest groups may
impair our business.

The products and services
which we provide our customers are essential 
to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost
universally mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interests groups
categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically,
our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not
been the subject of animal rights media attention. However, research activities
with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, impacting our
industry. This has included occasional, but infrequent, on-site demonstrations
at facilities operated by us. Any negative attention or threats directed
against our animal research activities in the future could impair our ability
to operate our business efficiently. In addition, if regulatory authorities
were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures which
utilize laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), our
business could be materially adversely effected.

Several of our product and service offerings are
dependent on a limited source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely
affect our business.

We depend on a limited
international source of supply of large animal models required in our product
and service offerings. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from
colony fertility and health problems, export or import restrictions or
embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather
conditions, disruptions to the air travel system or contract disputes or
disruptions. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot
remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary
supply source on comparable commercial terms.

We may be unable to build out our facilities as
anticipated.

To take advantage of our
customers’ continued growing demand for drug discovery and development
services, including increased strategic focus on outsourcing services and
programs, we are engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program, with
approximately $175-$200 million allocated for capital expenditures for
2006. Included in this build-out are two U.S. Preclinical Services facilities—one
in Massachusetts scheduled to be online by the end of 2006 and one in Nevada
scheduled for 2007—and an expansion of our RMS California capabilities
scheduled to partially open in the fourth quarter of 2006. We cannot assure you
that any or all of these facilities will be constructed on the anticipated
timetable or on budget. Any material delay in bringing these facilities
on-line, or substantial increase in costs to complete these facilities, could
materially and adversely affect us.

Any failure by us to comply with existing regulations
could harm our reputation and operating results.

Any failure on our part to
comply with existing regulations could result in the termination of ongoing
research or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory
authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and
our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed
consent is obtained from patient participants in connection with a particular
Phase I clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be
disqualified and we might be required to redo the trial at no further cost to
our customer, but at substantial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a
notice from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good
clinical practice, good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice
requirements could materially and adversely affect us.

The drug discovery and development services industry
is highly competitive.

The drug discovery and
development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for
business not only with other drug discovery and development companies, but also
with internal discovery and development departments within our clients, who are
often large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with greater resources
than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. If


we do
not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might
lead to price and other forms of competition that might adversely affect our
operating results. As a result of competitive pressures, the drug discovery and
development services industry has been consolidating. This trend is likely to
produce more competition among the larger companies for both clients and
acquisition candidates. In addition, for some of our business segments, there
are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering
entering the industry. Because of their size and focus, these companies might
compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a
material adverse impact on our business.

Tax benefits we expect to be available in the future
may be subject to challenge.

In connection with our
1999 recapitalization, our then current shareholders, CRL Acquisition LLC (CRL
Acquisition) and Bausch & Lomb Incorporated (B&L), made a joint
election intended to permit us to increase the depreciable and amortizable tax
basis in our assets for federal income tax purposes, thereby providing us with
expected future tax benefits. In connection with our initial public offering in
2000, CRL Acquisition reorganized, terminated its existence as a corporation
for tax purposes and distributed a substantial portion of its stock to its
members. We believe that the reorganization and liquidating distribution should
not have any impact on the election for federal income tax purposes. However,
it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may contend that this
reorganization and liquidating distribution should be integrated with our
original recapitalization. If the IRS were to be successful with this
contention, the expected future tax benefits at the time of the
recapitalization would not be available and we would be required to write off
the related deferred tax asset.

We could be adversely affected by tax law changes in
the United Kingdom or Canada.

We have substantial
operations in the United Kingdom and Canada which currently benefit from
favorable corporate tax arrangements. We receive substantial tax credits in
Canada from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments and it benefits
from tax credits and accelerated tax depreciation allowances in the United
Kingdom. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or
allowances would be likely to have a material adverse effect on profits and
cash flow from either or both of our Canadian and United Kingdom operations,
and on our effective tax rate.

Impairment of goodwill arising from the acquisition of
Inveresk may adversely impact future results of operations.

We accounted for our
acquisition of Inveresk as a purchase under accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Under the purchase method of accounting, the
assets and liabilities of Inveresk, including identifiable intangible assets,
have been recorded at their respective fair values as of the date the
acquisition was completed. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value
of acquired net assets and liabilities was recorded as goodwill. As a result of
the combination, we have recorded $1.3 billion of additional goodwill and
$0.2 billion of other intangible assets, which are material to us. The
goodwill will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment by us at
least annually. If the future growth and operating results of the acquired
businesses are not as strong as anticipated, goodwill may be impaired. To the
extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its
implied fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an
impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results
and financial condition.

Our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations could
adversely affect our results of operations.

We derive a significant
portion of our revenue from operations outside of the United States, primarily
from our operations in Canada and the United Kingdom, where significant amounts
of revenues and expenses are recorded in local (non-U.S.) currency. Our
financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, changes in
currency exchange rates, particularly between the pound sterling, the Canadian


dollar,
the European Euro and the U.S. dollar, will cause fluctuations in our reported
financial results, which could be material. In addition, our contracts with
foreign customers are frequently denominated in currencies other than the
currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts. This is
particularly the case with respect to the Canadian operations we acquired from
Inveresk, where contracts generally provide for invoicing clients in U.S.
dollars but its expenses are generally incurred in Canadian dollars. Where
expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are
priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Contract research services create a risk of liability.

In contracting to
work on drug development trials, as a contract research organization we face a
range of potential liabilities, for example:

·

errors
or omissions that create harm during a trial to study volunteers or after a
trial to consumers of the drug after regulatory approval of the drug;

·

general
risks associated with Phase I facilities, including negative consequences from
the administration of drugs to clinical trial participants or the professional
malpractice of Phase I medical care providers;

·

errors
or omissions from tests conducted for the agrochemical and food industries;

·

risks
that animals in our breeding facilities may be infected with diseases that may
be harmful and even lethal to themselves and humans despite preventive measures
contained in our company policies for the quarantine and handling of imported
animals; and

·

errors
and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or
data from the trial.

We mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities
through our regiment of animal testing, quarantine, and veterinary staff
vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related
disease or infections. Nonetheless, it is impossible to completely eradicate
such risks.

We also contract with physicians, also referred to as
investigators, to conduct the clinical trials to test new drugs on human
volunteers. These tests can create a risk of liability for personal injury or
death to volunteers, resulting from negative reactions to the drugs
administered or from professional malpractice by third party investigators,
particularly to volunteers with life-threatening illnesses. We believe that our
risks in this area are generally reduced by the contract provisions entitling
us to be indemnified or entitling us to a limitation of liability; insurance
maintained by our clients, investigators, and by us; and various regulatory
requirements we must follow in connection with our business.

Contractual
indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from
certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be
materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear
the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual
indemnification provision or in the event that a party who must indemnify us
does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level
of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will
be able to maintain such insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us.

If we are unable to attract suitable investigators and
volunteers for our clinical trials, our business might suffer.

The clinical research
studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of
physician investigators and volunteer subjects. Investigators are typically
located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise administration of
the study drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. Volunteer
subjects generally include people from the communities in which the studies are
conducted,


including
our Phase I clinic in Edinburgh, Scotland, which to date has provided a
substantial pool of potential subjects for research studies. Our clinical
research development business could be adversely affected if we were unable to
attract suitable and willing investigators or volunteers on a consistent basis.

New technologies may be developed, validated and
increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of
our products and services.

For many years, groups
within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop
models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the use of living
animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Companies have developed
several techniques that have scientific merit. It is our strategy to
participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method as it becomes
validated as a research model alternative or adjunct in our markets. However,
we may not be successful in commercializing these methods if developed, and
sales or profits from these methods may not offset reduced sales or profits
from research models. Alternative research methods could decrease the need for
research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or
in a timely manner to replace any lost sales.

If we are not successful in selecting and integrating
the businesses and technologies we acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past
five years, we have expanded our business through several acquisitions. We plan
to continue acquire businesses and technologies and form alliances. However,
businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we
find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating
with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing the
transaction. Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous
risks which may include:

·

difficulties
and expenses incurred in assimilating operations, services, products or
technologies;

·

difficulties
in developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management’s
attention from other business concerns;

·

potential
losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies are not
covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller;

·

risks
of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices,
language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of
foreign companies;

·

the
presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in
the financial systems of acquired companies; and

·

difficulties
in achieving business and financial success.

In the event that an
acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet expectations, our
results of operations may be adversely affected.

We depend on key personnel and may not be able to
retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would
harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the
continued services of our senior management and other members of management.
James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since
2000, has held various positions with us for 29 years. We have no
employment agreement with Mr. Foster or other members of our management.
If Mr. Foster or other members of management do not continue in their
present positions, our business may suffer.


Because of the specialized
scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified
scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have an excellent
record of employee retention, there is still strong competition for qualified
personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not
be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the
development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as
well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and
managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could
negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations
in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such
factors as the number and scope of ongoing customer engagements, the
commencement, postponement, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in
the quarter, changes in the mix of our products and services, the extent of
cost overruns, holiday patterns of our customers, budget cycles of our
customers, and exchange rate fluctuations. We believe that operating results
for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of
future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results
could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
Staff Comments

There are no unresolved
comments to be reported in response to Item 1B.

Item 2.

Properties

We own and lease our
facilities. We own large facilities (over 50,000 square feet) for our
Preclinical Services businesses in the United States, Canada, Scotland and
Ireland, and lease large facilities in the United States and Canada. We are in
the process of bringing two U.S. Preclinical Service facilities online—one in
Massachusetts by end of 2006 and one in Nevada in 2007. We own large RMS
facilities in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, and the
United States. Presently, we are expanding our California capabilities through
a build-out scheduled to partially open in the fourth quarter of 2006. We lease
all our Clinical Services facilities, including large facilities in the United
States. None of our leases are individually material to our business operations
and many have an option to renew. We believe that we will be able to
successfully renew expiring leases on terms satisfactory to us. We believe that
our facilities are adequate for our operations and that suitable additional
space will be available when needed. For additional information see Note 7
to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

We are not a party to any
material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental
to our business that is not material to our business or financial condition.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


Supplementary
Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item
401(b) of Regulation S-K.

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations
for the last five years of each our current executive officers. All such
persons have been elected to serve until their successors are elected and
qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.

Joanne P. Acford,

age 50, joined us in 2004 as Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel
and Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining us, Ms. Acford held a number of
positions over 20 years at John Hancock Financial Services, Inc.,
most recently as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Previously, Ms. Acford
was an associate in the Corporate Department at Hale and Dorr.

Thomas F. Ackerman,

age 51, joined us in 1988 with over eleven years of combined public accounting
and international finance experience. He was named Controller, North America in
1992 and became our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In
1999, he was named a Senior Vice President and in 2005 he was named a Corporate
Executive Vice President. He is currently responsible for overseeing our
Accounting and Finance Department and several other corporate staff
departments. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman was an accountant at Arthur
Andersen & Co.

Brian Bathgate,

age
46, joined us in 2004 with the acquisition of Inveresk. He is a Corporate Vice
President and President, European Preclinical. He served as President of
Inveresk’s Preclinical Europe operations since April 2001. Dr. Bathgate
served as General Manager of Inveresk Research International Limited from 1996
until April 2001, responsible for all activities relating to the European
preclinical business.

David
J. Elliott,

age 48, joined us in October 2005 as
Corporate Vice President, Corporate Controller. Prior to joining us, Mr. Elliott
was Corporate Controller for Cabot Corporation. Prior to Cabot, he had over
twenty years diverse, financial experience with large, multinational companies
in the chemical industry. He is responsible for the corporate accounting and
purchasing functions and oversees all accounting and control activities
globally.

John
C. Ho,

age
46, joined us in January 2006 as Corporate Senior Vice President,
Corporate Strategy. Dr. Ho has over 16 years experience serving
pharmaceutical, biotech, medical device and provider organizations in a variety
of capacities including corporate and M&A strategy formulation, product
commercialization, investment decision-making, process reengineering and
organizational redesign. Prior to joining us, Dr. Ho was a partner in
Accenture’s Health and Life Sciences Practice, where he led the Preclinical
Development and the Medical Device Practices, and before that he was a member
of the Life Science Industry Group of Pittiglio Rabin Todd & McGrath.

James C. Foster,

age 55, joined us in 1976 as General Counsel. Over the past 29 years, Mr. Foster
has held various staff and managerial positions, and was named our President in
1991, Chief Executive Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000.

Jörg M. Geller,

age
51, joined us in 1986 as a production manager in our animal production facility
in Germany and has had various management positions since then. In 1994, Mr. Geller
became Vice President, Charles River Europe, responsible for our activities in
Germany and Northern and Eastern Europe. In 1997, Mr. Geller assumed
responsibility for our avian production unit (SPAFAS) and in 2003 was named a
Corporate Vice President.

Nancy A. Gillett,

age 50, joined us in 1999 with the acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett
has 21 years of experience as an ACVP board certified pathologist and
scientific manager. In 1999, she became Senior Vice President and General
Manager of our Sierra Biomedical division, and subsequently held a variety of
managerial positions, including President and General Manager of Sierra
Biomedical and Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Drug Discovery
and Development (the predecessor to


our Preclinical Services
business segment). In 2004, Dr. Gillett became Corporate Senior Vice
President and President, Global Preclinical Services.

David P. Johst,

age
44, joined us in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Human
Resources in 1995. He became Vice President, Human Resources and Administration
in 1996, a Senior Vice President in 1999, and a Corporate Executive Vice
President in 2005. He currently serves as the Company’s Chief Administrative
Officer and is responsible for overseeing our Human Resources department, our
Consulting and Staffing Services business unit and several other corporate
staff departments. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Johst was an attorney
in the Corporate Department at Hale and Dorr.

Real H. Renaud,

age
58, joined us in 1964 and has over 40 years of research models production
and related management experience. In 1986, Mr. Renaud became Vice
President of Production, with responsibility for overseeing the Company’s North
American small animal operations, and was named Vice President, Worldwide
Production in 1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice President and General Manager,
European and North American Animal Operations in 1996, following a two-year
European assignment during which he provided direct oversight to our European
operations. In 1999, he became a Senior Vice President and in 2003, Mr. Renaud
became Executive Vice President and General Manager, Global Research Models and
Services.


PART II

Item 5.

Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases Of Equity Securities

Our
common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 23, 2000
under the symbol “CRL.” The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated below the high and low sales prices for our common stock.


High

Low

First quarter
  (through March 1, 2006)

$

49.53

$

41.99


High

Low

First quarter

$

51.64

$

43.99

Second quarter

49.52

45.16

Third quarter

53.09

42.80

Fourth quarter

46.00

40.50


High

Low

First quarter

$

45.15

$

33.56

Second quarter

47.60

41.79

Third quarter

48.97

41.57

Fourth quarter

49.05

44.31

There were no equity
securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, sold by the Company during the fiscal year ended December 31,
2005.

Shareholders

As of March 1, 2006,
there were approximately 465 registered shareholders of the outstanding shares
of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or
paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past two years and
we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently
intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. Some
of the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit agreement and
term loan agreements limit our ability to pay dividends.


Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities

The
following table provides information relating to the Company’s purchases of
shares of its common stock during 2005.

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased

Average Price

Paid per Share

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

as Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

Approximate Dollar

Value of Shares

That May Yet Be

Purchased Under the

Plans or Programs

July 27,
  2005–August 20, 2005

—

$

—

—

$

100,000,000

August 21, 2005–September 24, 2005

66,175

$

47.04

56,000

$

97,397,210

September 25, 2005–October 22, 2005

100,000

$

43.25

100,000

$

93,069,483

October 23, 2005–November 19, 2005

100,000

$

43.45

100,000

$

88,721,984

November 20,
  2005–December 31, 2005

140,000

$

44.31

140,000

$

82,514,855

On July 27, 2005, the
Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to acquire up to $50.0
million of common stock. In order to facilitate these share repurchases, the
Company has entered into a Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plan. During the
three months ended December 31, 2005, the Company repurchased 340,000 shares
of common stock for approximately $14.9 million. The timing and amount of any
future repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate
considerations. On October 26, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized
increasing the share repurchase program by $50.0 million to a total of $100.0
million.

Securities
Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The
following table summarizes, as of December 31, 2005, the number of options
issued under the Company’s stock option plans and the number of options
available for future issuance under these plans.


Item 6.

Selected
Consolidated Financial Data

The
following table presents our selected consolidated financial data and other
data as of and for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, December 25,
2004, December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29,
2001. The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 31,
2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003, and the Balance Sheet
Data at December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 have been derived
from the audited consolidated financial statements for such years, included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Statement of Income Data and Other
Data for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2002 and December 29,
2001 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 27, 2003,  December 28, 2002 and December 29,
2001 have been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements for
such years not included in this Form 10-K. You should read the
selected consolidated financial data contained in this table in conjunction
with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.

(1)

Our fiscal year consists
of 12 months ending on the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

We are a leading global provider
of solutions that advance the drug discovery and development process.

These
solutions include research models and outsourced preclinical and clinical
services, and are designed to enable our clients to bring drugs to market
faster and more efficiently. Our products and services are organized into three
categories spanning every step of the drug development pipeline: Research
Models and Services, Preclinical Services, and Clinical Services. We have been
in business for more than 58 years, and our customer base includes all of the
major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies, government
agencies, leading hospitals and academic institutions.

Our significant sales growth during 2005 was primarily
due to the acquisition of Inveresk at the end of 2004, as well as organic
growth in all segments. Our overall results of operations were further enhanced
by the completion of the integration of Inveresk: unifying our products and
services under our strong brand name,

the harmonizing of best practices derived from the combination, and our
achievement of our cost savings goal. The businesses that we acquired in the
Inveresk acquisition- primarily our Preclinical Services and Clinical Services
segments—traditionally experience margins less robust than in our historical
RMS segment, and the overall impact on our total margins were clearly reflected
for the first time in fiscal 2005. Future drivers for our products and
services as a whole are primarily expected to emerge from our customers’
continued growing demand for drug discovery and development services, including
increased strategic focus on outsourcing should drive future sales for our
products and services. To take advantage of these long term opportunities, we
are engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program, with approximately $175–$200
million allocated for these capital expenditures. In addition to internally-generated
organic growth, our business strategy includes strategic “bolt-on” acquisitions
that complement our business and increase the rate of our growth.

Our total net sales in 2005 were $1.12 billion,
an increase of 46.3% over the prior year due primarily to the acquisition of
Inveresk, as well as organic growth in all segments. Pro forma sales growth was
10.2% which included a 0.2% negative impact of foreign currency translation.
Our gross margin decreased to 38.2% of net sales, compared to 38.9% of net
sales for the prior years’ period, due to the greater proportion of Preclinical
and Clinical services in the sales mix as well as a decline in the Research
Models and Services gross margin rate. Operating income for the year was $181.0
million compared to $160.3 million for 2004. The operating margin for 2005
was 16.1% compared to 20.9% for the prior year. Our 2005 operating margin rate
was unfavorably impacted by $72.7 million (6.5%) due to amortization of
intangibles related to the acquisition of Inveresk of $53.9 million,
stock-based compensation expense related to the acquisition of Inveresk of
$7.8 million, the impairment of the Wisconsin Preclinical Services
business of $6.5 million, a charge for the acceleration of certain stock
options of $1.6 million, Clinical Services lease impairment of $1.6 million,
and $1.3 million in fees related to the repatriation of cash pursuant to the
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (AJCA).

Net income was $142.0 million in 2005 compared to
$89.8 million in 2004. Diluted earnings per share for 2005 were $1.96
compared to $1.68 in 2004. Our increased earnings in 2005 were due to the
acquisition of Inveresk, as well as organic growth in all segments. In
addition, 2005 results were impacted favorably by the reversal of a deferred
tax liability ($28.3 million) and unfavorably impacted by the operating income
items of $72.7 million, discussed above, as well as the deferred financing
write-off of $2.1 million related to the AJCA cash repatriation.

Our RMS segment, representing 44.8% of net sales in
2005,  includes sales of research models,
transgenic services, laboratory services, preconditioning and surgical
services, consulting and staffing services, vaccine support and in vitro technology
(primarily exdotoxin testing). Net sales for this segment increased 5.6% over
the same period in 2004 due to growth in research model, laboratory services
and in vitro sales, partially offset by lower transgenic sales. In 2005, the
RMS business continued to benefit from


the market for a number of
our product lines, and particularly in specialty models and in vitro sales,
although we were negatively impacted by the continuing slowdown in the
Transgenics Services market in the U.S. Overall RMS operating margin remained
essentially flat at 31.8% of net sales in 2005, compared to 32.0% of net sales
for the prior year. During 2006 we will add new capacity in California to meet
our customers’ increased need for models, preconditioning services and
value-added model characterization services for their drug discovery and
development efforts. Preconditioning services presents an excellent opportunity
for future growth, as over the next two years we intend to open at least one
new room at each of our breeding facilities to take advantage of our core
competency of laboratory animal medicine, which should permit our customers to
take advantage of outsourcing efficiencies these capabilities will provide.

Our Preclinical Services segment, representing 43.5%
of net sales in 2005, includes products and services required to take a drug or
medical device through the development process including discovery support
services, toxicology services, interventional pathology services,
biopharmaceutical services; and bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism
services. Sales for this segment increased 83.6% over the same period last year
which included pro forma sales growth of 17.2% due mainly to the Inveresk
acquisition and the continued favorable market conditions this year as demand
remained strong, especially for toxicology. Our primary focus during 2005 was
in integrating Inveresk’s Preclinical Services business with ours while
maintaining operating growth. Fortunately, our Preclinical Services business
continued to experience favorable market conditions this year as demand
remained strong, especially for toxicology services, although sales growth was
negatively impacted by softness in our interventional and surgical services and
biopharmaceutical services businesses. In addition, operating margins in Preclinical
Services benefited from increased operating efficiencies, although there was a
noted decrease in operating margins in the fourth quarter of 2005 primarily
attributable to an extra week in the quarter. We expect to see improving levels
of customer demand in certain of our development services businesses,
particularly large animal, reproductive toxicology and inhalation. We continue
to focus on meeting the growing demand for our preclinical services and
increased outsourcing trends through our expansion program. During 2005 we
opened new capacity in Montreal, Canada and purchased an additional facility in
Massachusetts which we expect will be outfitted and online in late 2006 and in
the first quarter of 2007. In addition, in 2006, we plan to bring on new
capacity in Edinburgh, Scotland as well as purchase a new West Coast
preclinical facility which we expect will be online in 2007.

Our Clinical Services segment, which represented 11.6%
of net sales in 2005, was created as a result of the acquisition of Inveresk’s
clinical service business. This business segment conducts Phase I clinical
trials and provides Phase II-IV clinical trials management services which
include testing, medical data sciences services and regulatory support. Our
Clinical services business benefits from our focus on key therapeutic areas
including oncology, ophthalmology, cardiovascular, respiratory, and infectious
diseases. We believe that our Clinical Services segment can succeed best though
this targeted focus—offering technical depth in a limited number of specialties—and
an emphasis on margin improvement. In 2005, we observed a lengthening of time
to convert verbal awards to signed contracts, which negatively impacted sales
growth throughout the industry, but particularly in the U.S. In 2005, we
enhanced our medical data services capabilities through technological
investments which are intended to enhance our service offerings. Overall, in
2006, we are focusing on Clinical Services margin expansion and should benefit
towards this goal from our fourth quarter 2005 personnel and facilities
reductions.


The
following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of each of
our reportable segments for the past three years. They also show cost of
products sold and services provided, selling, general and administrative
expenses, amortization of goodwill and intangibles and operating income by
segment and as percentages of their respective segment net sales.


In our consolidated
statements of income, we provide a breakdown of net sales and cost of sales
between net products and services. Such information is reported irrespective of
the business segment from which the sales were generated.


Results of Operations

The
following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of
net sales for the periods shown:

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of these financial statements requires
management to use judgment when making assumptions that are involved in
preparing estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis,
management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Some of those estimates can
be complex and require management to make estimates about the future and actual
results could differ from those estimates. Management bases its estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given
estimate or assumption made by management, there may also be other estimates or
assumptions that are reasonable.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes the
following critical accounting policies are most affected by significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial
statements. The following summary should be read in conjunction with our
consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in
this Form 10-K. We believe the following critical accounting policies
and estimates affected our more significant judgments and estimates than usual
in the preparation of our consolidated financial statement:

·

Goodwill
and other intangible assets

·

Revenue
recognition

·

Pension
plan accounting

·

Income
taxes and deferred tax assets


Goodwill, Other
Intangible Assets.

We have intangible assets,
including goodwill and other identifiable finite and indefinite-lived
acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to the acquisition of Inveresk as
well other businesses we acquired. The identification and valuation of these
intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the
time of acquisition require significant management judgments and estimates.
These estimates are made based on, among others, input from an accredited
independent valuation consultant, reviews of projected future income cash flows
and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions
could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other
intangible assets, and potentially result in a different impact to our results
of operations.

We perform an annual review  of goodwill to determine if an impairment
exists. Goodwill is considered impaired if we determine that the carrying value
of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. Assessing the impairment of
goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value
of the net assets of our reporting units. Our evaluation includes management
estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal strategic review. Key
assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review
along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. Our market
capitalization was also compared to the discounted cash flow analysis. We
performed annual impairment tests in 2005 and concluded the goodwill and other
indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were not impaired. As of December 31,
2005, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $1.6 billion in
the consolidated balance sheet. The results of this year’s impairment review is
as of a point in time and changes in future business strategy or market
conditions could significantly impact the assumptions used in calculating the
fair value of these assets in subsequent years.

Revenue Recognition.

We recognize
revenue on product and services sales. We record product revenue when
persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price
to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Recognition of service revenue is primarily based on the completion of
agreed-upon service procedures including rate specified contracts and fixed fee
contracts. Revenue of agreed-upon rate contracts is recognized as services are
performed, based on rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee
contracts is recognized as services are performed in accordance with procedures
specified by the customers in the form of study protocols. The recognition of
service revenue requires management judgments primarily relating to the
determination of the level of service procedures performed during the period.
In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is
initiated. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue as services
are performed. Conversely, in some cases, revenue is recorded based on the
level of service performed in advance of billing the customer. This revenue is
recorded as unbilled sales. As of December 31, 2005, we had recorded
unbilled revenue of $56.6 million and deferred revenue of
$116.3 million in our consolidated balance sheet based on the difference
between the estimated level of services performed and the billing arrangements
defined by our service contracts.

Pension Plan
Accounting.

As of December 31, 2005, we had a
pension liability of $52.8 million. The actuarial computations require the
use assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to employees
and allocate this cost to the service periods. The key assumptions include the
discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and expected future rate of
salary increases. In addition, our actuaries determine the expense or liability
of the plan using other assumptions for future experiences such as withdrawal
and mortality rate. The key assumptions used to calculate pension costs are
determined and reviewed annually by management after consulting with outside
investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed discount rate, which is intended
to be the actual rate at which benefits could effectively be settled, is
adjusted based on the change in the long-term bond yield as of the measurement
date. As of December 31, 2005 the weighted average discount rate for our
pension plans was 5.28%.

The assumed expected return on plan assets is the
average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide
future benefits to pension plan participants. This includes considering the
assets


allocation and expected
returns likely to be earned over the life of the plan. If the actual return is
different from the assumed expected return in plan assets, the difference would
be amortized over a period of approximately 15 to 20 years. During 2005,
based on our most recent analysis of historical and projected returns, we
lowered our expected return on plan assets resulting in a weighted average
return of 7.28% from 7.63%. This is expected to increase the annual pension
expense by approximately $0.5 million in 2006. The estimated effect of a
1.0% change in the expected rate of return would increase pension expense by
$1.4 million.

Income Taxes and
Deferred Tax Assets.

As part of the process of
preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate
our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process
involves estimating our current tax exposure and assessing temporary and
permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and
accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and
liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. In certain
cases, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be
recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that
recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. In the event
that actual results differ from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates
in future periods, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance
which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.

As of December 31, 2005, we had a valuation
allowance of approximately $6.4 million. The valuation allowance is
recorded against deferred tax assets for net operating loss carryforwards in
jurisdictions where management does not believe it is more likely than not a
benefit will be realized. Approximately $5.7 million of the valuation
allowance was established against deferred tax assets acquired as part of the
Inveresk acquisition and any future recognition of the asset will result in an
adjustment to goodwill. We have recognized the balance of the deferred tax
asset on the belief that it is more likely than not it will be realized. This
belief is based on all available evidence including historical operating
results, projections of taxable income, and tax planning strategies.

As of December 31, 2005, earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled
$147.9 million. No provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided
thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or
otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable
to the various foreign countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount
of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

We are a worldwide business and operate in various tax
jurisdictions where tax laws and tax rates are subject to change given the
political and economic climate in these countries. We report and pay income
taxes based upon operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision
contemplates tax rates in effect to determine both the current and deferred tax
position. Any significant fluctuation in rates or in tax laws could cause our
estimate of taxes that we anticipate to change. These changes could result in
either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

Our tax positions are consistently
subject to challenge by taxing authorities around the world. Due to our size
and the number of tax jurisdictions within which we conduct our business
operations, we are subject to tax audits on a regular basis. As a result, we
have tax reserves which are attributable to potential tax obligations around
the world. We believe the reserves are necessary to adequately reflect tax
obligations which may arise out of current and future audits.

Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

Net Sales.

Net sales in
2005 were $1,122 million, an increase of $355.3 million, or 46.3%,
from $766.9 million in 2004.


Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, net sales from our RMS segment were $503.2 million, an increase of
$26.5 million, or 5.6%, from $476.7 million in 2004. Favorable
foreign currency translation contributed approximately 0.2% to our net sales
gain. RMS global prices increased 
approximately 3% and unit volume of both models and services  increased approximately 2%. Sales of our
research models and services increased, particularly in North America, due to
growing market demand for our higher priced specialty units partially offset by
a continued slowdown in the transgenic service market. The RMS sales increase
was driven by increases in basic research and biotechnology spending which
drove greater demand for our products and services.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $488.5 million,
an increase of $222.5 million, or 83.6%, compared to $266.0 million
in 2004. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Inveresk in October 2004
and the increased customer demand for toxicology and other preclinical services
partially offset by the negative impact of softness in our interventional and
surgical services and biopharmaceutical services businesses. Our Preclinical
Services business benefited from the growth of the preclinical market
reflecting increased drug development efforts and outsourcing trends. Foreign
currency unfavorably impacted the sales growth rate by less than 0.4%.

Clinical
Services.

In
2005, net sales from our Clinical Services segment were $130.5 million. Sales
from our Clinical Services segment in 2004 were $24.3 million. In the fourth
quarter of 2004, we entered the clinical services business with the acquisition
of Inveresk. Our Clinical services business benefited from our focus on key
areas of therapeutic clinical trials and higher sales in our European Phase II–IV
business.

Cost of Products
Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2005 was $693.5 million, an increase of
$225.2 million, or 48.1%, from $468.4 million in 2004. Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2005 was 61.8% of net sales, compared to
61.1% in 2004 due to the greater proportion of Preclinical and Clinical
Services in our sales mix and increased costs in the RMS segment, partially
offset by greater capacity utilization in the Preclinical and Clinical
segments.

Research
Models and Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2005 was $287.5 million,
an increase of $17.6 million, or 6.5%, compared to $269.9 million in
2004. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2005 increased to 57.1% of
net sales compared to 56.6% of net sales in 2004. The increase in cost of
products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily
due to the slow down in the transgenic services sales and higher fuel costs.

Preclinical
Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in
2005 was $318.9 million, an increase of $139.2 million, or 77.5%,
compared to $179.7 million in 2004. Cost of products sold and services
provided as a percentage of net sales was 65.3% in 2005, compared to 67.6% in
2004. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was primarily due to improved capacity utilization from
the increased sales of services along with select pricing increases.

Clinical
Services.

In
the fourth quarter of 2004, we entered the clinical services business with the
acquisition of Inveresk. Cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was 66.7% in 2005, compared to 77.2% in 2004 due to our
focus on key areas of therapeutic clinical trials.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2005 were $189.5 million, an
increase of $68.1 million, or 56.1%, from $121.4 million in 2004.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 were 16.9% of net sales
compared to 15.8% of net sales in 2004. The increase as a percent of sales was
due primarily to the impact of our restricted stock grant in 2005, stock based
compensation, the closure of the Preclinical Wisconsin facility of $6.5
million, a charge for the acceleration of stock options of $1.6 million,
Clinical lease impairment of $1.6 million and fees related to the repatriation
of $1.3 million.


Research
Models and Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2005 were $55.6 million, an
increase of $1.5 million, or 2.8%, compared to $54.1 million in 2004.
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased slightly as a percentage
of sales to 11.0% in 2005 from 11.3% in 2004.

Preclinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in
2005 were $65.3 million, an increase of $26.8 million, or 69.6%,
compared to $38.5 million in 2004. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2005 decreased to 13.4% of net sales, compared to 14.5% of net
sales in 2004. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as
a percent of sales in 2005 was due primarily to the increased sales offsetting
the effect of increased expenses which include the impairment charge related to
the Wisconsin facility of $6.5 million.

Clinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2005 were $25.3 million, or 19.4% of net
sales in, compared to 9.5% in 2004. The increase in selling general and
administrative expenses was due primarily to the full year effect of  Clinical Services and the lease impairment of
$1.6 million.

Unallocated
Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated
corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including
those associated with pension, executive salaries and departments such as
corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $43.3 million in
2005, compared to $26.6 million in 2004. The substantial increase in
unallocated corporate overhead in 2005 was due to our restricted stock
compensation, Inveresk related stock based compensation and professional fees
associated with the repatriation.

Amortization of
Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles
in 2005 was $58.2 million, an increase of $41.4 million, from
$16.8 million in 2004. The increased amortization was primarily due to the
acquisition of Inveresk.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was
$0.3 million, an increase of $0.1 million from $0.2 million in
2004.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment
was $45.8 million, an increase of $31.7 million from
$14.1 million in 2004. The increase in amortization of other intangibles
was primarily due to the full-year effect of the Inveresk acquisition.

Clinical
Services.

In
2005, amortization of other intangibles for our Clinical Services segment was
$12.1 million due to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Operating Income.

Operating
income in 2005 was $181.0 million, an increase of $20.7 million, or
12.9%, from $160.3 million in 2004. Operating income in 2005 was 16.1% of
net sales, compared to 20.9% of net sales in 2004. The decrease as a percent of
sales was due primarily to the unfavorable impact of amortization of
intangibles and the stock-based compensation in both cases relating to our
acquisition of Inveresk as well as the increased mix of Preclinical and Clinical
services in our overall business.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2005, operating income for our RMS segment was $159.8 million, an increase
of $7.2 million, or 4.7%, from $152.6 million in 2004. Operating
income as a percentage of net sales in 2005 was 31.8%, compared to 32.0% in
2004. The decrease in operating income as a percent to sales was primarily due
to increase in cost of products sold and services provided due to the slowdown
in the Transgenic services.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2005, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was
$58.9 million, an increase of $25.3 million, or 75.3%, from
$33.6 million in 2004. Operating income as a percentage of net sales
decreased to 12.1%, compared to 12.6% of net sales in 2004. The decrease in
operating income as a percent of sales in 2005 was primarily due to Inveresk
amortization, the impact of the charge related to our Wisconsin facility
partially offset by greater efficiencies in cost of products sold and services
provided and particularly global toxicology sales.


Clinical
Services.

In
2005, operating income for our Clinical Services segment was $6.0 million.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales was 4.6% in 2005, compared to
2.9% of net sales in 2004. The increase in operating income as a percent of
sales in 2005 was primarily due to greater efficiencies in cost of products
sold and services provided.

Interest Expense.

Interest
expense in 2005 was $24.4 million, compared to $11.8 million in 2004.
The $12.6 million increase was primarily due to the increased borrowing as
a result of the Inveresk acquisition.

Income Taxes.

Income tax
expense for 2005 was $16.6 million or 10.3%, a decrease of $44.6 million
compared to $61.2 million or 40.1% in 2004. The decrease is primarily
attributable to a net benefit of $28.3 million or 17.6% from the effects of a
distribution under the AJCA of $24.1 million, the change of the Company’s
assertion with respect to the remaining Inveresk pre-acquisition earnings of
$29.2 million, offset by a tax charge related to the Company’s restructuring of
its UK operations as a part of the plan of distribution of $23.1 million and a
charge of $1.9 million related to the write off of deferred tax assets. The
Company’s 2005 income tax expense also reflects a full year tax benefit from
tax credits and enhanced deductions in Canada and the United Kingdom from
research and development spending of $12.0 million or 7.5%.

Net Income.

Net income in
2005 was $142.0 million, an increase of $52.2 million from
$89.8 million in 2004.

Fiscal 2004 Compared to Fiscal 2003

Net Sales.

Net sales in
2004 were $766.9 million, an increase of $153.2 million, or 25.0%,
from $613.7 million in 2003.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2004, net sales from our RMS segment were $476.7 million, an increase of
$48.5 million, or 11.3%, from $428.2 million in 2003. Favorable
foreign currency translation contributed approximately 4% to our net sales
gain. RMS global prices increased in a range up to 5% with the weighted average
increase approximately 3%. Increased unit volume sales of both models and
services added approximately 4% to the net sales increase. Sales of our
research models and services increased due to increased general price
increases, increased market demand for our higher priced specialty units,
increased units and greater demand for services in our foreign locations. The
RMS sales increase was driven by increases in basic research and biotechnology
spending which drove greater demand for our products and services.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2004, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $266.0 million,
an increase of $80.5 million, or 43.3%, compared to $185.5 million in
2003. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of Inveresk in October 2004
and the increased customer demand in toxicology and other preclinical services.
Our preclinical services business benefited from the growth of the preclinical
market reflecting increased drug development efforts and customers outsourcing.
Foreign currency contributed less than 1% to the sales growth.

Clinical
Services.

In
the fourth quarter of 2004, we entered the Clinical Services business with the
acquisition of Inveresk. Sales from our Clinical Services segment in 2004 were
$24.3 million.

Cost of Products
Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of
products sold and services provided in 2004 was $468.4 million, an
increase of $88.3 million, or 23.2%, from $380.1 million in 2003.
Cost of products sold and services provided in 2004 was 61.1% of net sales,
compared to 61.9% in 2003 with the improvement due to greater capacity utilization
in the RMS and Preclinical Services segments. The acquired Inveresk businesses
cost of goods sold and services provided include the appropriate depreciation,
facilities cost and other costs which is a refinement of their pre-acquisition
reporting where it was reported in selling, general and administrative
expenses.


Research
Models and Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2004 was $269.9 million,
an increase of $24.0 million, or 9.8%, compared to $245.9 million in
2003. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2004 improved to 56.6% of
net sales compared to 57.4% of net sales in 2003. The decrease in cost of
products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily
due to capacity utilization and greater operating efficiencies.

Preclinical
Services.

Cost
of products sold and services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in
2004 was $179.7 million, an increase of $45.5 million, or 33.9%,
compared to $134.2 million in 2003. Cost of products sold and services
provided as a percentage of net sales was 67.6% in 2004, compared to 72.3% in
2003. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was primarily due to improved capacity utilization from
the increased sales of services.

Clinical
Services.

Cost
of product sold and services provided for the Clinical Services segment in 2004
was $18.7 million. Cost of products sold and services provided as a
percentage of net sales was 77.2%.

Selling, General
and Administrative Expenses.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses in 2004 were $121.4 million, an
increase of $31.9 million, or 35.7%, from $89.5 million in 2003.
Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2004 were 15.8% of net sales
compared to 14.6% of net sales in 2003. The increase was due primarily to the
write-off related to the closure of the Proteomics business in the fourth
quarter, the Inveresk compensation charge for options and increased
professional fees related to compliance with the internal control certification
requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and Inveresk integration costs.

Research
Models and Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2004 were $54.1 million, an
increase of $9.1 million, or 20.2%, compared to $45.0 million in
2003. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of
sales to 11.3% in 2004 from 10.5% in 2003.

Preclinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in
2004 were $38.5 million, an increase of $8.8 million, or 29.6%,
compared to $29.7 million in 2003. Selling, general and administrative
expenses in 2004 decreased to 14.5% of net sales, compared to 16.0% of net
sales in 2003.

Clinical
Services.

Selling,
general and administrative expenses for the Clinical Services segment in 2004
were $2.3 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the
Clinical Services segment were 9.5% of net sales in 2004.

Unallocated
Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated
corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including
those associated with pension, executive salaries and departments such as
corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $26.6 million in
2004, compared to $15.5 million in 2003. The substantial increase in
unallocated corporate overhead in 2004 was due to professional fees associated
with the European reorganization, increased bonuses and increased professional
fees related to compliance with internal control certification requirements of
Sarbanes-Oxley and the Inveresk merger.

Other Operating
Expenses (Income).

During 2003, we recorded a
$3.7 million charge in the Preclinical Services segment associated with
the closure of a contract manufacturing facility. Also during 2003, our French
subsidiaries settled a breach of contract claim they had asserted against a
customer. After legal and related expenses, the net settlement amounted to a
gain of approximately $2.9 million which was recorded in the RMS segment.

Amortization of
Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles
in 2004 was $16.8 million, an increase of $11.9 million, from
$4.9 million in 2003. The increased amortization is primarily due to the
acquisition of Inveresk.


Research Models and
Services.

In
2004, amortization for our RMS segment was $0.2 million, a decrease of
$0.6 million from $0.8 million in 2003.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2004, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment
was $14.1 million, an increase of $10.0 million from
$4.1 million in 2003. The increase in amortization of other intangibles
was primarily due to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Clinical
Services.

In
2004, amortization for our Clinical Services segment was $2.5 million due
to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Operating Income.

Operating
income in 2004 was $160.3 million, an increase of $21.7 million, or
15.7%, from $138.6 million in 2003. Operating income in 2004 was 20.9% of
net sales, compared to 22.6% of net sales in 2003. The decrease as a percent of
sales is due primarily to the Inveresk related amortization, the Inveresk stock
based compensation charge and the write-off associated with the closure of the
Proteomics business.

Research
Models and Services.

In
2004, operating income for our RMS segment was $152.6 million, an increase
of $16.1 million, or 11.7%, from $136.5 million in 2003. Operating
income as a percentage of net sales in 2004 was 32.0%, compared to 31.9% in
2003. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and a higher gross
margin partially offset by the prior-year gain on the settlement of a
breach of contract claim of $2.9 million or 0.7%.

Preclinical
Services.

In
2004, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was $33.6 million,
an increase of $16.1 million, or 91.9%, from $17.5 million in 2003.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 12.6%, compared to
9.4% of net sales in 2003. The increase in operating income in 2004 was
primarily due to increased customer demand, the acquisition of Inveresk and a
charge related to the write-down of certain contract manufacturing assets
in 2003, partially offset by the increased amortization expense.

Clinical
Services.

In
2004, operating income for our Clinical Services segment was $0.7 million.
Operating income as a percentage of net sales was 3.0% in 2004.

Interest Expense.

Interest
expense in 2004 was $11.8 million, compared to $8.5 million in 2003.
The $3.3 million increase was primarily due to the increased borrowing as
a result of the Inveresk acquisition.

Other Income.

Other income
for 2004 was $0.7 million compared to $0.8 in 2003. The decrease was
primarily due to less favorable foreign currency exchange rates in 2004.

Income Taxes.

Income tax
expense for 2004 was $61.2 million, an increase of $10.1 million
compared to $51.1 million in 2003. Our effective tax rate for 2004 was
40.1%. Excluding charges associated with the deferred tax write-off and the
benefit from the reversal of the valuation allowance, the effective tax rate
for 2004 was 36.2%, compared to the effective tax rate of 38.5% for 2003.

Net Income.

Net income in
2004 was $89.8 million, an increase of $9.6 million from
$80.2 million in 2003.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Fiscal 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004

The following discussion analyzes liquidity and
capital resources by operating, investing and financing activities as presented
in our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.

Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash
flow from operations and our revolving line of credit arrangements.

On December 20, 2005, we amended and restated our
then-existing $550 million credit agreement to modify certain restrictive
covenants as well as provide for a $65 million term loan facility and a $10
million revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary and a $25 million term
loan facility and a $10 million revolving facility for two U.K. subsidiaries
(the $660 million credit agreement). Our now $660 million credit agreement
originally provided for a $400 million term loan facility and a $150 million
revolving facility. The $400 million term loan facility matures in 20 equal,
quarterly installments with the last installment due September 30, 2009. The
$150 million revolving facility matures on October 15, 2009 and requires
no scheduled payment before that date. The new Canadian and U.K. term loans
(aggregate $90 million) under the $660 million credit agreement are
repayable in full by September 30, 2009 and require no scheduled
prepayment before that date. The new revolving facilities (aggregate $20
million) mature on October 15, 2009 and require no scheduled prepayment
before that date. The interest rate applicable to the Canadian and U.K. term
loans and the Canadian and U.K. revolving loans under the credit agreement is
the adjusted LIBOR rate in its relevant currency plus an interest rate margin
based upon the our leverage ratio. The interest rates applicable to term loans
and revolving loans under the credit agreement are, at our option, equal to
either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal
funds rate plus 0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin
based upon our leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio, the margin range
for LIBOR based loans is 0.75% to 1.25%. The interest rate margin was 0.875% as
of December 31, 2005. The $660 million credit agreement includes certain
customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants
and events of default. We had $5.0 million outstanding under letters of credit
as of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, we prepaid $120
million of our debt under the $400 million term loan facility, which resulted
in a $2.2 million write-off of deferred financing costs.

The Company is also party to a $50 million credit
agreement, which was entered into on July 27, 2005 and which was
subsequently amended on December 20, 2005. The $50 million credit
agreement provides for a $50 million term loan facility which matures on July 27,
2007 and can be extended for an additional 7 years. The interest rates
applicable to term loans under this credit agreement are, at the our option,
equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the
federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. The $50 million
credit agreement includes certain customary representations and warranties,
negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. Effective December 20,
2005, we amended this credit agreement to reflect substantially the same
modifications made to the covenants in the $660 
million credit agreement.

During the second quarter of 2005, we converted all of
the $185 million 3.5% senior convertible debentures due February 1, 2022
into 4,759,424 shares of common stock. We recorded additional equity of $198.0
million due to the conversion, which represented the book value of the
debentures ($185.0 million), deferred tax liability associated with the
debentures ($14.5 million) and accrued interest ($1.4 million), partially
offset by the write-off  of the deferred
financing costs ($2.8 million). We issued $175.0 million par value of these
senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering on January 24,
2002. Subsequently, we issued an additional $10,000 par value of senior
convertible debentures through the


additional purchase option
on February 11, 2002. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the
senior convertible debenture offering to retire all of its 13.5% senior
subordinated notes.

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $114.8 million
at December 31, 2005, compared to $207.6 million at December 25,
2004.

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2005 and
2004 was $237.4 million and $184.8 million, respectively. The
increase in cash provided by operations was primarily due to the acquisition of
Inveresk as well as improvements in other businesses which increased net income.
Our days sales outstanding increased to 33 days as of December 31,
2005, from 32 days as of December 25, 2004. During 2005, our pension
was a $9.4 million use of funds due to increased funding.

Net cash used in investing activities in 2005 and 2004
was $115.1 million and $600.0 million, respectively. Our capital
expenditures in 2005 were $95.5 million of which $24.6 million was
related to RMS, $70.3 million related to Preclinical Services and
$0.7 million to Clinical Services. For 2006, we project capital
expenditures to be approximately $175 - $200 million. We anticipate that
future capital expenditures will be funded by operating activities and existing
credit facilities.

Net cash provided by financing activities in 2005 was
$193.8 million and cash provided by financing activities in 2004 was $436.9 million.
During 2005, we repaid $337.5 million of our debt partially offset by
additional borrowing of $135.9 million.

Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2005 are as
follows:

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no off-balance
sheet arrangements during any of fiscal 2005, 2004 or 2003.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Shared-Based
Payment,” which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes
APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and amends
SFAS No. 95, “Statement of Cash Flows.” Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is
similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires
all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values.
This revised standard will be effective for us beginning with the first quarter
in 2006.

As permitted by SFAS No. 123,
we currently account for share-based payments to employees using APB 25
intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognizes no compensation cost
for employee stock options. Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)’s
fair value method will have an impact on our financial statements, although it
will have no impact on our overall financial position. The impact of the
modified prospective adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) cannot be estimated
at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments
granted in the future. However, had we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) in
prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact
of SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and
earnings per share.


Item 7A.

Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Certain of our financial
instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and
foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not use financial instruments
for trading or other speculative purposes.

Interest
Rate Risk

The fair value of our marketable securities is subject
to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase.
If market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points
from levels at December 31, 2005, then the fair value of the portfolio
would decline by approximately $0.2 million.

We have entered into two credit agreements, the $660
million credit agreement and the $50 million credit agreement. Our primary
interest rate exposure results from changes in LIBOR or the base rates which
are used to determine the applicable interest rates under our term loans in the
$660 million credit agreement and in the $50 million agreement and our
revolving credit facilities. Our potential loss over one year that would result
from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points
in the interest rate would be approximately $5 million on a pre-tax basis.

The book value of our debt approximates fair
value.

During the second quarter
of 2005, we converted all of its $185 million 3.5% senior convertible
debentures due February 1, 2022 into 4,759,424 shares of common stock.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our earnings and cash flows.
This risk is mitigated by the fact that various foreign operations are
principally conducted in their respective local currencies. A portion of our
foreign operations’ revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, with the costs
accounted for in their local currencies. We attempt to minimize this exposure
by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in
accordance with our overall risk management and our hedge policy. In accordance
with our hedge policy, we designate such transactions as hedges as set forth in
SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.”

During 2005, we utilized foreign exchange contracts,
principally to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on customer
transactions and certain balance sheet items. No material, foreign exchange
contracts were outstanding on December 31, 2005.


Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX


Report of Management

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

The management of
the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is
defined in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15(d)-15(f) promulgated
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under
the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers and effected by the company’s board of directors, management and other
personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting
principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

·

Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

·

Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and

·

Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot
provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because
of its inherent limitations. Internal control over financial reporting is a
process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses
in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over
financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper
management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material
misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal
control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known
features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to
design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of
the company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005. In making this assessment, the company’s management used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework.

Based on this assessment, management concluded that,
as of December 31, 2005, the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria.

Our management’s
assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent, registered public accounting
firm, as stated within their report which appears herein.


Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.:

We have completed integrated
audits of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its
subsidiaries’ December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004 consolidated
financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2005 and audits of its December 27, 2003 consolidated
financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the accompanying index, present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2005 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. In addition, in our
opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index

presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein
when read in conjunction with the related consolidated

financial
statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule
are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Internal control
over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment,
included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
appearing under Item 9A, that the Company maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of  December 31,
2005 based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based
on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2005, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management’s assessment
and on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over
financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other
procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.


A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

March 10, 2006


CHARLES
RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES
RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES
RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


CHARLES
RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description
of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) is a
leading global provider of solutions that advance the drug discovery and
development process. The Company’s fiscal year is the twelve-month period
ending the last Saturday in December.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial
statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany
accounts, transactions and profits are eliminated. Results for three majority-owned
subsidiaries are recorded on a one-month lag basis. There were no material
transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date and December 31,
2005.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements
have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
and, as such, include amounts based on informed estimates and judgments of
management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include
time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the
purchase date of three months or less.

Trade Receivables and Concentrations of Credit Risk

The Company records trade receivables net of an
allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company establishes an allowance for
doubtful accounts which it believes is adequate to cover anticipated losses on
the collection of all outstanding trade receivable balances. The adequacy of
the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information, a review of
major customer accounts, receivable balances and management’s assessment of
current economic conditions. The Company reassesses the allowance for doubtful
accounts each quarter.

The
composition of net trade receivables is as follows:

December 31,


December 25,


Customer
  receivables

$

149,225

$

155,549

Unbilled revenue

56,566

50,082

Total

205,791

205,631

Less allowance
  for doubtful accounts

(2,517

)

(3,837

)

Net trade
  receivables

$

203,274

$

201,794

Financial instruments that
potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of trade receivables from customers in the pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industries. The


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

Company
believes its exposure to credit risk to be minimal, as these industries have
experienced significant growth and the customers are predominantly well
established and viable.

Marketable Securities

The Company accounts for its investment in marketable
securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.” Investments in marketable securities consist of corporate debt
securities and government securities and obligations which are classified as
securities available for sale.

Realized gains and losses
on securities classified as available for sale are included in earnings and are
determined using the specific identification method. Unrealized holding gains
and losses, net of related tax effects, are excluded from earnings and are reported
in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of shareholders’
equity, until realized. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such
amortization and accretion is included in interest income.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost,
determined principally on the average cost method, or market. The determination
of market value involves assessment of numerous factors, including costs to
dispose of inventory and estimated selling price. Reserves are recorded to
reduce the carrying value for inventory determined damaged, obsolete or
otherwise unsaleable. Costs for large animals are accumulated in inventory
until the animals are sold.

The
composition of inventories is as follows:

December 31,


December 25,


Raw materials and
  supplies

$

11,064

$

9,393

Work in process

5,615

3,431

Finished products

48,591

49,090

Inventories

$

65,270

$

61,914

Other Current Assets

Other current assets consist of assets the Company
intends to dispose of within the next twelve months.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

The composition of other
current assets is as follows:

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, including improvements
that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are
recorded at cost, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. The
Company capitalizes interest on certain construction projects which amounted to
$810 in 2005. No interest was capitalized in 2004 and 2003. Depreciation is
calculated for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method
based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: buildings, 20 to
40 years; machinery and equipment, 2 to 20 years; furniture and
fixtures, 5 to 7 years; vehicles, 2 to 4 years; and leasehold
improvements, the shorter of estimated useful life or the lease periods.

The
composition of net property, plant and equipment is as follows:

Depreciation expense for
2005, 2004 and 2003 was $44,283, $29,514 and $24,688, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Effective at the beginning
of fiscal 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets,” which establishes financial accounting and reporting
standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. In accordance with
SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are no
longer amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separate
intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over
their estimated useful lives.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested at
least annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to
identify a potential impairment. The second step of the impairment test
measures the amount of the impairment loss. The Company completed the annual
impairment tests in 2005 and 2004 and concluded there was no impairment of
goodwill. Intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life are tested for
impairment using a one-step process which compares the fair value to the
carrying amount of the asset. The Company completed the annual impairment tests
in 2005 and 2004 and concluded there was no impairment of identifiable
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Other Assets

Other assets consist of assets that the Company does
not intend to dispose of within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other assets is as follows:

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets,” in 2002. The
Company evaluates long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An
impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash
flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal
are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, the carrying value of
long-lived assets is reduced to the estimated fair value, as determined using
an appraisal or discounted cash flows, as appropriate.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities consist of liabilities the
Company intends to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other current liabilities is as follows:

December 31,


December 25,


Accrued income
  taxes

$

35,893

$

18,027

Current deferred
  tax liability

4,953

—

Accrued interest

2,735

6,302

Other current
  liabilities

$

43,581

$

24,329


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description
of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities consist of liabilities the
Company does not intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other long-term liabilities is as follows:

December 31,


December 25,


Deferred tax
  liability

$

43,702

$

93,143

Long-term pension
  liability

52,835

63,783

Accrued Executive
  Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

17,567

16,326

Other long-term
  liabilities

15,745

16,191

Other long-term
  liabilities

$

129,849

$

189,443

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

As permitted under SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation,” the Company accounts for its stock-based
compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting
Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 44
(FIN 44), “Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation—an
interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25.” Also, the Company accounts for
variable restricted stock grants under the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 28,
“Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Options
Award Plans.” The Company recognizes compensation expenses for fixed and
variable restricted stock grants over the restriction period.

SFAS No. 123
requires the presentation of certain pro forma information as if the Company
had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value method. For
purposes of this disclosure, the fair value of the fixed option grants was
estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following weighted average assumptions used for option grants:




Risk-free
  interest rate

4.0

%

3.1

%

3.1

%

Volatility factor

35.0

%

35.0

%

51.3

%

Weighted average
  expected life (years)

5.0

5.0

6.0

The Black-Scholes option valuation model was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no
vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation
models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the
expected stock price volatility. Because the Company’s employee stock options
have characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimates, in management’s opinion, the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee
stock options. However, for each period presented, management believes the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

Black-Scholes model
is the most appropriate option valuation model. The weighted average Black-Scholes
fair value for the 2005, 2004 and 2003 grants was $17.97, $15.57 and $17.04,
respectively.

Had
compensation expense for the Company’s option grants been recognized consistent
with the provision of SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, “Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of
FASB Statement No. 123,” the Company’s net income and earnings per share
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue related to its products
and services in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,
“Revenue Recognition.”

The Company recognizes revenue related to its
products, which include research models,

in
vitro

technology and vaccine support products, when persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, generally in the form of customer purchase
orders, title and risk of loss have transferred, which occurs upon delivery of
the products, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the product
is delivered to the customer’s site. Product sales are recorded net of returns
upon delivery. For large models in some cases customers pay in advance of
delivery of the product. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue
upon delivery of the product.

The Company’s service revenue is comprised of
toxicology, pathology, laboratory, clinical Phase I trials, clinical trials
management services, transgenic and contract staffing services and is generally
evidenced by customer contracts. Toxicology services provide highly specialized
studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and
materials used in medical devices. Pathology services provide the ability to
identify and characterize pathologic changes within tissues and cells in
determining the safety of a new compound. Laboratory services monitor and
analyze health and genetics of research models used in research protocols.
Clinical Phase I conducts tolerability assessment to explore human
pharmacology. Clinical trials management provides customized program management
to coordinate and manage clinical trial programs. Transgenic services include
validating, maintaining, breeding and testing research models for biomedical
research activities. Contract staffing services provide


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

management of animal care
operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology
organizations.

The toxicology, pathology and clinical Phase I trials
services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up
to approximately 24 months in length. These agreements are negotiated for
a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a
one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic, contract
staffing services and clinical trial management are of a longer-term nature,
from six months to five years, and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified
in the contract.

The Company’s service revenues are recognized upon the
Company’s completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance
criteria are generally in the form of either study protocols or specified
activities or procedures which the Company is engaged to perform. These
performance criteria are established by the Company’s customers and do not
contain acceptance provisions which are based upon the achievement of certain
study or laboratory testing results. Revenue of agreed upon rate contracts is
recognized as services are performed, based upon rates specified in the
contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are
performed in accordance with agreed-upon study protocols.

Deferred and unbilled
revenue is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. In some cases, a
portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These
advances are deferred and recognized as revenue as services are performed.
Unbilled services are recorded for revenues recognized to date and relate to
amounts that are currently unbillable to the customer pursuant to contractual
terms. In general, amounts become billable upon the achievement of milestones
or in accordance with predetermined payment schedules.

Guarantees

The Company includes standard
indemnification provisions in its customer contracts, which include standard
provisions limiting the Company’s liability under such contracts, including the
Company’s indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company follows the
requirements of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities,” which establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts and used for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether
designed for hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a fair value
hedge, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and changes in the fair
value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in
earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective
portions of the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in
other comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of operations
when the hedged item effects earnings. The ineffective portions of both fair
value and cash flow hedges are immediately recognized as earnings.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of
the Company’s significant financial instruments, which include cash equivalents,
marketable securities, accounts receivable and accounts payable, approximate
their fair values at December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004. The
fair value of the Company’s financing instruments was $296,090 and $726,429
based on market rates at December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004,
respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for
income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income
Taxes.” The asset and liability approach underlying SFAS No. 109 requires
the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future
tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax
basis of the Company’s assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is
provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items
will expire before the Company is able to realize their benefits or that their
future deductibility is uncertain.

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currencies
of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are in local currency. In accordance with
SFAS No. 52, “Foreign Currency Translation,” the financial statements of
these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and
liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income, expenses and cash flows at
average exchange rates; and shareholders’ equity at historical exchange rates.
The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet. Exchange gains
and losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded as other income or
expense. The Company recorded  an
exchange loss of $1,015 in 2005 and exchange gains of $418 and $702 in 2004 and
2003, respectively.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for
comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, “Reporting
Comprehensive Income.” As it relates to the Company, comprehensive income is
defined as net income plus the sum of the changes in unrealized gains (losses)
on available-for-sale marketable securities, unrealized gains (losses) on
hedging activities, foreign currency translation adjustments and minimum
pension liabilities (collectively, other comprehensive income) and is presented
in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity, net of tax.

Pension Obligations

The Company recognizes
obligations associated with its defined benefit pension plans in accordance
with SFAS No. 87, “Employers Accounting for Pensions.” Assets, liabilities
and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As required by
SFAS No. 87, the Company is required to make certain assumptions to value
the plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually, or
whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on reviews of current
plan information and consultations with independent investment advisors and
actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high degree of judgment and
may materially change from period to period. The Company does not offer other
defined


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1.

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies (Continued)

benefits
associated with post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company
adopted the disclosure requirements under SFAS No. 132R, “Employers’
Disclosure about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits, an Amendment of
FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106,” as of December 25, 2004 for both
domestic and foreign defined benefit plans.

Restructuring Costs

The Company recognizes
obligations associated with restructuring activities in accordance with SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” The Company
adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 146 as of the beginning of fiscal 2003,
which generally requires a liability for costs associated with an exit or
disposal activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the
period in which the liability is incurred. The overall purpose of the Company’s
restructuring actions is to lower overall operating costs and improve
profitability by reducing excess capacities. Restructuring charges are
typically recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the
period in which the plan is approved by the Company’s senior management and,
where material, the Company’s Board of Directors, and when the liability is
incurred.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share are
calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share are calculated by adjusting
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include the number
of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive
potential common shares had been issued.

New Accounting Pronouncements

On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Shared-Based
Payment,” which is a revision of SFAS No. 123. SFAS No. 123(R) supersedes
APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and amends
SFAS No. 95, “Statement of Cash Flows.” Generally, the approach in SFAS No. 123(R) is
similar to the approach described in SFAS No. 123. However, SFAS No. 123(R) requires
all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, to be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values.
This revised standard will be effective for the Company beginning with the
first quarter in 2006.

As permitted by SFAS No. 123, the Company
currently accounts for share-based payments to employees using APB No. 25
intrinsic value method and, as such, generally recognizes no compensation cost
for employee stock options. Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)’s
fair value method will have an impact on the Company’s result of operations,
although it will have no impact on the Company’s overall financial position.
The impact of the modified prospective adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) cannot
be estimated at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based
payments granted in the future. However, had the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) in
prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact
of SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and
earnings per share.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2.   Business
Acquisitions

The Company acquired several businesses during the
three-year period ended December 31, 2005. The results of operations of
the acquired businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the
following:

On October 20, 2004, the Company’s shareholders
approved the merger agreement with Inveresk Research Group (Inveresk). The
acquisition strengthened the Company’s position as a leading global provider of
essential preclinical and clinical drug development services and products. The
strategic combination significantly expanded the Company’s service portfolio
and strengthened the Company’s global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical
research and development products and services. Under the terms of the merger
agreement, Inveresk shareholders received 0.48 shares of the Company’s common
stock and $15.15 in cash for each share of Inveresk common stock they owned.
The purchase price of $1,458,057 consisted of $841,042 representing the fair
value of the Company’s common stock of 18,451,996 shares issued, $582,391 of
cash consideration, the fair value of the Company’s stock options exchanged for
Inveresk stock options and transaction costs incurred by the Company. The
Company utilized $161,229 of available cash and $500,000 of borrowings under
its existing credit facility for the cash consideration paid to Inveresk
shareholders and to pay off Inveresk’s existing credit facility of
approximately $78,838.

The
purchase price associated with the Inveresk acquisition is as follows:

Stock
  consideration

$

841,042

Cash
  consideration

582,391

Fair value of
  stock options exchange

30,350

Transaction costs

4,274

Purchase price

1,458,057

Cash acquired

(41,726

)

Purchase price, net of
  cash acquired

$

1,416,331

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the Inveresk acquisition is as
follows:

Current assets
  (excluding cash)

$

93,895

Property, plant
  and equipment

126,602

Current
  liabilities

(194,401

)

Non-current
  liabilities

(152,374

)

Goodwill and
  other intangibles acquired

1,542,609

Total purchase price
  allocation

$

1,416,331


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2.

Business Acquisitions (Continued)

The breakout of goodwill
and other intangibles acquired with the Inveresk acquisition was as follows:

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer
  relationships

$

167,700


Backlog

63,700


Trademarks and
  trade names



Goodwill

1,310,509

—

Total goodwill and other
  intangibles

$

1,542,609

On January 8, 2004, the Company acquired River
Valley Farms, Inc. (RVF), a privately held medical device contract
research business. Consideration, including acquisition expenses, was $16,972,
net of cash acquired of $347. RVF was acquired to strengthen service offerings
of the Company’s Preclinical Services segment. This acquisition was recorded as
a purchase business combination in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, “Business Combinations.”

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the RVF acquisition is as
follows:

Current assets

$

2,135

Property, plant
  and equipment

5,987

Current
  liabilities

(2,828

)

Non-current
  liabilities

(2,315

)

Goodwill and
  other intangibles acquired

13,993

Consideration, net of
  cash acquired

$

16,972

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the RVF acquisition
was as follows:

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer
  relationships

$

3,800


Goodwill

10,193

—

Total goodwill and other
  intangibles

$

13,993

Effective January 2, 2003, the Company acquired
an additional 19% of the equity (404,321 common shares) of Charles River Japan
from Ajinomoto Company, Inc. (Ajinomoto), the minority interest partner,
which increased the Company’s ownership to 85% of the outstanding shares. The
purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or $10,841, which was
paid in cash. The Company recorded goodwill of $2,553 based on the preliminary
purchase price allocation in the first quarter of 2003. The Company reallocated
this amount to fixed assets based on an independent valuation of these fixed assets,
which was completed during the second quarter of 2003. Charles River Japan is
an extension of the Company’s Research Models


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2.

Business Acquisitions (Continued)

and Services segment.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company recorded a deferred tax
liability of $1,001 related to the purchase price allocation.

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are
presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of
the period immediately preceding the period of acquisition after giving effect
to certain adjustments including the amortization of intangibles. The pro forma
data is for informational purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the
results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods
reported. No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been
realized through the acquisitions.

Refer to Note 8 for further discussion of the
method of computation of earnings per share.

3.   Impairment and
Other Charges

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
recorded a charge of $6,511 associated with the closure of Charles River
Wisconsin (RVF) and a charge of $1,572 associated with a lease impairment at
our Clinical facility in North Carolina. Our Charles River Wisconsin facility
was included in the Preclinical Services segment. The charge for Charles River
Wisconsin was recorded as selling, general and administrative expenses included
an asset impairment charge of $2,991, an intangible impairment of $3,067,
severance of $253 and other related expenses of $200. The severance will be
settled in cash during 2006. Our North Carolina facility is included in the
Clinical segment.

During the fourth quarter of 2004, the company
recorded a charge of $2,956 associated with the closure of the Charles River
Proteomic Services, which was included in the Preclinical Services segment. The
charge included an asset impairment charge of $1,539, a lease impairment of
$989, severance of $41 and other related expenses of $389.

During the second and third quarters of 2003, the
Company recorded a total charge of $954, included in the Preclinical Services
segment, for severance to employees who were terminated as part of a cost savings
program. The Company recorded $690 of the charge to cost of services provided
and $264 to selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated
statements of income. Approximately 100 employees, mainly technicians,
technical support and administrative staff, were terminated as part of the cost
savings program. As of December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003, the
year end accrual for the remaining severance was $0 and $104, respectively.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3.   Impairment and
Other Charges (Continued)

During the first quarter
of 2003, the Company re-evaluated the marketability of certain long-lived
assets related to a biopharmaceutical production facility in Maryland, which is
included in the Preclinical Services segment, due to a significant decline in
market interest in purchasing these assets. Since the Company was unable to
locate a buyer for these assets, an impairment charge was recognized because
future undiscounted cash flows were estimated to be insufficient to recover the
related book value. The Company recorded an asset impairment charge of $3,655
for the write-down of those assets including a net write-down of leasehold
improvements of $2,195 and machinery and equipment of $1,460. The charge was recorded
as other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of income.

4.   Litigation
Settlement

On March 28, 2003,
the Company’s French subsidiaries, which are included in the Research Models
and Services segment, settled a pending breach of contract claim against a
customer. The Company’s French subsidiaries had previously been awarded damages
of approximately $4,600 by the Commercial Court of Lyon and the damages award
was stayed pending appeal by the customer at the French Supreme Court. The
final settlement of this dispute was for a gross value of approximately $3,750,
resulting in the retention by the Company’s French subsidiaries of the amount
previously deposited by the customer, pursuant to the order of the Commercial
Court of Lyon and recorded in deferred income in the consolidated balance
sheet. During 2000, the Company recognized approximately $350 of the damages
award to offset a portion of subcontractor costs incurred based on the
indemnification clause in the original customer agreement. After legal and
related expenses, the Company’s French subsidiaries recorded a net gain for the
retained settlement amount of $2,908, which was recorded in the first quarter
of 2003 as other operating income in the consolidated statements of income.

5.   Marketable
Securities

The
amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value
for marketable securities available for sale by major security type were as
follows:

December 31, 2005

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair

Value

Corporate debt
  securities

$

3,320

$


$

(29

)

$

3,305

Government
  securities and obligations

16,718


(15

)

16,713

$

20,038

$


$

(44

)

$

20,018

December 25, 2004

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair

Value

Corporate debt
  securities

$

2,071

$


$

(5

)

$

2,074

Government
  securities and obligations

2,477


—

2,505

$

4,548

$


$

(5

)

$

4,579


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5.

Marketable Securities (Continued)

Maturities of corporate
debt securities and government securities and obligations classified as
available for sale were as follows:

December 31, 2005

December 25, 2004

Amortized

Cost

Fair

Value

Amortized

Cost

Fair

Value

Due less than one
  year

$

1,687

$

1,677

$


$


Due after one
  year through five years

18,351

18,341

4,315

4,345

$

20,038

$

20,018

$

4,548

$

4,579

Marketable securities due
after one year are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

6.   Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets

The
following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to
amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization:


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6.   Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets (Continued)

The changes in the gross
carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill are as follows:

Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years is as follows:


$

44,460


31,076


25,327


20,611


16,755

7.   Long-Term Debt
and Capital Lease Obligations

Long-Term Debt

On December 20,
2005, the Company amended and restated our then-existing $550,000 credit
agreement to modify certain restrictive covenants as well as provide for a
$65,000 term loan facility and a $10,000 revolving facility for a Canadian
subsidiary and a $25,000 term loan facility and a $10,000 revolving facility
for two U.K. subsidiaries (the $660,000 credit agreement). The now $660,000
credit agreement originally provided for a $400,000 term loan facility and a
$150,000 revolving facility. The $400,000 term loan facility matures in 20 quarterly
installments with the last installment due September 30, 2009. The
$150,000 revolving facility matures on October 15, 2009 and requires no
scheduled payment before that date. The new Canadian and U.K. term loans
(aggregate $90,000) under the $660,000 credit agreement are repayable in full
by September 30, 2009 and require no scheduled prepayment before that date.
The new revolving facilities (aggregate $20,000) mature on October 15,
2009 and require no scheduled prepayment before that date. The interest rate
applicable to the Canadian and U.K. term loans and the Canadian and U.K.
revolving loans under the credit agreement is the adjusted LIBOR rate in its
relevant currency plus an interest rate margin based upon the our leverage
ratio. The interest rates applicable to term loans and revolving loans under
the credit agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the base
rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%)
or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage
ratio. Based on our leverage ratio, the margin range


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7.

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
(Continued)

for LIBOR based loans is
0.75% to 1.25%. The interest rate margin was 0.875% as of December 31,
2005. The Company has pledged the stock of certain subsidiaries as well as certain
U.S. assets as security for the $660,000 credit agreement. The $660,000 credit
agreement includes certain customary representations and warranties, negative
and affirmative covenants and events of default. The Company had $4,988
outstanding under letters of credit as of December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company prepaid
$120,000 of its debt under the $400,000 term loan facility, which resulted in a
$2,155 write-off of deferred financing costs.

On July 27, 2005 the Company entered into a
$50,000 credit agreement ($50,000 credit agreement), which was subsequently
amended on December 20, 2005. The $50,000 credit agreement provides for a
$50,000 term loan facility which matures on July 27, 2007 and can be
extended for an additional 7 years. The interest rates applicable to term loans
under the credit agreement are, at the Company’s option, equal to either the
base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus
0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. The $50,000 credit agreement includes
certain customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative
covenants and events of default. Effective December 20, 2005, the Company
amended its $50,000 credit agreement to reflect substantially the same
modifications made to the covenants in the $660,000 credit agreement. If the Company
chooses to extend the term loan for an additional 7 years, the applicable
interest rates after the extension date are equal to either the base rate
(which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%)
plus 0.25% or the LIBOR rate plus 1.25%.

During the second quarter
of 2005, the Company converted all of its $185,000 3.5% senior convertible
debentures due February 1, 2022 into 4,759,424 shares of common stock. The
Company recorded additional equity of $198,020 due to the conversion, which
represented the book value of the debentures ($185,000), deferred tax liability
associated with the debentures ($14,497) and accrued interest ($1,354),
partially offset by the write-off of the deferred financing costs ($2,831). The
Company issued $175,000 par value of these senior convertible debentures
through a private placement offering on January 24, 2002. Subsequently, the
Company issued an additional $10,000 par value of senior convertible debentures
through the additional purchase option on February 11, 2002. The Company
used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior convertible debenture
offering to retire all of its 13.5% senior subordinated notes.

On March 31, 2003, the Company entered into a
revolving credit agreement which was terminated on October 20, 2004. The
agreement permitted the Company to borrow up to $100,000 at an interest rate
based on, at the Company’s option, the greater of the Prime Rate, the Base CD
Rate plus 1% and the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.5%, or LIBOR
multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus a spread of 1.25% to 2.50% based
on the leverage ratio of the Company and the aggregate borrowing under the
revolving credit agreement. Interest was payable, ranging from monthly to semi-annually,
based on the Company’s option of interest rate selected. The credit agreement
required the Company to pay a quarterly commitment fee which ranges from 25
through 50 basis points annually on the undrawn balance, based on the leverage
of the Company. The agreement also required the Company to remain in compliance
with certain financial ratios as well as other restrictive covenants. No
amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 27,
2003.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7.

Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations
(Continued)

Long-term debt
consists of the following:

Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 30, 2005 are
as follows:

Capital Leases

The Company has one
capital lease for a building and numerous capital leases for equipment. These
leases are capitalized using interest rates considered appropriate at the
inception of each lease. Assets recorded in connection with these capital
leases are not material.

Capital lease obligations
amounted to $572 and $1,001 at December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004, respectively, with maturities through March 31, 2009 at interest
rates ranging from 4.6% to 16.5%.

8.

Shareholders’
Equity

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share
for 2005, 2004 and 2003 was computed by dividing earnings available to common
shareholders for these periods by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding in the respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable
shares. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding for  2005, 2004 and 2003 have been adjusted to
include common stock equivalents for the purpose of calculating diluted
earnings per share for these periods.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

Options to purchase
2,027,666 shares, 113,800 shares and 3,234,201 shares were outstanding at December 31,
2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003, respectively, but were
not included in computing diluted earnings per share because their inclusion
would have been anti-dilutive.

Basic weighted average
shares outstanding for 2005, 2004 and 2003 excluded the weighted average impact
of 20,000 shares of contingently issuable shares. In addition, weighted average
shares outstanding for 2005, 2004 and 2003 excluded the weighted average impact
of 544,863, 64,241 and 72,139 shares, respectively, of non-vested fixed
restricted stock awards.

The following table
illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the
computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share:

Retained Earnings

Retained earnings includes
approximately $2,000 which is restricted due to statutory requirements in the
local jurisdiction of a foreign subsidiary as of December 31, 2005 and
December 25, 2004.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.   Shareholders’
Equity (Continued)

Treasury Shares

On October 26, 2005,
the Board of Directors authorized an increase of the Company’s share repurchase
program to acquire up to a total of $100,000 of common stock. This was an
increase from the share repurchase program of $50,000 approved by the Board of
Directors on July 27, 2005. In order to facilitate these share
repurchases, the Company has entered into a Rule 10b5-1 Purchase
Plan. During 2005, the Company repurchased 396,000 shares of common stock for
approximately $17,485. The timing and amount of any future repurchases will
depend on market conditions and corporate considerations. Additionally, the
Company’s 2000 Incentive Plan permits the netting of common stock upon vesting
of restricted stock awards in order to satisfy individual tax withholding
requirements. Accordingly, during 2005, the Company acquired 10,175 shares for
$512 as a result of such withholdings.

Unearned Compensation

As more fully described in Note 11, the Company granted
restricted stock awards at no cost to officers and key employees. The Company

recorded $25,511, $1,297 and $1,062 as unearned
compensation in shareholders’ equity for the years ended December 31,
2005, December 25, 2004 and December 27, 2003, respectively. The
Company recorded $7,614, $932 and $1,101 in compensation expense for these
stock awards for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Additionally, the Company
recorded $259 and reversed $176 from unearned compensation in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, for performance based restricted stock awards.

During 2004, the Company recorded $11,344 as unearned
compensation relating to the fair value of unvested options associated with the
Inveresk acquisition. The unearned compensation will be expensed over the
original vesting period of the stock options. The Company recorded $7,804 and
$2,303 in compensation expense during 2005 and 2004, respectively.

A
summary of unearned compensation activity is as follows:




Balance at
  beginning of year

$

11,607

$

1,985

$

2,201

Grants

25,511

12,900


Cancellations

(915

)

(43

)

—

Compensation
  expense

(15,418

)

(3,235

)

(1,102

)

Balance at end of year

$

20,785

$

11,607

$

1,985


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8.

Shareholders’ Equity (Continued)

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The
composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Warrants

As part of the
recapitalization in 1999, the Company issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a
$1,000 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.6 shares of common
stock of the Company for total proceeds of $150,000. The Company allocated the
$150,000 offering proceeds between the senior subordinated notes ($147,872) and
the warrants ($2,128), based upon the estimated fair value. The portion of the
proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital in excess of par in
the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each warrant entitles the
holder, subject to certain conditions, to purchase 7.6 shares of common stock
of the Company at an exercise price of $5.19 per share of common stock, subject
to adjustment under some circumstances. Upon exercise, the holders of warrants
would be entitled to purchase 165,110 and 383,990 shares of common stock of the
Company as of December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively.
The warrants expire on October 1, 2009.

Accelerated Vesting

On December 7, 2005, the Company accelerated the
vesting of 724,000 outstanding options granted to certain employees on February 13,
2004 to purchase common stock at an exercise price $43.07. As a result of the
acceleration, the Company recorded a charge of $1,556 based on the closing
price of the Company’s stock.

As a result of the
accelerated vesting in advance of the effective date of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, “Share Based Payment,” Charles River
expects to reduce the pre-tax stock option expense it would otherwise have been
required to record.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.   Income Taxes

An
analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests
and earnings from equity investments and the related provision for income taxes
is presented below:

Net deferred taxes,
detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the
amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes and
such amounts measured in accordance with tax laws.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.

Income
Taxes (Continued)

Reconciliations of the
statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as follows:

During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
repatriated $148,027 of its accumulated foreign earnings in a distribution that
qualified under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“AJCA”). The
distribution was primarily from the pre-acquisition foreign earnings of Inveresk.
The Company provided for income taxes on substantially all of Inveresk’s
unremitted foreign earnings at the time of the Inveresk acquisition based on
the tax rates in effect at date of the acquisition. As a result, the Company recorded
a tax benefit of $24,060 from the impact of the change in tax law on the
$148,027 distribution. As part of its plan of distribution, the Company
restructured its UK operations in order to distribute the funds in the most tax
efficient manner and incurred a non-cash charge of $23,110 related to an
increase in the deferred tax liability on the remaining undistributed earnings
of Inveresk.  In addition, the Company
incurred an additional tax of $1,883 on the write-off of deferred tax assets.

Also during the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company
changed its assertion with respect to the remaining unremitted pre-acquisition
earnings of Inveresk in order to fund the expansion of the Company’s
preclinical facilities and an increased UK pension funding requirement. These
earnings and the earnings distributed under the AJCA were previously not
considered permanently reinvested. The Company recorded a non-cash benefit from
the change in assertion of $29,204.

As of December 31, 2005, earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $147,882. No
provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of
those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be
subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign
countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that
might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

During the second quarter of 2005, the Company realized
a tax benefit of $14,497 when it converted all of its $185,000 3.5% senior
convertible debentures.  Also in 2005,
the Company also recorded a reduction to income taxes payable for $7,600 from
the exercise of stock options. The benefit from both of these items has been
recorded to additional paid in capital.

The change in valuation allowance in 2005 primarily
relates to the expiration of a state net operating loss carryforward and the
reversal of $2,684 on acquired foreign net operating losses. The reversal of
the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9.

Income Taxes (Continued)

$2,684 was recorded to
goodwill. As of December 31, 2005, the company has provided a valuation
allowance of $6,416 of which approximately $5,738 will result in a reduction to
goodwill upon the reversal. The Company has recognized the balance of deferred
tax assets on the belief that it is more likely than not they will be realized.
This belief is based on all available evidence including historical operating
results, projections of taxable income and tax planning strategies.

As of December 31, 2005, the Company has total
U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $9,075 which will begin
to expire in 2024. Non-U.S. net operating losses at December 31, 2005 were
$36,741 which may be carried forward indefinitely. Additionally, the Company
has U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of $13,280 which will begin to expire
in 2009.  The Company has Canadian
Investment Tax Credit Carryforwards of $9,262 as a result of its research and
development activity in Montreal, which begin to expire in 2013.

During 2004, the Company reorganized its European
operations. The purpose of the reorganization was to streamline the legal
entity structure in order to improve operating efficiency and cash management,
facilitate acquisitions and provide tax benefits. The reorganization, which did
not involve reductions of personnel or facility closures, resulted in a
one-time, non-cash charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2004 of $7,900 due
primarily to the write-off of a deferred tax asset. In conjunction with the
restructuring of its European operations, the Company recorded a tax benefit of
$2,111 on the reduction of a valuation allowance on its foreign tax credits.

In connection with the
1999 recapitalization transaction, the Company elected under Internal Revenue
Code Section 338(h)(10) to treat the transaction as a purchase
resulting in a step-up in the tax basis of the underlying assets. The
election resulted in the recording of a deferred tax asset in 1999, net of
valuation allowance, of approximately $99,506 for the estimated future tax
benefits associated with the increased tax basis of the assets. For financial
reporting purposes, the benefit was treated as a contribution to capital in
1999. As of December 31, 2005, the net deferred tax asset pertaining to
the election under section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code
was $53,718. The Company expects to realize the net benefit of the deferred tax
asset over a 15 year period from the date of the 1999 recapitalization
transaction through annual tax deductions which are expected to reduce future
tax payments. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may
challenge the availability of the Section 338(h)(10) election to the
Company as a result of the Company’s reorganization in connection with the
initial public offering in 2000. If the IRS were successful, the expected
future tax benefits from the election would not be available and the Company
would be required to write off the related deferred tax assets by recording a
non-recurring expense in the results of operations in an amount equal to
such deferred tax assets. The Company believes that the reorganization and
liquidating distribution should not have any impact upon the election for
federal income tax purposes. However, the IRS may reach a different conclusion.

10.   Employee
Benefits

401(k) Employee Savings Plan

The Company’s defined
contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan,
qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. It
covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby the
Company matches a percentage of employee contributions. The costs


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee Benefits (Continued)

associated
with the defined contribution plan totaled $3,316, $2,986 and $2,225, in 2005,
2004, and 2003, respectively.

Pension Plans

The Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan
(Pension Plan), is a qualified, non-contributory plan that covers certain U.S.
employees. Benefits are based on participants’ final average monthly
compensation and years of service. Participants’ rights vest upon completion of
five years of service. Effective January 1, 2002, the plan was amended to
exclude new participants from joining the plan. Benefit criteria offered to
existing participants as of the amendment date did not change.

Under another defined benefit plan, the Company
provides some executives with supplemental retirement benefits. This plan, the
Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan (ESLIRP), is unfunded and
non-qualified under the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Securities
Act of 1974. The Company has, however, obtained several key-person life
insurance policies with the intention of using their cash surrender value to
fund the ESLIRP. At December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, the cash
surrender value of these policies was $7,423 and $7,391, respectively.

The Charles River Japan and Charles River Canada
defined benefit pension plans are non-contributory plans that cover
substantially all employees of those respective companies. Benefits are based
upon length of service and final salary.

In connection with the Inveresk acquisition on October 20,
2004, the Company assumed a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit
pension plan covering certain employees. Contributions under the defined
contribution plan are determined as a percentage of gross salary. The Company
assumed a combined benefit obligation of $125,552 and combined plan assets of
$62,908. The assumed benefit obligation was adjusted in 2005 to properly
reflect the benefit obligation at the acquisition date. The defined
contribution plan was amended subsequent to the acquisition to change the
benefit structure for future service in the plan by increasing the normal
retirement age and limiting increases in pensionable pay. The amendment reduced
the benefit obligation by $15,802 as of December 25, 2004.

The following table
provides reconciliations of the changes in benefit obligations, fair value of
plan assets and funded status of the defined benefit plans.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee Benefits (Continued)

Obligations and Funded Status

The accumulated benefit
obligation for all defined benefit plans was $177,130 and $161,273 at December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee Benefits (Continued)

Information for defined benefit plans with an
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit
  obligation

$134,043

$

121,916

19,439

$

16,303

Accumulated
  benefit obligation

132,271

120,165

17,479

16,240

Fair value of plan
  assets

98,396

68,259

—

—

Components
of net periodic benefit cost

Additional information

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Increase
  (decrease) in minimum liability included in other comprehensive income, net
  of tax

—

$

(4

)

$


$

(1,471

)

Assumptions

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine benefit obligations

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits





Discount rate

4.93

%

5.49

%

5.65

%

5.75

%

Rate of compensation
  increase

3.32

%

4.36

%

4.75

%

4.75

%


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee
Benefits (Continued)

Weighted-average
assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Discount rate

5.28

%

5.59

%

5.73

%

5.75

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

Expected long
  term return on plan assets

7.28

%

7.63

%

8.36

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation
  increase

3.32

%

4.36

%

4.58

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

The expected long term
rate of return on plan assets was made considering the pension plan’s asset
mix, historical returns and expected yields on plan assets.

Plan Assets

The
Company’s pension plan weighted-average asset allocations by asset
category are as follows:

The Company’s investment objective is to obtain the
highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk. Fund
performances are compared to benchmarks including the S&P 500 Index,
Russell 1000 Index, Russell 3000 Index and Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond
Index. The Company’s Investment Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review
plan assets.

The Company’s plan assets
did not include any of the Company’s common stock at December 31, 2005 and
December 25, 2004.

Cash Flows

Contributions

During 2005, the Company
contributed $15,930 to its pension plans which included additional funding of
$10,936 for our U.K. pension plan. The Company expects to contribute $7,646 to
its pension plans in 2006.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10.

Employee Benefits (Continued)

Estimated Future
Benefit Payments

The
following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as
appropriate, are expected to be paid:

11.   Stock Compensation Plans

The 1999 Management Incentive Plan (1999 Plan) is
administered by the Company’s Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
The 1999 Plan has a total of 1,784,384 shares authorized, of which 4,317 shares
are available for grant as of December 31, 2005. Awards of 15,100, 0 and
23,000 non-qualified stock options were granted under the 1999 Plan in 2005,
2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, options to purchase
367,672 shares were exercisable under the 1999 Plan. Options granted pursuant
to the 1999 Plan are subject to a vesting schedule based on three distinct
measures. Certain options vest solely with the passage of time (incrementally
typically over three years so long as the optionee continues to be employed by
the Company). The remainder of the options vest over time but contain clauses
providing for the acceleration of vesting upon the achievement of certain
performance targets or the occurrence of certain liquidity events. All options
currently granted expire on or before February 17, 2015. The exercise
price of all options granted under the 1999 Plan is the fair market value of
the underlying common stock at the time of the grant.

Effective June 5, 2000, the Board of Directors
adopted and the Company’s shareholders approved the 2000 Incentive Plan (2000
Plan), which provides for the grant of incentive and nonqualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted common stock and
other equity awards. The 2000 Plan has a total of 9,889,000 shares authorized,
of which 3,484,544 are available for grant as of December 31, 2005.
Options granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan vest incrementally, typically over
three years, so long as the employee continues to be employed by the Company.
All options granted under the 2000 Plan expire on or before December 1,
2015. The exercise price of all options currently granted under the 2000 Plan
is the fair value of the underlying common stock at the time of grant. A total
of 1,686,168, 1,441,300 and 1,478,200 stock option awards were made under the
2000 Plan in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, of which 3,036,456 awards were
exercisable as of December 31, 2005.

Under the Company’s 2000 Plan, shares of restricted
common stock of the Company may be granted at no cost to officers and key
employees. Recipients are entitled to cash dividends and to vote their
respective shares. Restrictions limit the sale or transfer of these shares
until they vest, which is typically over a three-year period. Upon issuance of
restricted stock awards under the plan, unearned compensation equivalent to the
market value at the measurement date is charged to shareholders’ equity and


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11.

Stock Compensation Plans (Continued)

subsequently amortized as
compensation expense over the vesting period. The Company granted 535,555,
24,700 and 32,300 restricted stock awards at no cost. Additionally, the Company
issued 30,000 performance-based restricted stock awards at no cost to the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer and President during 2002. Vesting of these
awards is contingent upon the achievement of certain annual earnings per share
growth targets over the vesting period. These shares are accounted for as
variable awards and the related unearned compensation and compensation expense
are adjusted based on the closing market price of the Company’s common stock
until the shares are vested. The Company recorded $259 and reversed $176 from
unearned compensation in 2004 and 2003, respectively, for performance based
restricted stock awards. As a result of the merger with Inveresk, the earnings
per share target was not obtained, therefore, during 2004 the Company reversed
$537 of previously recorded compensation expense. During 2003, the Company
recorded $251 in compensation expense in connection with these awards. The
weighted average fair value of all restricted stock awards issued during 2005,
2004 and 2003 was $47.63, $43.54 and $32.87, respectively. As of December 31,
2005, a total of 564,863 restricted stock awards were outstanding.

In connection with the Inveresk acquisition, the
Company assumed Inveresk’s stock compensation plans. Stock options of 1,439,882
and 50,000 were assumed from the Inveresk Research Group, Inc. 2002 Stock
Option Plan (Inveresk Stock Option Plan) and the Inveresk Research Group, Inc.
2002 Non-employee Directors Stock Option Plan (Inveresk Director Plan),
respectively. Stock options under the Inveresk Stock Option Plan, which
provides options to employees of Inveresk, vest in equal installments over the
three years following the date of grant. At December 31, 2005, options to
purchase 282,410 shares were exercisable under the plan. Stock options under
the Inveresk Directors Plan, which provides options to non-executive directors
of Inveresk, vest three years following the date of grant. At December 31,
2005, there were no options to purchase shares exercisable under the plan.

In 2004, the Company’s Board of Directors initiated a
new performance-based management incentive program (Mid-Term Incentive (MTI)
Program), as a carve-out from the shareholder approved 2000 Plan. The MTI
Program provides that up to a maximum of 218,000 performance units may be
granted to senior executives and certain other key employees of the Company
based on achieving financial performance targets for 2006. The MTI Program
units, which equal the value of one share of Company stock, will be paid out to
participating employees in the form of cash and restricted stock. For a
participant to be eligible to receive payment for 2004 MTI units, the employee
must remain employed with the Company until at least the beginning of 2007. The
restricted stock, which requires continued employment beyond 2007, vests over
the ensuing two-year period.

The Company will accrue compensation expense for the
MTI Program obligations over the period the participating employees are
required to be employed by the Company. The Company recorded $(109) and $1,154
as compensation expense in 2005 and 2004, respectively, of which $(55) and $581
was recorded as capital in excess of par value and $(54) and $573 was recorded
as accrued compensation. The accrual for the MTI Program is marked to market on
a quarterly basis. Accordingly, changes in the market value of Company stock
could materially affect this compensation expense. In February 2005, the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors determined that it would not
make any future awards under the MTI Program.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11.

Stock Compensation Plans (Continued)

In conjunction with the 2000 Plan, the Board of
Directors adopted, and the Company’s shareholders approved, the 2000 Directors
Stock Plan (Directors Plan), which in the past provided for the grant of both
automatic and discretionary nonstatutory stock options to non-employee
directors. The Company currently intends to award stock options to non-employee
directors through the 2000 Plan. On the day of each annual meeting of
shareholders, each independent director who served during the prior year will
be awarded an option to purchase shares of our common stock (pro-rated if the
director did not serve for the entire preceding year). The Directors Plan has a
total of 100,000 shares authorized, of which 10,000 shares are available to be
granted as of December 31, 2005. Awards of 4,000 stock options were
granted under the Directors Plan in 2005. No stock options were awarded under this
plan during 2004 and 2003. There are 26,000 options exercisable under the
Directors Plan as of December 31, 2005. Options granted pursuant to the
Directors Plan generally vest on the first anniversary of the date of grant.
All options granted expire on or before February 17, 2015. The exercise
price of the options granted under the Directors Plan is the fair market value
of the underlying common stock at the time of grant.

The
following table summarizes stock option activities under the 1999 Plan, the 2000
Plan, and the Directors Plan:


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11.

Stock Compensation Plans (Continued)

12.   Joint Ventures

The Company holds
investments in several joint ventures including Charles River Mexico and
Charles River Japan. These joint ventures are separate legal entities whose purpose
is consistent with the overall operations of the Company and represent
geographic and business segment expansions of existing markets. The financial
results of all joint ventures were consolidated in the Company’s results as the
Company has the ability to exercise control over these entities. The interests
of the outside joint venture partners in these joint ventures have been
recorded as minority interests totaling $9,718 and $9,792 at December 31,
2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively.

13.   Commitments and Contingencies

Operating Leases

The
Company has commitments for various operating leases for machinery and
equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. Rent expense for
all operating leases was $19,542, $10,663 and $12,057 in 2005, 2004, and 2003,
respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under
noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or
more, consist of the following at December 31, 2005:


$

19,545


18,300


14,827


11,588


8,290

Thereafter

$

12,821

Insurance

The Company maintains
insurance for workers’ compensation, various liability lines and employee
medical with per claim loss limits up to $500. Aggregate loss limits for
workers compensation, auto liability


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

13.

Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)

and
general liability is projected at $4,450. Related accruals were $5,447 and
$6,156 on December 31, 2005 and December 25, 2004, respectively.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims
and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending
against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome of such
proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.

14.   Related Party Transactions

Ajinomoto Company, Inc. (Ajinomoto) is a minority
shareholder in Charles River Japan. Charles River Japan conducts certain
business transactions with Ajinomoto, including the purchase of information
technology systems and services, engineering services, product delivery
services and the reimbursement of employee compensation. Charles River Japan
incurred expenses related to these services of $4,639, $6,053 and $4,584 during
2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As of December 31, 2005 and December 25,
2004, Charles River Japan had amounts due to Ajinomoto totaling $1,427 and
$3,766, respectively. In addition, Charles River Japan sold products to
Ajinomoto totaling $736, $1,090 and $1,011 during 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

During 2004, the Company
closed its joint venture company Charles River Proteomics. Proteome
Systems, Ltd. (Proteome) was a minority shareholder in Charles River
Proteomics. During 2002, Charles River Proteomics purchased a hardware platform
from Proteome, of which $113 was paid in 2003. During 2003, Charles River
Proteomics paid Proteome $190 for training on the hardware platform, borrowed
$100 against a working capital loan from Proteome and purchased laboratory
supplies from Proteome. Charles River Proteomics incurred expenses related to
the laboratory supplies of $39 and $17 during 2004 and 2003, respectively.

15.   Business Segment and Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, “Disclosures
About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” the Company discloses
financial and descriptive information about its reportable operating segments.
Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate
financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing
performance.

The Company reports three segments, called Research
Models and Services (RMS), Preclinical Services and Clinical Services.

RMS includes the Company’s research model business,
research model services, vaccine support services and in vitro technology
services. Preclinical Services includes development services which enable
customers to accelerate their drug discovery and development process. These
services are FDA compliant services that aid customers in drug safety
assessment and biologicals safety testing. Clinical Services includes services
consisting of designing, monitoring and managing trials of new pharmaceutical,
biostatistical, product registration and pharmacovigilance services.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

15.

Business Segment and Geographic Information
(Continued)

The following table
presents sales and other financial information by business segment. Net sales
represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in either provision
of Research Models and Services, Preclinical Services or Clinical Services.
Long lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other
intangibles and other long lived assets.

A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is
as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 31,


December 25,


December 27,


Total segment
  operating income

$

224,355

$

186,909

$

154,039

Unallocated
  corporate overhead

(43,336

)

(26,586

)

(15,486

)

Consolidated operating
  income

$

181,019

$

160,323

$

138,553


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

15.

Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

A summary of unallocated
corporate overhead consists of the following:

Other general unallocated corporate expenses consist
of various costs including those associated with senior executive salaries and
departments such as corporate accounting, legal and investor relations.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by geographic
regions. Included in the other non-U.S. category below are the Company’s
operations located in Australia, Canada, China, and Mexico. Sales to unaffiliated
customers represent net sales originating in entities physically located in the
identified geographic area. Long-lived assets include property, plant and
equipment, goodwill, other intangibles, and other long-lived assets.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE II—VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(dollars
in thousands)

Income
Tax Valuation Allowance

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts


CHARLES RIVER
LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly
Segment Information (Unaudited)


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly
Segment Information (Unaudited)


Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on their
evaluation, required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15,
promulgated by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 , the Company’s principal
executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act are effective as of December 31,
2005 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures
include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files
or submits under the Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s
management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers,
or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls
and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable assurances of achieving the desired control objectives, and
management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in designing and
evaluating the controls and procedures. We continually are in the process of
further reviewing and documenting our disclosure controls and procedures, and
our internal control over financial reporting, and accordingly may from time to
time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that our
systems evolve with our business.

(b)

Changes
in Internal Controls

There were no changes in the Company’s internal controls
over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required
by paragraph (d) of the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15
that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2005 that materially
affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting.

Management’s report on our
internal controls over financial reporting can be found in Item 8 of this
report. The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm’s attestation report
on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting can also be found in Item 8 of this report.

Item 9B.

Other
Information

None.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors
and Executive Officers of the Registrant

A.

Directors
and Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The information required by this Item regarding the
directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Exchange Act by the Company’s officers and directors will be included in the
2006 Proxy Statement under the section captioned “Management” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.


B.

Executive
Officers of the Company

The information required by this Item regarding the
executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I of this Form 10-K
under the heading “Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant
pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.”

C.

Audit
Committee Financial Expert

The information required by this Item regarding the
audit committee of the Board of Directors and financial experts will be
included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the section captioned “Audit
Committee Financial Expert” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

D.

Code
of Ethics

The Company has adopted a
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of its employees and
directors, including the principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar
functions. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our
website at

http://ir.criver.com

. The Company will
provide to any person, without charge, a copy of its Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics by requesting a copy from the Secretary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc.,
251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887.

Item 11.

Executive
Compensation

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the sections
captioned “Compensation of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and “Report of
Compensation Committee” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 12.

Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the sections
captioned “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and “Equity
Compensation Plan Information” and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
See also Item 5. “Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder
Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Securities Authorized for
Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans” for the disclosure required by Item
201(d) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 13.

Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the section
captioned “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and is incorporated
herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.

Principal
Accountant Fees and Services

The information required
by this Item will be included in the 2006 Proxy Statement under the section
captioned “Statement of Fees Paid to Independent Accountants” and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
and Financial Statement Schedules

Item 15(a)(1) and
(2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules

See “Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Financial Statements Schedules” at Item 8 to this Form 10-K.
Other financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not
applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and
Item 15(c) Exhibits

The exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
are listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits. The
Company has identified in the Exhibit Index each management contract and
compensation plan filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
in response to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By:

/s/ THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Date: March 10,

Thomas F. Ackerman Corporate Executive Vice
  President and

Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated below and on the dates indicated.


EXHIBIT INDEX


*

Filed
herewith.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

(1)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1
(File No. 333-35524), as amended, filed June 23, 2000.

(2)

Previously filed as an exhibit
to the Registration Statement of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc.,
predecessor in interest to the Company, on Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524)
filed April 25, 2000.

(3)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5,
2001.

(4)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 27,
2001.

(5)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed
on October 20, 2004.

(6)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 1,
2004.

(7)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 9,
2005.

(8)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  December 13, 2005

(9)

Previously filed as an
exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  December 22, 2005.

(10)

Previously filed as an exhibit
to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on  February 14, 2006.

92