10-K


a2130185z10-k.htm

FORM 10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 27, 2003

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD
FROM                        TO

Commission File No. 333-92383

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

06-1397316

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

251 Ballardvale Street

Wilmington, Massachusetts

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):

(978) 658-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). Yes

ý

No

o

On June 28, 2003, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately
$1,453,176,300.

As
of March 3, 2004, there were outstanding 46,074,943 shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 12, 2004 (the 2004 Proxy
Statement), which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 27, 2003, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of the portions of the 2004 Proxy Statement expressly incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference, such document shall
not be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


Item

Page

PART I


Business



Properties



Legal Proceedings



Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K


PART II


Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters



Selected Consolidated Financial Data



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


9A

Controls and Procedures


PART III


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Executive Compensation



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions



Principal Accounting Fees and Services


PART IV


Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


PART I

Item 1. Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Form 10-K), contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. (Charles River) that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Charles River operates and the
beliefs and assumptions of the management of Charles River. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "target," "goal," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," and similar expressions
are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not
limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled "Risks Related to Our Business and Industry." Charles River undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any
forward-looking statements for any reason.

Corporate History

Charles River has been in business since 1947 and has undergone several business structure changes over the years. Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we completed our initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. Our stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "CRL" and is included in the Standard &
Poor's S&P MidCap 400 Index. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale St., Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone number at that location
is (978) 658-6000. Our Internet site is www.criver.com. Unless otherwise specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, material contained on our Internet site is not
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to "Charles River," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This
Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), are available free of charge through the investor relations section of our
Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an
Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading provider of critical research tools and integrated support services that enable innovative and efficient drug and medical device discovery and
development. We are the global leader in providing the animal research models required in research and development for new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in this business for more than
55 years. Since 1992, we have built upon our research model technologies to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of products and services. Our wide array of tools and services enables our
customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug and medical device discovery and development. Our customer base includes major pharmaceutical
companies, biotechnology companies, as well as many government agencies, leading hospitals and academic institutions throughout the world. We currently operate numerous facilities in 16 countries
worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our


global
infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life sciences research, a large and growing market. In 2003, our net sales were
$613.7 million and our operating income was $138.6 million.

During
the later part of 2003, we expanded our

in vitro

market opportunity with our new, portable version of our highly successful
endotoxin testing platform called Endosafe®-PTS, which allows endotoxin testing in the field, affording researchers accurate and timely results. In January 2004, we
further expanded our capabilities with the acquisition of River Valley Farms (RVF), a medical device contract research business located near Minneapolis, Minnesota. We have combined RVF with our
existing contract surgical research services group, which has been providing pre-clinical medical device testing services for the past three years, to
form a new unit called Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS). We expect the acquisition of RVF to significantly improve our ability to meet our customers' needs in this area

During
the fourth quarter of 2003, we changed our business segments to better strategically align related business units and to focus sales force and management responsibilities. As a
result, some of our operating units are now presented within a business segment that is different from that previously reported in our SEC reports. We are continuing to report two business segments,
now called Research Models and Services (RMS) and Development and Safety Testing (DST). We believe that the new business segments will better reflect our results of operations and facilitate
understanding of the Company's business. The changes in segment presentation have no effect on our consolidated revenues or net income. Prior year segment information included in this Form 10-K
has been restated to reflect this change.

Research Models and Services (RMS)

We are the global leader in the production and sale of research models, principally genetically and virally defined purpose-bred rats and mice, and have been
supplying research models since 1947. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our customers in screening drug candidates. RMS accounted for 66% of total net sales in
2003.

Research Models.

A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and sale of animal research
models, principally purpose-bred rats, mice and other rodents for use by researchers. Our research models include genetically defined models and models with compromised immune systems, which are
increasingly in demand as early-stage research tools. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies typically require the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates and many
medical devices to be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process. Our research
models are bred and maintained in a biosecure environment designed to ensure that the animals are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other contaminants that can disrupt research
operations and distort results. With our biosecure production capabilities we are able to consistently deliver high quality research models worldwide. We also provide larger animal models, including
rabbits and primates, to the research community, principally for use in their drug development and testing studies.

Our
research models include:

•

outbred
animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

•

inbred
animals, which are genetically identical;

•

other
genetically-modified research models;

•

knock-out
models with one or more disabled genes;

•

hybrid
animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;


•

spontaneous
mutant animals, which contain a naturally-occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and

•

transgenic
animals, which contain genetic material transferred from a different species.

We
offer one of the largest selections of small animal models and provide our customers with high-volume and high-quality production. Our rats, mice and other rodent species such as
guinea pigs and hamsters have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality in the
breeding process. We provide our small animal models to numerous customers around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, major biotechnology companies, many government agencies, leading
hospital and academic institutions. In 2001, we acquired new and proprietary, disease-specific rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity, cardiovascular disease and
kidney disease.

We
believe that over the next several years, many new research models will be developed and used in biomedical research, such as transgenic models with modified genetic material,
knock-out models with one or more disabled genes, and transgenic models that incorporate or exclude a particular mouse, rat or human gene. These more highly-defined and characterized models will allow
researchers to further focus their investigations into disease conditions and potential new therapies or interventions. We
intend to build upon our position as the leader in this field to expand our presence in this market for higher-value research models.

We
have a strategic partnership with The Jackson Laboratory, an internationally renowned research institution that, in addition to research functions, develops unique mouse models for
use in medical research, drug discovery and development work. Through this partnership, we produce and distribute The Jackson Laboratory's research models in Europe and Asia. The partnership combines
The Jackson Laboratory's strength in genetic science with our global production and distribution capabilities. We view this relationship as an important step toward broadening the scope of our
research models business.

RMS
also offers services such as health monitoring, medical and genetic profiling, surgery, genetic transplantation and specialty services dictated by our customers. Our services are
designed to assist our customers in screening drug candidates faster by providing a variety of services related to genetically-defined research models for in-house research and by implementing
efficacy screening protocols to improve the customer's drug evaluation process. These services, initiated in 1995, address the growing need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to
outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business. We currently offer
four major categories of research models services: transgenic services, laboratory services, contract staffing and vaccine support.

Transgenic Services.

In this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining, improving, breeding
and testing research models purchased or created by them for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a transgenic model can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first step in
the discovery process. Productive utilization of research models requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide transgenic breeding expertise, model characterization and colony
development, genetic characterization, phenotyping, quarantine, embryo cryopreservation, embryo transfer and health and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to nearly 200 laboratories around
the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities. We maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally occurring or experimentally manipulated research
models for our customers. We expect that the demand for our services will grow as the use of genetically modified research models continues to grow within the research community. In order to meet the
growing demand for these services, we are adding capacity in Europe and Japan in 2004, and we expect to begin construction of another substantial facility at our Massachusetts headquarters in early
2005.


Laboratory Services.

We assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the research models used
in their research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model business. Depending
upon a customer's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities. We believe that the continued growth in
development and utilization of specific disease models and genetically engineered models,
such as transgenic models, will drive our future growth as the reference laboratory of choice for genetic testing of special models.

Contract Staffing.

Building upon our core capability as a leading provider of high-quality research models, we manage animal
care operations on behalf of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial customers in the biotechnology and related sectors. Demand for our services reflects the growing necessity of
these large institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not critical to the core scientific innovation process. In addition, we believe that our expertise in managing the
laboratory animal environment enhances the productivity and quality of our customers' research facilities. This area leads to additional opportunities for us to provide other products and services to
our customers. Site management does not typically require us to make any incremental investment, thereby generating a favorable return on deployed assets.

Vaccine Support.

We are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF, chickens and fertile chicken
eggs. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained "bioreactors" for the manufacturing of live and dead viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material in poultry and
human vaccine applications. The production of SPF eggs is done under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence that includes several SPF
egg production facilities in the United States, as well as facilities in Germany and Australia, and a joint venture in Mexico. We also operate a specialized avian laboratory in the United States,
which provides in-house testing and support services to our customers.

Development and Safety Testing (DST)

Discovery represents the earliest stages of research and development in the life sciences, directed to the identification and selection of a lead compound for
future drug development. Discovery is followed by development activities, which are directed at demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the selected drug candidates. Discovery and development
represent most of the pre-clinical activities in drug development. The development services portion of our DST business segment enables our customers to outsource their non-core drug development
activities to us. These activities are typically required for support of the regulatory filings necessary to obtain FDA approval. The demand for these services is driven by the trend to outsource
certain pre-clinical drug discovery and development activities.

We
have focused significant resources on building a diverse portfolio of development and safety testing products and services. Our DST business represented 34% of our total net sales in
2003. We currently offer DST services in seven main areas: general and specialty toxicology, pathology services, interventional surgical services, biosafety testing, pharmacokinetic and metabolic
analysis, bioanalytical chemistry and

in vitro

technology.

General and Specialty Toxicology.

Our team of scientists, including toxicologists, pathologists, and regulatory specialists,
designs and performs general and highly-specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. We are an industry leader in the
fields of reproductive and developmental toxicology, photobiology and other specialty toxicological assessments.


Pathology Services.

In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize pathologic changes within
tissues and cells is critical in determining the safety of a new compound. We employ highly-trained pathologists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify pathology within tissues and cells, as
well as at the molecular level. Frequently, decisions regarding continued product development are dependent on these pathology findings.

Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS).

Many sophisticated drugs are designed to be administered directly to a precise
location within the body using surgical, or "invasive," techniques. The development of these and certain other drugs requires the use of surgical techniques to administer a drug, or to observe its
effects in various tissues. Our ISS group offers extensive capabilities in this area, and has collaborated with world-renowned experts in the fields of cardiology, inflammation, and pathology at
leading academic institutions. Our ISS unit also provides a wide variety of medical device testing services from prototype feasibility testing to long-term GLP, or good laboratory practices, studies,
primarily in large research models. The FDA requires companies introducing medical devices to test the biocompatibility of any new materials that have not previously been approved for contact with
human tissue. Our services include cardiovascular surgery, biomaterial reactivity studies, orthopedic studies and related laboratory services. We maintain state-of-the-art surgical suites where our
skilled professional staff implement custom surgery protocols provided by our customers. In January 2004, we acquired RVF, a medical device contract research business located near Minneapolis,
Minnesota. We expect the acquisition of RVF to significantly improve our business in this area.

Biosafety Testing.

We provide specialized non-clinical quality control testing that is frequently outsourced by both
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These services allow our customers to determine if the human protein drug candidates, or the process for manufacturing those products, are essentially free
of residual biological materials. The bulk of this testing work is required by the FDA for obtaining new drug approval, maintaining an FDA-licensed manufacturing facility or releasing approved
products for use in patients. Our scientific staff consults with customers in the areas of process development, validation, manufacturing scale-up and biological testing.

Pharmacokinetic and Metabolic Analysis.

Our scientists conduct metabolic studies to reveal how drugs are broken down and
excreted, and the duration that drugs or their byproducts remain in various organs, tissues and the circulatory systems in multiple species. In addition, we have extensive capabilities and resources
which can be directed towards assessing, both

in vivo

and

in vitro,

the pharmacokinetic compounds in
lead optimization studies. These studies can be performed as part of the drug screening
process to help discover and nominate lead compounds, as well as later in the development process to provide information regarding safety and efficacy.

Bioanalytical Chemistry.

Our bioanalytical chemistry services support all phases of drug discovery and development from lead
optimization through non-clinical studies and clinical trials. For lead optimization support, our researchers apply proven high throughput methodologies to rapidly screen compounds to evaluate
pharmacokinetic properties. In supporting non-clinical and clinical development studies, our researchers develop and validate assays in full regulatory compliance to support these efforts. We also
provide, through a joint venture, leading-edge proteomics testing and analysis services on a fee-for-service contract basis to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.

In Vitro Technology.

Our DST business also provides non-animal, or

in vitro,

methods for testing the safety of drugs and medical devices. We are strategically committed to being the leader in providing our customers with

in vitro

alternatives as these methods become scientifically validated and commercially feasible. Our

in vitro

technology business produces and distributes test
kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for medical devices and other products worldwide. We are a market leader in
endotoxin testing, which is used for quality control testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes under which they are manufactured, for the presence of
endotoxins.


Quality
control testing for endotoxin contamination by our customers is an FDA requirement for injectable drugs and medical devices. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the blood of the
horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and only major FDA-validated

in vitro

alternative to an animal model
test for endotoxin detection in pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing. The process of extracting blood is generally not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural
ocean environment. In 2003, we expanded our

in vitro

market opportunity with a new, portable version of our highly successful endotoxin testing
platform. The Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS) allows endotoxin testing in the field, affording researchers accurate and timely results. We continue to explore
opportunities in non-traditional markets for water and surface monitoring such as food and beverage, hospitals and pharmaceuticals.

Competitive Strengths

Our products and services are critical to both traditional pharmaceutical research and the growing fields of genomics, proteomics, recombinant protein and
humanized antibody research. We believe we are well positioned to compete effectively in all of these markets as a result of a diverse set of competitive strengths, which include:

Critical Products and Services.

We provide critical, proven and enabling products and services that
our customers rely on to advance their early-stage research efforts and accelerate product development. We offer a wide array of complementary research tools and discovery and development services
that differentiate us from our competition and have created a sustained competitive advantage in many of our markets.

Long-Standing Reputation for Scientific Excellence.

We have earned our long-standing reputation for
scientific excellence by consistently delivering high-quality research models supported by exceptional technical service and support for over 55 years. As a result, the Charles River brand name
is synonymous with premium quality products and services and scientific excellence in the biomedical research industry. We have nearly 250 science professionals on staff with D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s and
M.D.s, in areas including laboratory animal medicine, molecular biology, pathology, immunology, toxicology and pharmacology.

Extensive Global Infrastructure and Customer Relationships.

Our operations are globally integrated
throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Our extensive investment in worldwide infrastructure allows us to standardize our products and services across borders when required by our multinational
customers, while also offering a customized local presence when needed. We currently operate numerous facilities in 16 countries worldwide, serving a global customer base.

Biosecurity Technology Expertise.

In our research models business, our commitment to and expert
knowledge of biosecurity technology distinguishes us from our competition. We maintain rigorous biosecurity standards in all of our facilities to maintain the health profile and consistency of our
research models. These qualities are crucial to the integrity and timeliness of our customers' research.

Platform Acquisition Capabilities.

We have a proven track record of successfully identifying,
acquiring, and developing complementary businesses. With this experience, we have developed internal expertise in sourcing acquisitions.

Experienced and Incentivized Management Team.

Most of our senior management team has an average of
nearly 20 years of service with our company. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, James C. Foster, has been with us for 27 years. As of December 27, 2003, our management team
owned, or had options to acquire, securities representing approximately 3.0% of our equity on a fully-diluted basis.


Our Strategy

Our business is driven by the continued growth of research and development spending by pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device companies, the federal
government and academic institutions. As the pressure to develop new drugs increases for these industries, so does the pressure to contain costs, implement research in multiple countries
simultaneously and identify, hire and retain a breadth of experienced experts. These trends create opportunities for companies such as ours that can help speed the drug discovery and development
process. Our strategy is to meet these needs by continuing to build upon our core research models business and to actively invest in new opportunities and become a full service, pre-clinical
outsourcing provider to the drug discovery and development industry.

We
intend to continue to broaden the scope of our products and services. Primarily through acquisitions and alliances, we have improved our ability to offer new services that complement
our existing drug discovery and development businesses. Over the past decade, we have completed 22 acquisitions and alliances that have contributed to our financial results. Several of our operations
began as platform acquisitions, which we were able to grow by developing and marketing the acquired products or services to our extensive global customer base. We intend to further pursue strategic
platform acquisitions to drive our long-term growth. We believe our approach to acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to focus on businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the
prospect of enhancing stockholder value. This strategy may include geographic expansion of an existing core service, strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new product or
service.

We
also intend to continue to expand our pre-clinical outsourcing services. Many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers outsource a wide variety of research activities that
are critical to their scientific innovation process. We believe the trend of outsourcing pre-clinical or early-stage research will continue to increase. We are well positioned to exploit both existing
and new outsourcing opportunities, principally through our discovery and development services offerings. We believe our early successes in the transgenic services area have increased customer demand
for outsourcing and have created significant opportunities. We intend to focus our marketing efforts on stimulating demand for further outsourcing of pre-clinical research to gain market share. We
also intend to expand our opportunities by continuing to increase our international presence.

Customers

Our customers consist primarily of large pharmaceutical companies, as well as biotechnology, animal health, medical device and diagnostic companies and hospitals,
academic institutions, and government agencies and other life sciences companies. We have many long-term, stable relationships with our customers.

During
2003, in both our RMS and DST businesses, more than three-quarters of our sales were to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the balance was to hospitals, universities
and government agencies. No single commercial customer accounted for more than 5% of our total net sales in 2003 and our top 20 customers accounted for 32% of total net sales.

For
information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to each of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please review Note 16 included in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.


For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations in the United States, Japan, France and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years,
please review Note 16 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force, the majority of whom work in the United States, with the balance working in Europe
and Japan. The direct sales force is supplemented by a network of international distributors for our products businesses. In late 2003, we re-aligned our U.S. sales force to provide each business
segment with its own dedicated sales team.

Our
internal marketing groups support the field sales staff while developing and implementing programs to create close working relationships with customers in the biomedical research
industry. We believe our Internet site, www.criver.com, is an effective marketing tool, and has become recognized as a valuable resource in the laboratory animal field by a broad spectrum of industry
leaders.

We
maintain both customer service and technical assistance departments, which service our customers' routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist our customers in solving
problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, study design, regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is recognized as a valuable
customer resource.

Research and Development

We do not maintain a fully-dedicated research and development staff and therefore, have not had any significant research and development costs in any of the past
three fiscal years. Our approach to developing new products or services is to extend our base technologies into new applications and fields, and in some instances to license or acquire technologies to
serve as platforms for the development of new businesses that service our existing customer base. Our research and development focus is principally on developing projects that improve our productivity
or processes.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare

Among the shared values of our employees is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements in our
industry, and continue to demonstrate our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical area of our business.

We
support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund internships in
laboratory animal medicine, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in
the laboratory animal medicine field. One of our businesses dedicates a portion of its net sales, through a royalty, to support similar programs and initiatives.

Employees

As of December 27, 2003, we had approximately 4,500 employees, including nearly 250 science professionals with advanced degrees including D.V.M.s, Ph.D.s
and M.D.s. Our employees are not unionized in the United States, although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local custom for our industry. Our annual
satisfaction surveys indicate that we have a good relationship with our employees.


Backlog

Backlog usually includes work to be performed under signed agreements. Once work under a signed agreement begins, net sales are recognized over the life of the
project. We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for any of our business units for a variety of reasons including: almost all of our contracts are terminable
by the client on short notice; the scope of studies frequently changes, which may either increase or decrease their value; and studies may be reduced in scope or delayed at any time by the client or
regulatory authorities. Therefore, management does not believe that backlog information is material to an understanding of our business.

Competition

Our strategy is to become a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. Our competitors are generally different in each of our business and geographic
areas.

In
our RMS segment our main competitors include three smaller competitors in North America, several smaller ones in Europe, and two smaller ones in Japan. Of our main United States
competitors, two are privately-held businesses and the third is a government-funded, not-for-profit institution. We believe that none of our competitors in RMS has our comparable global reach,
financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings and pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

We
have many competitors in our DST segment, a few of which are larger than we are and may have greater capital, technical or other resources than we do, however, many are smaller and
more regionalized.

We
compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality, reputation and availability, supported by our international presence with strategically located facilities.

Regulatory Matters

The Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the treatment of particular species intended for use in research. The AWA imposes a wide variety of specific regulations on
producers and users of these species, most notably cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and environmental enrichment methods. We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set
by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for handling regulated species, including breeding, research use, maintenance and transportation. However, rats, mice and chickens are not
regulated under the AWA. Congress recently adopted legislation which permanently excludes these species from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States small animal research
model activities and our vaccine support services operations are not subject to regulation under the AWA. Our animal production facilities in the United States are accredited by The Association for
Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a highly regarded member association which maintains standards that often exceed those of the USDA.

Portions
of our DST are also generally regulated by the USDA, and in the case of our endotoxin detection systems, the FDA. Our manufacture of test kits and reagents for endotoxin testing
is subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and are subject to inspection on
a routine basis for compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulations and Good Manufacturing Practices.
These regulations require that we manufacture our products and maintain our documents in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and control activities.

Corporate Governance

We are committed to operating our business with integrity and accountability. We complied with all of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) corporate governance
standards prior to their approval by


the
SEC. Seven of our eight Board members are independent and have no financial, personal or significant business ties to the Company or management, and all of our Board committees, other than the
Executive Committee, are composed of independent directors. The Board adopted corporate governance guidelines and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which has been communicated to employees and
posted on our website. We have always been diligent in complying with generally accepted accounting principles and are committed to providing financial information that is transparent, timely and
accurate. We have established a process through which employees, either directly or anonymously, can notify us (and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors) of alleged accounting and auditing
concerns or violations including fraud. We have created an internal disclosure committee that meets regularly and adopted disclosure procedures and guidelines to help ensure that our public
disclosures are accurate and timely.

Industry and Market Data

In this Form 10-K, we rely on and refer to information and statistics regarding the research models and development services industries, and our market
share in the markets in which we compete. We obtained this information and statistics from various third-party sources, none of which should be considered definitive, discussions with our customers
and/or our own internal estimates. We believe that these sources and estimates are reliable, but we have not independently verified them.

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally.

A significant part of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S.
subsidiaries, represented 30.8% of our total net sales in 2003, 27.4% in 2002 and 27.3% in 2001. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our
revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including:

•

foreign
currencies we receive for sales outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue that we
recognize;

•

general
economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

•

potential
increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;

•

potential
trade restrictions and exchange controls;

•

difficulties
and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations;

•

unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements;

•

the
difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

•

longer
accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

•

import
and export licensing requirements.

Our
operations and financial results could be significantly affected by the above mentioned risks. For example, because both sales and costs at our foreign businesses are conducted in
the local currency, we are subject to exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar in the reported results of our foreign operations. These fluctuations may decrease our
earnings. We


currently
do not hedge against the risk of exchange rate fluctuations because both sales and costs at our foreign businesses are maintained in local currency. The economic situation in some of the
foreign countries in which we operate may result in slower payments of outstanding receivable balances. Our financial results could be adversely affected by weakness in the economies and currencies in
these regions.

A reduction in research and development budgets may adversely affect our business.

Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent upon the
ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on research and development at rates close to or at historical levels and to outsource the products and
services we provide. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services.
Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our
business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic
institutions, government laboratories or private foundations.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business.

A substantial portion of net sales in our RMS segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially
dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Although the level of
government research funding has increased substantially during the past several years, we believe this increase may not continue at historic rates in the short term. Government funding of research and
development is subject to the political process, which is inherently unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases
as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations
to the NIH and other government agencies that fund research and development activities. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our
business and our financial results. Our customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the U.S. federal government. In the past, grants have
been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions
by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results.

The outsourcing trend in the pre-clinical and non-clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our growth.

Some areas of our discovery and development services business have grown significantly as a result of the increase over the past several years in pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies outsourcing their pre-clinical and non-clinical research support activities. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the next several years, a
substantial decrease in pre-clinical and non-clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our expected higher-growth areas.


Our customer contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract for services or multiple contracts for services
could adversely affect our sales and profitability.

Generally, our agreements with our customers provide that the customer can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services under the agreements with
little or no notice. Customers may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including: unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the
drug being tested; the customer's decision to forego or terminate a particular study; or the loss of funding for the particular research study. If a customer terminates a contract with us, we are
entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, penalties. Primarily in our DST segment, cancellation of a large contract
or simultaneous cancellation of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect that segment's business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results.

If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past three years, we have expanded our business through several acquisitions. We plan to continue to grow our business through acquisitions of
businesses and technologies and the formation of alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. Even if completed, acquisitions and
alliances involve numerous risks which may include:

•

difficulties
and expenses incurred in assimilating operations, services, products or technologies;

•

difficulties
in developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;

•

the
potential loss of key employees of an acquired business and difficulties in attracting new employees to grow businesses; and

•

difficulties
in achieving business and financial success.

In
the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to successfully
integrate acquisitions into our existing business or successfully exploit new business or technologies.

Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of contaminants such as viruses and bacteria because the presence of contaminants can distort or
compromise the quality of research results. Contaminations in our isolated breeding rooms or poultry houses could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production, harm our
reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Contaminations
typically require cleaning up the contaminated room or poultry house. This clean-up results in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result
of lost customer orders and credits for prior shipments. These contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. We have made significant
capital expenditures designed to strengthen our biosecurity and have significantly improved our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, however, contaminations may still occur.


New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and
services.

For many years, groups within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the
use of living animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Companies have developed several techniques that have scientific merit, especially in the area of cosmetics and household product
testing, markets in which we do not market our products or services. Only a few alternative test methods in the discovery and development of effective and safe treatments for human and animal disease
conditions have been validated and successfully deployed. The principal validated non-animal test system is the LAL, or endotoxin detection system, a technology which we acquired and have aggressively
marketed as an alternative to testing in animals. It is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method as it becomes validated as a research model alternative or adjunct
in our markets. However, these methods may not be available to us or we may not be successful in commercializing these methods. Even if we are successful, sales or profits from these methods may not
offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative research methods could decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a
timely manner to replace any lost sales.

We face significant competition in our business, and if we are unable to respond to competition in our business, our revenues may decrease.

We face significant competition from different competitors in each of our business units. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater
capital, technical or other resources than we do. We generally compete on the basis of quality, reputation and availability of service. Expansion by our competitors into other areas in which we
operate, new entrants into our markets or changes in our competitors' strategies could adversely affect our competitive position. Any erosion of our competitive position may decrease our revenues or
limit our growth.

Threat of future terrorist activity or related U.S. military action may have a negative impact on the economy and our business.

The current political and business turmoil in many parts of the world, including the threat of future terrorist attacks on the U.S. and other parts of the world
and related U.S. military action, continues to put severe pressure on global economic conditions and the U.S. economy. Such pressure may have a negative effect on research and development outsourcing
and spending, which would adversely impact our business.

Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business.

Our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not historically been the subject of animal rights media attention. However, we have
experienced protests by animal right activists, which included threats against our facilities and employees, overseas. Future negative attention or threats against our facilities or employees could
adversely affect our business.

One of our large animal operations is dependent on a single source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.

We depend on an international source of supply for one of our large animal operations. Disruptions to their continued supply may arise from colony fertility and
health problems, export or import restrictions or embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions or contract disputes or disruptions. Any disruption of supply could
harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary source on comparable commercial terms.


Tax benefits we expect to be available in the future may be subject to challenge.

In connection with our 1999 recapitalization, our then current shareholders, CRL Acquisition LLC (CRL Acquisition) and Bausch & Lomb Incorporated (B&L),
made a joint election intended to permit us to increase the depreciable and amortizable tax basis in our assets for federal income tax purposes,
thereby providing us with expected future tax benefits. In connection with our initial public offering in 2000, CRL Acquisition reorganized, terminated its existence as a corporation for tax purposes
and distributed a substantial portion of its stock to its members. We believe that the reorganization and liquidating distribution should not have any impact on the election for federal income tax
purposes. However, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may contend that this reorganization and liquidating distribution should be integrated with our original recapitalization. If
the IRS were to be successful with this contention, the expected future tax benefits at the time of the recapitalization would not be available and we would be required to write off the related
deferred tax asset.

We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief
Executive Officer since 1992, has held various positions with us for 27 years and is our Chairman. We have no employment agreement with Mr. Foster, nor with any other executive officer.
If Mr. Foster or other members of management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.

Because
of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have an excellent record of
employee retention, there is still strong competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified
personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel
in a timely manner, could harm our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors as the number and scope of ongoing customer
engagements, the commencement, postponement, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in the quarter, changes in the mix of our products and services, the extent of cost overruns, holiday
patterns of our customers, budget cycles of our customers, and exchange rate fluctuations. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of
future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Item 2. Properties

The following charts provide summary information on our properties. The first chart lists the sites we own and the second chart lists the sites we lease. Most of
our leases expire between 2004 and 2006. None of these leases are material to our business operations and many have an option to renew. We believe that we will be able to successfully renew expiring
leases on terms satisfactory to us.


Sites—Owned

Country

No. of

Sites

Total

Square Feet

Principal Functions

Business

Segment

Belgium


23,284

Office, Production

RMS

Canada


74,069

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

China


19,372

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

France


663,600

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

—

2,500

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

Germany


154,184

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

—


Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

Mexico


88,582

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

Italy


43,390

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

Japan


116,340

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

Ireland


102,319

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

United Kingdom


56,000

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS


2.240

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

United States


936,369

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS


198,378

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

Total


2,480,927

Sites—Leased

Country

No. of

Sites

Total

Square Feet

Principal Functions

Business

Segment

Australia


13,570

Office, Production

RMS

Hungary


11,550

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

Japan


77,121

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS

Netherlands


3,681

Office

RMS

Spain


3,228

Office

RMS

Sweden


8,073

Sales Office

RMS

United States


87,256

Office, Production, Laboratory

RMS


510,390

Office, Production, Laboratory

DST

Total


714,869

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that is not material to our business or
financial condition.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations for the last five years of each our current executive officers. All such persons have been elected to serve
until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.


Thomas F. Ackerman,

age 49, joined us in 1988 with over eleven years of combined public accounting and international finance experience.
He was named Controller, North America in 1992 and became our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In 1999, he was named a Senior Vice President. He is currently responsible for
overseeing our Accounting and Finance Department, as well as our Information Technology Group. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman was an accountant at Arthur Andersen & Co.
Mr. Ackerman received a B.A. in Accounting from the University of Massachusetts and is a certified public accountant.

Christophe Berthoux,

age 42, joined us in 1991 as Sales and Marketing Director in France and became General Manager of our French
operations in 1997. Mr. Berthoux became Vice President of our European operations in 1999, assuming our Southern Europe operations including Italy, Spain, France and Belgium. In 2002,
Mr. Berthoux was promoted to Corporate Vice President and, in addition to his European duties, assumed responsibility for Transgenic Services and Laboratory and Research Services worldwide.
Mr. Berthoux received a D.V.M. degree from Lyon Veterinary School and an Executive M.B.A. from Purdue University's Krannert Graduate School of Management.

James C. Foster,

age 53, joined us in 1976 as General Counsel. Over the past 27 years, Mr. Foster has held various staff and
managerial positions, and was named our President in 1991, Chief Executive Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000. Mr. Foster received a B.A. from Lake Forest College, a M.S. from the Sloan
School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a J.D. from Boston University School of Law.

Jörg M. Geller

, age 49, joined us in 1986 as a production manager in our animal production facility in Germany and has had
various management positions since then. In 1994, Mr. Geller became Vice President, Charles River Europe, responsible for our activities in Germany and Northern and Eastern Europe. In 1997,
Mr. Geller assumed responsibility for our avian production unit (SPAFAS). Mr. Geller graduated from the veterinary school in Giessen and received his Ph.D. from the University of
Hanover. He attended the Advanced Executive Program at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University.

Nancy Gillett

, age 48, joined us in 1999 with the acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett has 19 years of experience
as an ACVP board certified pathologist and scientific manager. In 1999, she became Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Sierra Biomedical division with responsibilities for Sierra's
ongoing business operations. In 2002, Dr. Gillett became interim Corporate Vice President of Discovery and Development Services and President and General Manager of Sierra Biomedical,
overseeing operations for our Argus Laboratories, PAI, Redfield Laboratories, Springborn Laboratories and Worcester Laboratories divisions. In 2003, Dr. Gillett became Corporate Vice President
and General Manager of Drug Discovery and Development. Dr. Gillett received her D.V.M from Washington State University and her Ph.D. from the University of California, Davis.

David P. Johst

, age 42, joined us in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1995. He became Vice
President, Human Resources and Administration in 1996, and a Senior Vice President in 1999. He is responsible for overseeing our Human Resources department, our contract staffing business unit and
several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Johst was a corporate associate at Boston's Hale and Dorr. Mr. Johst is a graduate of Dartmouth College,
holds an M.B.A. from Northeastern University and received his J.D. from Harvard University Law School.

Real H. Renaud

, age 56, joined us in 1964 and has 40 years of research models production and related management experience. In
1986, Mr. Renaud became Vice President of Production, with responsibility for overseeing the Company's North American small animal operations, and was named Vice President, Worldwide Production
in 1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice President and General Manager, European and North American Animal Operations in 1996, following a two-year European assignment during which he provided direct
oversight to our European operations. In 1999, he became


a
Senior Vice President and in 2002, Mr. Renaud became Executive Vice President and General Manager, Worldwide Research Model Products and Services. Mr. Renaud attended Columbia
University's executive education program.

Dennis R. Shaughnessy

, age 46, joined us in 1988 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Business Affairs in 1991. He became
Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel in 1994 and is responsible for overseeing the Company's business development initiatives on a worldwide basis, as well as handling the
Company's overall legal affairs. He became a Senior Vice President in 1999. Mr. Shaughnessy also serves as our Corporate Secretary. Prior to joining us, Mr. Shaughnessy was a corporate
associate at Boston's Testa, Hurwitz & Thibeault and previously served in government policy positions. Mr. Shaughnessy has a B.A. from Pennsylvania State University, an M.S. from The
University of Michigan, an M.B.A. from Northeastern University, and a J.D. from The University of Maryland School of Law.

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on June 23, 2000 under the symbol "CRL." The following table sets forth for the
periods indicated below closing prices for our common stock, as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape.


High

Low

First quarter (through March 3, 2004)

$

44.84

$

33.77


High

Low

First quarter

$

33.48

$

25.45

Second quarter

33.99

24.75

Third quarter

37.16

30.90

Fourth quarter

35.01

30.25


High

Low

First quarter

$

32.49

$

27.90

Second quarter

38.89

27.80

Third quarter

39.60

29.90

Fourth quarter

40.98

36.55

Shareholders

As of March 3, 2004, there were approximately 145 registered shareholders of the outstanding shares of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past three years, except to our former parent companies, and we do not intend
to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. Some of the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving
credit agreement limit our ability to pay dividends.


Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The following table summarizes, as of December 27, 2003, the number of options issued under the Company's stock option plans and the number of options
available for future issuance under these plans.

Plan Category

Number of securities to be

issued upon exercise of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding options,

warrants and rights

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuanceunder

equity compensation

plans (excluding securities

reflected in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plan approved by security holders:

2000 Incentive Plan

3,492,290

$

31.40

2,494,583

1999 Management Incentive Plan

938,702

$

6.93

12,417

2000 Directors Stock Plan

96,000

$

21.94

4,000

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

NA

NA

NA

Total

4,526,992

$

26.13

2,511,000


Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data

The following table presents our selected consolidated financial data and other data as of and for the fiscal years ended December 27, 2003,
December 28, 2002, December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000, and December 25, 1999. The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 27,
2003, December 28, 2002, and December 29, 2001 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002 have been derived from the audited consolidated
financial statements for such years, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Statement of Income Data and Other Data for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2000 and
December 25, 1999 and the Balance Sheet Data at December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and December 25, 1999 have been derived from the audited consolidated financial
statements for such years not included in this Form 10-K. You should read the selected consolidated financial data contained in this table in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.

Fiscal Year(1)






(dollars in thousands)

Statement of Income Data:

Net sales

$

613,723

$

554,629

$

465,630

$

306,585

$

231,413

Cost of products sold and services provided

380,058

345,646

298,379

186,654

146,729

Selling, general and administrative expenses

89,489

83,303

68,315

51,204

39,765

Other operating expenses, net


—

—

—

—

Amortization of goodwill and intangibles

4,876

3,414

8,653

3,666

1,956

Operating income

138,553

122,266

90,283

65,061

42,963

Interest income

1,774

2,120

1,493

1,644


Interest expense

(8,480

)

(11,205

)

(22,797

)

(40,691

)

(12,789

)

Loss on debt retirement

—

(29,882

)

(8,066

)

(44,771

)

—

Other, net


1,222



(47

)

Income (loss) before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

132,630

84,521

61,413

(18,686

)

30,663

Provision for (benefit from) income taxes

51,063

31,921

24,272

(7,833

)

15,561

Income (loss) before minority interests and earnings from equity investments

81,567

52,600

37,141

(10,853

)

15,102

Minority interests

(1,416

)

(2,784

)

(2,206

)

(1,396

)

(22

)

Earnings from equity investments

—



1,025

2,044

Net income (loss)

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

$

(11,224

)

$

17,124

Earnings (loss) per common share:

Basic

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.86

$

(0.40

)

$

0.86

Diluted

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.80

$

(0.35

)

$

0.86

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

$

29,564

$

23,986

$

27,175

$

16,766

$

12,318

Capital expenditures

32,704

37,543

36,406

15,565

12,951

Balance Sheet Data (at end of period):

Cash and cash equivalents

$

182,331

$

122,509

$

58,271

$

33,129

$

15,010

Working capital

256,537

164,723

111,622

55,417

27,574

Total assets

799,554

701,344

571,362

413,545

359,292

Total debt

186,002

195,818

156,800

202,912

386,044

Total shareholders' equity (deficit)

464,623

357,376

289,510

119,864

(109,946

)

(1)

Our
fiscal year consists of 12 months ending on the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes.

Overview

We are a leading provider of critical research tools and integrated support services that enable innovative and efficient drug discovery and development. We are
the global leader in providing the animal research models required in research and development for new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in business for more than 55 years.

We
believe our financial performance in 2003 demonstrated continued strength in our global business operations. Despite difficult market conditions, we delivered solid revenue growth,
improved operating margins, strong profitability and excellent cash flow. Total net sales in 2003 were $613.7 million, an increase of 10.7% over the same period last year. Favorable foreign
currency translation contributed approximately 3.5% to our net sales gain. Our acquisitions of Springborn and BioLabs in 2002 along with the consolidation of our Mexican joint venture contributed 4.1%
to our net sales increase over last year. Our gross margin increased to 38.1% of net sales, compared to 37.7% of net sales for 2002.
Operating income increased 13.3% to $138.6 million in 2003 from $122.3 million in 2002 and the operating margin increased to 22.6% compared to 22.0% for 2002. Net income was
$80.2 million in 2003 compared to $50.1 million in 2002. Diluted earnings per share for 2003 was $1.64 compared to $1.06 in 2002. The 2003 results include a net charge of
$0.8 million resulting from an asset impairment charge related to the closure of our biopharmaceutical production facility partially offset by a litigation settlement in our favor related to
our French subsidiaries. The 2002 results included a charge of $29.9 million for the early retirement of debt.

Our
products and services are marketed throughout the world. Our international revenues, which consists of revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, represented 30.8% of our total net
sales in 2003, 27.4% in 2002 and 27.3% in 2001. The increase in international revenues during 2003 was principally due to the strong Euro and Yen. We expect that international revenues will continue
to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future.

During
the fourth quarter of 2003, we revised our consolidated financial reporting segments to better reflect the manner in which our operating units are managed. We believe the revision
was appropriate because in 2003 a number of changes were made to align related businesses, to focus sales force responsibilities and to simplify management structure. We will continue to report two
segments, now called Research Models & Services (RMS) and Development & Safety Testing (DST). The research models business will continue to be reported in the RMS segment and transgenic
services, laboratory services, contract staffing services and vaccine support products and services will now be reported in the RMS segment. The Company will report development services, including
general and specialty toxicology, pathology services, interventional and surgical services, biosafety testing and

in vitro

technology in the DST
segment. The changes in segment presentation have no effect on our consolidated revenues or net income. Management believes that the new business segments will better reflect results of operations and
facilitate investors' understanding of our business. Segment information for the prior years has been restated to reflect this change.

Our
RMS business segment represented 66.0% of net sales in 2003. Net sales for this segment increased 14.5% over the same period in 2002. Favorable foreign currency translation,
increased pricing and higher sales of inbred models, immunocompromised models and increased sales for our services that support research models contributed to the net sales gain in 2003. Operating
income increased to 31.2% of net sales in 2003, compared to 29.0% of net sales for the same period in 2002 primarily due to improved capacity utilization. In North America and Europe, RMS reported
slower sales in the late summer of 2003, reflecting greater seasonality than we had experienced in 2002. However, RMS sales


in
the fourth quarter of 2003 exceeded our expectations, which enabled this segment to record strong growth for the year. We believe this was due to an improving biotechnology funding environment in
the closing months of 2003, which allowed these companies to intensify their efforts to bring drug candidates to market. We also experienced increased spending by large pharmaceutical companies on
research models towards the later part of 2003, as they increased their emphasis on development spending to get drug candidates through the clinic and to market as patents began to expire on many
older drugs. We also saw a continuing investment in basic research by the government and academic sectors, where substantial early research is done. Spending on research models in the not-for-profit
sector also increased at the end of 2003.

Our
DST segment represented 34.0% of net sales in 2003. Sales for this segment increased 3.9% over the same period in 2002. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed
approximately 1.3% of the net sales gain. The acquisitions of BioLabs and Springborn in 2002 contributed 8.9% to the net sales growth in 2003. This segment's growth rate was affected by the closure of
our contract manufacturing facility in 2003, which reduced the segment growth rate by approximately 3.2%. The DST operating margin for 2003 was 13.3%, compared to 17.0% in 2002, but improved
sequentially from a low of 1.9% in the first quarter to a high of 19.3% in the fourth quarter of 2003. This segment reported solid sales in the fourth quarter of 2003 as spending by pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies improved during the later part of 2003. Our development services group recovered from the slower demand for toxicology services that we experienced during late 2002 and early
2003. We believe there is still some excess capacity in certain segments of the market for outsourced development services and some price sensitivity, but customer demand has increased from the low
point we experienced in the first quarter of 2003. We added capacity in two of our facilities in 2003, and based on projected demand, we expect to add both general and specialty toxicology capacity to
accommodate market growth in 2005 and beyond. This segment also reported solid sales in the fourth quarter of 2003 as spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies improved over the course of
2003. For the fourth quarter of 2003, the DST segment operating margin increased from 16.0% in the fourth quarter of 2002 to 19.3% primarily due to higher sales and cost savings we implemented in the
second quarter of 2003. In January 2004, we acquired River Valley Farms (RVF), a privately-held medical device contract research business located near Minneapolis, Minnesota, one of the major
medical device and cardiovascular research hubs in the world. We have combined RVF with our existing non-clinical medical device testing business to form a new operating unit called
Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS). We expect this new unit to continue to grow faster than the overall market for outsourced services.

Continued
research and development spending by pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and research institutions, and funding of research by government agencies is critical to
our continued success. A substantial portion of our net sales is derived from customers at academic and research
laboratories who are partially dependent on funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. We also derive
revenue directly from government agencies. Our customers also include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow is also dependent upon these industries
continuing to spend on research and development at rates close to or at historical levels, and their willingness to outsource the products and services we provide. While we believe that research and
development spending will continue in 2004 to be at least consistent with the increases of the past few years, our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences
research and development expenditures by the biopharmaceutical industry, academic institutions and government agencies.

The
following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of our reportable segments for the past three years. They also show cost of products sold and services provided,
selling,


general
and administrative expenses, amortization and operating income by segment and as percentages of their respective segment net sales.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


(dollars in millions)

Net sales:

Research models and services

$

405.1

$

353.9

$

277.4

Development and safety testing

208.6

200.7

188.3

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

$

238.3

$

212.2

$

168.7

Development and safety testing

141.8

133.4

129.7

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

$

42.6

$

38.1

$

36.4

Development and safety testing

31.4

30.6

24.7

Unallocated corporate overhead

15.5

14.5

7.2

Amortization of goodwill and intangibles:

Research models and services

$

0.8

$

0.8

$

0.7

Development and safety testing

4.1

2.6

7.9

Operating income:

Research models and services

$

126.4

$

102.7

$

71.6

Development and safety testing

27.7

34.1

25.9

Unallocated corporate overhead

(15.5

)

(14.5

)

(7.2

)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


(as a percent of net sales)

Net sales:

Research models and services

66.0

%

63.8

%

59.6

%

Development and safety testing

34.0

%

36.2

%

40.4

%

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

58.8

%

60.0

%

60.8

%

Development and safety testing

68.0

%

66.5

%

68.9

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

10.5

%

10.8

%

13.1

%

Development and safety testing

15.0

%

15.3

%

13.1

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

2.5

%

2.6

%

1.6

%

Amortization of goodwill and intangibles:

Research models and services

0.2

%

0.2

%

0.3

%

Development and safety testing

2.0

%

1.3

%

4.2

%

Operating income:

Research models and services

31.2

%

29.0

%

25.8

%

Development and safety testing

13.3

%

17.0

%

13.8

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

(2.5

)%

(2.6

)%

(1.6

)%


In
our consolidated statements of income, we provide a breakdown of net sales and cost of sales between net products and services. Such information is reported irrespective of the
business segment from which the sales were generated.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of net sales for the periods shown:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Net sales

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of products sold and services provided

61.9

%

62.3

%

64.1

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses

14.6

%

15.0

%

14.7

%

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles

0.8

%

0.6

%

1.9

%

Interest income

0.3

%

0.4

%

0.3

%

Interest expense

1.4

%

2.0

%

4.9

%

Loss on debt retirement

—

5.4

%

1.7

%

Provision for income taxes

8.3

%

5.8

%

5.2

%

Minority interests

0.2

%

0.5

%

0.5

%

Earnings from equity investments

—

0.1

%

0.1

%

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The
preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and use assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Some of those estimates can be subjective and complex, consequently actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, there may also be other
estimates or assumptions that are reasonable. However, we believe that given the current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such alternative judgments would materially impact
the accompanying financial statements. Management believes the following critical accounting policies are most effected by significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements. The following summary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We
believe our most critical accounting policies and estimates include the following:

•

Goodwill
and other intangible assets

•

Revenue
recognition

•

Pension
plan accounting

•

Income
taxes and deferred tax assets

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.

As a result of businesses we have acquired, we have material
intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable finite and indefinite-lived acquired


intangibles.
The identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition, as well as the completion of annual impairment
tests, require significant management judgments and estimates. These estimates are made based on, among others, consultations with an accredited independent valuation consultant, reviews of projected
future income and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, and
potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations. Furthermore, changes in business strategy and/or market conditions may significantly impact these judgments thereby impacting the
fair value of these assets, which could materially impact our results of operations. We performed annual impairment tests in 2003 and concluded the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset
balances were not impaired.

Revenue Recognition.

We recognize revenue on product and services sales. Recognition of service
revenue is primarily based on the completion of agreed-upon service procedures including rate specified contracts and fixed fee contracts. Revenue of agreed-upon rate contracts is recognized as
services are performed, based on rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are performed in accordance with procedures specified by the customers in the
form of study protocols. The recognition of service revenue requires management judgments primarily relating to the determination of the level of service procedures performed during the period. As of
December 27, 2003, we had recorded unbilled revenue of $15.9 million and deferred revenue of $30.8 million in the consolidated balance sheet based on the difference between the
estimated level of services performed and the billing arrangements within our service contracts.

Pension Plan Accounting.

We have significant plan assets, liabilities and expenses based on
information provided by independent actuaries. The actuaries use assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to employees and allocate this cost to the service periods. The actuarial
assumptions used to calculate pension costs are determined and reviewed annually by management after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed discount rate, which is
intended to be the actual rate at which benefits could effectively be settled, is adjusted based on the change in the long-term treasury bond yield as of the measurement date. As of
December 27, 2003 the discount rate for our U.S. pension plan remained at 6.0%. The estimated effect of a 0.5% movement in the discount rate would be to change pension expense by
$0.5 million in 2004.

The
assumed expected return on plan assets is the average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide future benefits to pension plan participants. If the actual
return is different from the assumed expected return in plan assets, the difference would be amortized over a period of approximately 15 to 20 years. During 2003, we lowered our expected return
on plan assets to 8.5% from 9.0% for our U.S. pension plan. This is expected to increase the annual pension expense by approximately $0.2 million in 2004.

Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets.

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial
statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax exposure and assessing temporary and
permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our
consolidated balance sheet. As part of our 1999 recapitalization transaction, we elected under Internal Revenue Code Section 338(h)(10) to treat the transaction as a purchase resulting in a
step-up in the tax basis of the underlying assets. The election resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset in 1999 in the amount of $99.5 million for the estimated future tax benefits
associated with the increased tax basis of the assets. The balance of this deferred tax asset as of December 27, 2003 was $71.6 million.

We
must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. As of December 27, 2003, a valuation allowance of $4.1 million existed on a total net


deferred
tax asset of $64.8 million. To the extent we increase this valuation allowance in a period, we must report the effect as additional tax provision in the consolidated statement of
income. A valuation allowance is currently set against deferred tax assets because management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets related to certain state net operating
loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized through the generation of future taxable income. As of December 27, 2003, earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries
considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $69.6 million and, accordingly, no provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon. Distribution of those earnings would be subject to
U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to foreign countries, however, it is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on these undistributed earnings.

Significant
management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our future taxable income for purposes of assessing
our ability to realize any future benefit from our deferred tax assets. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease our deferred tax assets and materially impact our
results of operations. Furthermore in the event that actual results differ from management's estimates or we adjust these estimates in future periods, our operating results and financial position
could be materially affected.

In
the first quarter of 2004, the Company began a reorganization of its European operations. The purpose of the reorganization is to streamline the corporate legal structure in order to
improve operating efficiency and cash management, facilitate acquisitions and provide tax benefits. The reorganization, which will not involve reductions of personnel or facility closures, is expected
to result in a one-time, non-cash charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2004 of approximately $7,900 primarily due to the write-off of a deferred tax asset.

Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2003 were $613.7 million, an increase of $59.1 million, or
10.7%, from $554.6 million in 2002. The increase in net sales was primarily due to the increase in sales in our RMS segment during 2003.

Research Models & Services.

In 2003, RMS net sales were $405.1 million, an increase of $51.2 million, or
14.5%, compared to $353.9 million in 2002. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed approximately 5.6% to our net sales gain. RMS prices increased at certain geographical locations in
a range up to 5% with the weighted average increase of approximately 3%. Increased unit volume sales of both models and services added approximately 5% to the net sales growth. Research model unit
sales increased primarily due to increased demand for our higher-priced specialty units. Sales of our research model services increased in 2003 due to increased pricing, the consolidation of our
Mexican joint venture and an increased market demand. The RMS increase was driven by basic research and biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our services that support research
models, primarily transgenics and laboratory services. This growth reflects the increasing number of new disease models being created and the corresponding need for sophisticated housing and related
high-value services.


Development & Safety Testing.

In 2003, DST net sales were $208.6 million, an increase of $7.9 million,
or 3.9%, from $200.7 million in 2002. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed approximately 1.3% to our net sales gain. DST sales increased in 2003 primarily due to our 2002
acquisitions and an increase in

in vitro

safety testing sales, partially offset by the impact of reduced market demand for toxicology services in early
2003, lower sales in our biosafety testing services business, and the closure of our contract manufacturing facility. The acquisitions of BioLabs and Springborn contributed $17.8 million, or
8.9%, to the net sales growth in 2003. During 2003, DST experienced pricing pressures due to decreased demand earlier in the year resulting in a nominal price decline for the year. Our development
services group recovered from the slower demand for toxicology services we experienced during late 2002 and early 2003. We believe there is still some excess capacity in certain segments of the market
for outsourced development services, causing lingering price sensitivity.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2003 was
$380.1 million, an increase of $34.5 million, or 10.0%, from $345.6 million in 2002. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2003 was 61.9% of net sales, compared to 62.3%
in 2002. The increase in cost of products sold and services provided was due primarily to adverse foreign currency exchange of approximately 4%, increased product volume and general inflation. The
decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to better utilization of existing capacity and greater operating efficiencies.

Research Models & Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2003 was $238.3 million, an
increase of $26.1 million, or 12.3%, compared to $212.2 million in 2002. Cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales decreased to 58.8% in 2003 from 60.0% in
2002. The decrease in cost of product sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to better utilization of existing capacity and greater operating efficiencies, mainly in
North American and European research models and research models services.

Development & Safety Testing

Cost of products sold and services provided for DST in 2003 was $141.8 million, an
increase of $8.4 million, or 6.3%, compared to $133.4 million in 2002. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2003 increased to 68.0% of net sales compared to 66.5% of net sales
in 2002. The increase in cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was due primarily to decreased sales of certain development services during early 2003, which created
excess capacity, partially offset by the cost savings initiatives we implemented in 2003.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003
were $89.5 million, an increase of $6.2 million, or 7.4%, from $83.3 million in 2002. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 were 14.6% of net sales compared to
15.0% of net sales in 2002. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 was due primarily to adverse foreign
currency exchange, a full year of expenses related to the 2002 acquisitions and inflation, partially offset by the cost savings initiatives we implemented in 2003. The decrease in selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to our ability to manage our cost increases at a rate slightly lower than our sales growth.

Research Models & Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2003 were $42.6 million, an
increase of $4.5 million, or 11.8%, compared to $38.1 million in 2002. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 decreased to 10.5% of net sales, compared to 10.8% of net
sales in 2002. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to our efforts to limit our expense growth.

Development & Safety Testing

Selling, general and administrative expenses for DST in 2003 were $31.4 million,
an increase of $0.8 million compared to $30.6 million in 2002. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2003 were 15.0% of net sales, compared to 15.3% in 2002. Selling, general


and
administrative expenses for 2003 were virtually flat due mainly to the cost savings initiatives we implemented at the beginning of 2003, partially offset by the full year effect of the
acquisitions of Springborn and BioLabs.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate
expenses including those associated with executive salaries and departments such as corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $15.5 million in 2003, compared to
$14.5 million in 2002. The increase in unallocated corporate overhead in 2003 was due to an increased pension expense of $2.0 million, partially offset by lower bonuses for 2003.

Other Operating Expenses (Income).

During 2003, we recorded a $3.7 million charge associated
with the write-down of certain contract manufacturing assets. Also during 2003, our French subsidiaries settled a breach of contract claim they had asserted against a customer. After legal and related
expenses, the net settlement amounted to a gain of approximately $2.9 million.

Amortization of Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles in 2003 was $4.9 million,
an increase of $1.5 million from $3.4 million in 2002. The increase was due to the full year of amortization of intangible assets that arose from our 2002 acquisitions of BioLabs and
Springborn.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2003 was $138.6 million, an increase of
$16.3 million, or 13.3%, from $122.3 million in 2002. Operating income in 2003 was 22.6% of net sales, compared to 22.0% of net sales in 2002.

Research Models & Services.

In 2003, operating income from our RMS segment was $126.4 million, an increase of
$23.7 million, or 23.0%, from $102.7 million in 2002. Operating income in 2003 increased to 31.2% of net sales, compared to 29.0% of net sales in 2002. The increase in operating income
in 2003 was primarily due to increased sales and higher gross margins primarily from improved capacity utilization, along with stable selling, general and administrative expenses and the settlement of
the French lawsuit.

Development & Safety Testing

In 2003, operating income from our DST segment was $27.7 million, a decrease of
$6.4 million, or 18.9%, from $34.1 million in 2002. Operating income from sales of DST in 2003 was 13.3% of net sales, compared to 17.0% in 2002. The decrease in operating income in 2003
was primarily due to the decline in demand for these services which impacted gross margins, a charge related to the write-down of certain contract manufacturing assets and a full year of amortization
of intangibles related to the 2002 acquisitions, partially offset by our cost containment program.

Interest Income.

Interest income in 2003 was $1.8 million, compared to $2.1 million in
2002. The lower interest income was due primarily to lower interest rates.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2003 was $8.5 million, compared to $11.2 million
in 2002. The $2.7 million decrease was primarily due to the early retirement of debt.

Loss on Debt Retirement.

In 2002, we recorded a loss of $29.9 million relating to premiums
paid and the write-off of deferred financing costs and issuance discount in connection with the tender offer for all of our remaining 13.5% senior subordinated notes, other debt repayments and the
termination of our revolving credit facility.

Other Income.

Other income for 2003 was $0.8 million compared to $1.2 million for 2002.
The decrease was primarily due to lower net foreign currency gains then in 2002.

Income Taxes.

The effective tax rate for 2003 was 38.5% compared to the 2002 rate of 37.8%, which
included a $0.5 million benefit associated with the release of a valuation allowance in 2002. During 2002, we reassessed the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset associated with state
net


operating
loss carryforwards due to state tax planning initiatives and the completion of the 2001 state income tax returns.

Net Income.

Net income in 2003 was $80.2 million, an increase of $30.1 million or
59.9%, from $50.1 million in 2002.

Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2002 were $554.6 million, an increase of $89.0 million, or
19.1%, from $465.6 million in 2001.

Research Models and Services.

In 2002, net sales from our RMS segment were $353.9 million, an increase of
$76.5 million, or 27.6%, from $277.4 million in 2001. Favorable foreign currency translation contributed approximately 0.8% to our net sales gain. RMS global prices increased in a range
up to 5% with the average approximately 3%. Increased unit volume sales of both models and services added approximately 24% to net sales increase. Sales of our research models increased due to an
increase in unit volume and a shift in demand to higher-priced research models, additional sales from our 2001 acquisition of Genetic Models, Inc. (GMI) and increased sales of unique specialty
models through our cooperative agreement with The Jackson Laboratory. Sales of our research model services increased in 2002 due to strong sales growth from our transgenics and contract staffing
businesses, increased pricing and the consolidation of our Mexican joint venture.

Development & Safety Testing

In 2002, net sales from our DST segment were $200.7 million, an increase of
$12.4 million, or 6.6%, compared to $188.3 million in 2001. The increase was due to continued growth in outsourcing in the pharmaceutical industry, expanded

in
vitro

sales and the acquisitions of BioLabs and Springborn which contributed $9.7 million, or 5.1%, partially offset by reduced business at our contract manufacturing
facility.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 was
$345.6 million, an increase of $47.2 million, or 15.8%, from $298.4 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 was 62.3% of net sales, compared to 64.1%
in 2001 with the improvement due to operating improvements in both RMS and DST. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was due primarily to better
utilization of existing capacity and greater operating efficiencies.

Research Models and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2002 was $212.2 million, an
increase of $43.5 million, or 25.8%, compared to $168.7 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2002 improved to 60.0% of net sales compared to 60.8% of net sales
in 2001. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales
was primarily due to better utilization of existing capacity and greater operating efficiencies in Europe due to the closure of one of our facilities in France in 2001.

Development & Safety Testing

Cost of products sold and services provided for DST in 2002 was $133.4 million, an
increase of $3.7 million, or 2.9%, compared to $129.7 million in 2001. Cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was 66.5% in 2002, compared to 68.9% in
2001. The decrease in cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to greater operating efficiencies.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002
were $83.3 million, an increase of $15.0 million, or 21.9%, from $68.3 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 were 15.0% of net sales compared to
14.7% of net sales in 2001. The increase was due primarily to expenses associated with corporate overhead, the 2002 acquisitions and foreign exchange. The increase in selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of


net
sales was primarily due to the increase in unallocated corporate overhead, partially offset by improvements in selling, general and administrative expenses in RMS.

Research Models and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2002 were $38.1 million, an
increase of $1.7 million, or 4.8%, compared to $36.4 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 were 10.8% of net sales, compared to 13.1% in 2001. The
decrease in selling, general and administrative as a percentage of sales in 2002 was principally due to cost savings from greater economies of scale and a charge of $1.5 million associated with
the closure of one of our French facilities in 2001.

Development & Safety Testing

Selling, general and administrative expenses for DST in 2002 were $30.6 million,
an increase of $5.9 million, or 24.0%, compared to $24.7 million in 2001. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2002 increased to 15.3% of net sales, compared to 13.1% of net
sales in 2001. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in 2002 was due primarily to increased sales and marketing costs to more aggressively sell and support
our products.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate
expenses including those associated with senior executive salaries and departments such as corporate accounting, legal and investor relations, was $14.5 million in 2002, compared to
$7.2 million in 2001. The substantial increase in unallocated corporate overhead in 2002 was caused by decreased pension income of $3.2 million as well as additional costs incurred in
investor relations, external reporting, internal audit and legal due to our continued growth as a public company.

Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangibles.

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles in
2002 was $3.4 million, a decrease of $5.3 million, from $8.7 million in 2001. The Company ceased amortization of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets upon the adoption
of SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" as of the beginning of 2002. We completed the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment test for 2002, which identified
no impairment.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2002 was $122.3 million, an increase of
$32.0 million, or 35.4%, from $90.3 million in 2001. Operating income in 2002 was 22.0% of net sales, compared to 19.4% of net sales in 2001.

Research Models and Services.

In 2002, operating income for our RMS segment was $102.7 million, an increase of
$31.1 million, or 43.4%, from $71.6 million in 2001. Operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2002 was 29.0%, compared to 25.8% in 2001. The increase was primarily due to
increased sales and higher gross margins primarily from improved capacity utilization.

Development & Safety Testing.

In 2002, operating income for our DST segment was $34.1 million, an increase of
$8.2 million, or 31.6%, from $25.9 million in 2001. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 17.0%, compared to 13.8% of net sales in 2001. The increase in operating
income in 2002 was primarily due to the improved gross margin and the decrease in amortization expense as a result of our adoption of SFAS No. 142.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2002 was $11.2 million, compared to $22.8 million
in 2001. The $11.6 million decrease was primarily due to the impact of our tender offer for the 13.5% senior subordinated notes completed during 2002, the repayment of all of the term loans
during 2002, and the lower interest on our 3.5% senior convertible debentures.

Loss on Debt Retirement.

During 2002 and 2001, we recorded a loss of $29.9 million and
$8.1 million, respectively, relating to premiums paid and the write-off of deferred financing costs and issuance discount in connection with the tender offer for all of our remaining 13.5%
senior subordinated notes, other debt repayments and the termination of the revolving credit facility. On prior year financial statements, this loss was recorded as an extraordinary item.


Other Income.

Other income for 2002 was $1.2 million compared to $0.5 million for 2001.
The increase was primarily due to net foreign currency gains.

Income Taxes.

The effective tax rate for 2002 was 37.8%, which included a $0.5 million benefit
associated with the release of a valuation allowance related to state income taxes and the completion of the 2001 tax returns, compared to the effective tax rate of 39.5% for 2001. The decrease in the
effective tax rate was due to the lower tax rate of BioLabs, an Irish company, which we acquired in 2002.

Net Income.

Net income in 2002 was $50.1 million, an increase of $14.7 million from
$35.4 million in 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following discussion analyzes liquidity and capital resources by operating, investing and financing activities as presented in our condensed consolidated
statements of cash flows.

Our
principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, our revolving line of credit arrangements, and proceeds from our debt and equity offerings.

On
March 31, 2003, we entered into a revolving credit agreement which matures on March 31, 2006. The agreement permits us to borrow up to $100.0 million at an
interest rate based on, at the Company's option, the greatest of the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate plus 1%, and the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.5%, or LIBOR multiplied by the Statutory Reserve
Rate plus a spread of 1.25% to 2.50% based on our leverage ratio and the aggregate borrowing under the revolving credit agreement. Interest is payable based on our option of interest rate selected,
which ranges from monthly to semi-annually. The credit agreement requires us to pay a quarterly commitment fee which ranges from 25 through 50 basis points on the undrawn balance, based on our
leverage ratio. The agreement also requires us to remain in compliance with certain financial ratios as well as other restrictive covenants. Some of the restrictive covenants limit our ability to
acquire companies, increase our debt and pay dividends. There were no amounts outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 27, 2003.

Effective
January 2, 2003, we acquired an additional 19% of the equity (404,321 common shares) of our then 66% equity joint venture company, Charles River Japan, from Ajinomoto
Company, Inc. The purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or $10.8 million, which was paid in cash.

In
connection with the acquisition of Springborn in 2002, we entered into a $6.0 million three-year unsecured subordinated note. The note was payable in three equal annual
installments of principal, together with interest accrued in arrears commencing on October 1, 2003. The note was repaid in full early during 2003.

On
January 24, 2002, we issued $175.0 million par value of senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering. On February 11, 2002, we issued an
additional $10.0 million par value of the senior convertible debentures through the additional purchase option. The senior convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial annual rate of
3.5% which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.5% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2012 and August 1, 2016. Interest is payable semi-annually in
arrears, beginning August 1, 2002. The senior convertible debentures will mature in 2022 and are convertible into shares of our common stock at a fixed conversion price of $38.87, subject to
adjustments under certain circumstances. On or after February 5, 2005, we may redeem for cash all or part of the debentures that have not been previously converted at the redemption prices set
forth in the purchase agreement. Holders may require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their debentures on February 1, 2008, February 1, 2013 or February 1, 2017 at a price
equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued interest. In addition, upon a change in control of our Company occurring on or prior to February 1, 2022, each holder may
require


us
to repurchase all or a portion of such holder's debentures for cash. In 2002, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior convertible debenture offering to retire all of the 13.5% senior
subordinated notes through a tender offer.

During
2002, we repaid our outstanding senior secured term loan facilities and terminated our revolving credit facility. As a result of the termination of our revolving credit facility,
we were required to transfer $5.0 million into a separate bank account to support outstanding letters of credit. This amount was reported as restricted cash in our consolidated financial
statements as of December 28, 2002. During the second quarter of 2003, the restriction was lifted due to the new revolving credit agreement entered into by the Company. As of
December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, we had approximately $5.3 million and $4.7 million outstanding under letters of credit, respectively.

On
July 25, 2001, we consummated a public offering of 2,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $29.00 per share. We received net proceeds of approximately
$54.5 million, which we used to repay a portion of our indebtedness and retire obligations incurred in connection with acquisitions made in 2001.

On
March 21, 2001, we consummated a public offering of 3,500,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $19.00 per share. We received net proceeds of approximately
$62.2 million, which we used to repay a portion of our indebtedness and retire obligations incurred in connection with acquisitions made in 2001.

We
anticipate that our operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our anticipated future operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service obligations as they become due. We
currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations, expansion and acquisitions. Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. is a holding company with ownership of 100% of
the common stock of its subsidiary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc. In order to repay our obligations, we are dependent upon either
dividends from Charles River Laboratories, Inc., which are restricted by terms contained in the agreement governing the revolving credit facility, or through a refinancing or equity transaction.

Fiscal 2003 Compared to Fiscal 2002

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $182.3 million at December 27, 2003, compared to $122.5 million at December 28, 2002.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2003 and 2002 was $123.8 million and $133.7 million, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operations was primarily a
result of the increase in accounts receivable and decrease in accrued compensation partially offset by the utilization of our deferred tax asset. Our days sales outstanding increased to 67 days
as of December 27, 2003, compared to 64 days as of December 28, 2002. In addition, in 2002 we had a significant improvement in DSO, which added $11.7 million to cash flow.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2003 and 2002 was $63.4 million and $78.9 million, respectively. In 2003 we used $32.7 million for capital expenditures,
$21.8 million for the purchase of marketable securities and $10.8 million for the acquisition of an additional 19% of the equity of Charles River Japan. This compared to 2002 during
which we used net cash of $42.5 million to acquire BioLabs and Springborn and $37.5 million for capital expenditures. In 2003, we made capital expenditures in RMS and DST which were
$23.0 million and $9.7 million, respectively. We anticipate that the future capital expenditures will be funded by cash provided by operating activities. For 2004, we project capital
expenditure to be approximately $40 million. We continue to evaluate acquisitions to serve as growth platforms as evidenced by our acquisition of RVF in January 2004. We have various
options for financing future acquisitions, including our existing cash and investments, cash flow provided by operations, and our ability to raise capital through debt and equity financing.


Net
cash used in financing activities in 2003 was $8.8 million, compared to net cash provided by financing activities in 2002 of $5.2 million. During 2003, we received debt
proceeds of $6.9 million and repaid debt of $16.5 million. In 2002, we issued $185.0 million par value of 3.5% senior convertible debentures and we used $79.7 million of
the proceeds to repay all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes and $68.6 million to repay our outstanding senior secured credit facilities.

Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 27, 2003 are as follows:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1 – 3

Years

4 – 5

Years

After

5 Years

Long-term debt(1)

$

185.9

$

0.3

$

0.5

$

185.0

$

0.1

Interest payments(1)

26.5

6.5

13.0

7.0

—

Capital lease obligations

0.1

0.1

—

—

—

Operating leases

31.3

9.9

11.9

6.1

3.4

Unconditional purchase obligations

2.8

2.8

—

—

—

Total contractual cash obligations

$

246.6

$

19.6

$

25.4

$

198.1

$

3.5

(1)

The
contractual obligation for long-term debt assumes the senior convertible debentures will be repurchased by us in 2008 when holders of the debentures may exercise the right to
require such repurchase.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements during any of fiscal 2003, 2002 or 2001.

Fiscal 2002 Compared to Fiscal 2001

Cash and cash equivalents totaled $122.5 million at December 28, 2002, compared to $58.3 million at December 29, 2001.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2002 and 2001 was $133.7 million and $71.3 million, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily a
result of improved operating performance during 2002 and our reduction of accounts receivable. Our days sales outstanding decreased to 64 days as of December 28, 2002, from
74 days as of December 29, 2001, which contributed $11.7 million to cash flow primarily due to improved collection efforts.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2002 and 2001 was $78.9 million and $91.9 million, respectively. In 2002 we used cash of $42.5 million to acquire BioLabs
and Springborn and capital expenditures of $37.5 million of which $23.3 million was related to RMS and $14.2 million to DST. This compared to 2001 during which we used net cash of
$55.3 million to acquire PAI, Primedica and GMI and used $36.4 million for capital expenditures.

Net
cash provided by financing activities in 2002 and 2001 was $5.2 million and $47.2 million, respectively. During 2002, we issued $185.0 million par value of
senior convertible debentures and used $79.7 million of the proceeds to repay all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes and $68.6 million to repay our outstanding senior secured credit
facilities. In 2001, net cash included $116.7 million of
proceeds from our public offerings and $41.9 million from our bank financing, partially offset by repayment of debt.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 150, "Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity." This statement establishes standards for how an issuer


classifies
and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 150 is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified after
May 31, 2003 and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. This statement does not result in any material change to our existing
reporting. Our joint venture agreements are renewable by mutual agreement of the parties upon termination of the initial terms.

In
November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others, an interpretation of SFAS Nos. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for
Contingencies," relating to the guarantor's accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. FIN 45 requires that, upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must
recognize a liability for the fair value of the obligation. FIN 45 is applicable to guarantees that encompass guarantees based on changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security,
guarantees that are made on behalf of another entity's performance, certain indemnification agreements and indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The recognition and measurement provisions
of FIN 45 are effective prospectively for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for reporting periods ending after December 15,
2002. The adoption of the standard did not have any material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

In
November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached final consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables."
EITF Issue No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of a vendor's accounting for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. It provides additional guidance as
to how revenue should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into during fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of the standard did not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.

In
January 2003, FASB issued Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin
(ARB) No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities. First, FIN 46 will require identification of our participation in variable interest entities
(VIE), which are defined as entities with a level of invested equity that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a stand alone basis, or whose equity holders lack
certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Then, for entities identified as VIE, FIN 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party
to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. In December 2003, the FASB issued a revised FIN 46 to
defer the effective date and provide further clarification on the interpretation. FIN 46R is effective for public companies in the first fiscal period after December 15, 2003. We are currently
evaluating the effect that the adoption of FIN 46 will have on its results of operations and financial condition.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Certain of our financial instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not use
financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

The fair value of our marketable securities is subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates were to
increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis


points
from levels at December 27, 2003, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $0.1 million.

The
fair value of long-term fixed interest rate debt is subject to interest rate risk. In addition, the fair value of our senior convertible debentures would be impacted by our stock
price. The estimated fair value of our long-term debt at December 27, 2003 was $198.1 million. Fair values were determined from available market prices, using current interest rates and
terms to maturity.

Our
senior convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial rate of 3.5%, which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.5% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007,
August 1, 2012 and August 1, 2016.
Fluctuations in interest rates will not affect the interest payable on the senior convertible debentures, which is fixed through August 1, 2007.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate

We also have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for the cash flows received from our foreign affiliates. This risk is mitigated by the
fact that their operations are principally conducted in their respective local currencies.


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Page

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Independent Auditors


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 27, 2003,

December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 27, 2003,

December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedules:

Schedule I. Condensed Parent Company Financial Statements


Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


Supplementary Data:

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)



Report of Independent Auditors

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.:

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 27, 2003 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedules listed
in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 30, 2001.

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

Boston,
Massachusetts

February 6, 2004


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Net sales related to products

$

308,201

$

269,534

$

237,558

Net sales related to services

305,522

285,095

228,072

Net sales

613,723

554,629

465,630

Costs and expenses

Cost of products sold

170,524

149,839

138,624

Cost of services provided

209,534

195,807

159,755

Selling, general and administrative

89,489

83,303

68,315

Other operating expenses, net


—

—

Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles

4,876

3,414

8,653

Operating income

138,553

122,266

90,283

Other income (expense)

Interest income

1,774

2,120

1,493

Interest expense

(8,480

)

(11,205

)

(22,797

)

Loss on debt retirement

—

(29,882

)

(8,066

)

Other, net


1,222


Income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

132,630

84,521

61,413

Provision for income taxes

51,063

31,921

24,272

Income before minority interests and earnings from equity investments

81,567

52,600

37,141

Minority interests

(1,416

)

(2,784

)

(2,206

)

Earnings from equity investments

—



Net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.86

Diluted

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.80

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands)

December 27,


December 28,


Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

182,331

$

122,509

Restricted cash

—

5,000

Marketable securities

13,156

—

Trade receivables, less allowances of $1,644 and $1,540, respectively

111,514

94,245

Inventories

52,370

43,892

Other current assets

11,517

12,446

Total current assets

370,888

278,092

Property, plant and equipment, net

203,458

187,875

Goodwill, net

105,308

96,532

Other intangibles, net

30,415

34,204

Deferred tax asset

61,603

80,884

Other assets

27,882

23,757

Total assets

$

799,554

$

701,344

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities

Accounts payable

$

19,433

$

13,084

Accrued compensation

27,251

31,825

Deferred income

30,846

27,029

Accrued liabilities

28,843

28,357

Accrued income taxes

4,889

7,036

Other current liabilities

3,089

6,038

Total current liabilities

114,351

113,369

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

185,683

192,484

Accrued Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

12,873

11,195

Other long-term liabilities

11,848

8,353

Total liabilities

324,755

325,401

Commitments and contingencies (Note 14)

Minority interests

10,176

18,567

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 120,000,000 shares authorized; 45,801,211 and 45,218,693 shares issued and outstanding at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively



Capital in excess of par value

609,781

601,728

Retained earnings (deficit)

(152,885

)

(233,036

)

Unearned compensation

(1,985

)

(2,201

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

9,254

(9,567

)

Total shareholders' equity

464,623

357,376

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

799,554

$

701,344

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

29,564

23,986

27,175

Amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts

1,216

1,741

1,403

Amortization of premiums on marketable securities


—

—

Provision for doubtful accounts

1,494

(25

)

1,550

Loss on debt retirement

—

29,882

8,066

Earnings from equity investments

—

(316

)

(472

)

Minority interests

1,416

2,784

2,206

Deferred income taxes

8,890

(391

)

14,367

Windfall tax benefit from exercises of employee stock options

3,197

4,669

1,891

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment


3,526

1,118

Asset impairment charge

3,655

—

—

Litigation settlement

(2,908

)

—

—

Non-cash compensation

1,102

1,002


Changes in assets and liabilities:

Restricted cash

5,000

(5,000

)

—

Trade receivables

(13,356

)

11,739

(28,037

)

Inventories

(5,733

)

(1,645

)

(3,762

)

Other current assets

2,590

2,450

(730

)

Other assets

2,819


(2,163

)

Accounts payable

4,486

(3,753

)


Accrued compensation

(6,464

)

3,792

4,467

Deferred income

6,308

5,170

10,241

Accrued liabilities

(740

)

(6,943

)

(2,377

)

Accrued income taxes

(2,985

)

2,990


Other current liabilities


3,009

(613

)

Accrued Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

1,678

(188

)

1,267

Other long-term liabilities

1,474

4,276

(986

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

123,766

133,659

71,298

Cash flows relating to investing activities

Capital expenditures

(32,704

)

(37,543

)

(36,406

)

Purchases of marketable securities

(21,824

)

—

—

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

(10,841

)

(42,498

)

(55,265

)

Proceeds from sale of marketable securities

1,108

—

—

Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment


1,156

—

Contingent payments for prior year acquisitions

—

—

(250

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(63,389

)

(78,885

)

(91,921

)

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from long-term debt and revolving credit facility

6,943

188,922

41,915

Payments on long-term debt and revolving credit facility

(16,535

)

(157,739

)

(104,462

)

Premium paid on early retirement of debt

—

(23,886

)

(3,841

)

Payments of deferred financing cost

(783

)

(6,123

)

(984

)

Payments on capital lease obligations

(491

)

(143

)

(4,202

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of transaction fees

—

—

116,691

Proceeds from exercises of employee stock options

3,069

3,137

1,380

Proceeds from exercises of warrants


2,136


Dividends paid to minority interests

(1,902

)

(1,470

)

(729

)

Payments received from officer loans

—



Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(8,792

)

5,175

47,230

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

8,237

4,289

(1,465

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

59,822

64,238

25,142

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

122,509

58,271

33,129

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

182,331

$

122,509

$

58,271

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for interest

$

6,957

$

9,569

$

21,470

Cash paid for taxes

$

37,736

$

15,893

$

5,868

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

Total

Retained

Earnings

Accumulated Other

Comprehensive

Income

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess of

Par

Loans to

Officers

Unearned

Compensation

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

119,864

$

(318,575

)

$

(12,404

)

$


$

451,404

$

(920

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

35,407

$

35,407

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(3,550

)

—

(3,550

)

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(62

)

—

(62

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

31,795

—

—

—

—

—

—

Issuance of common stock

116,691

—

—


116,636

—

—

Exercise of stock options

1,380

—

—


1,378

—

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options

1,891

—

—

—

1,891

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—



—

—

Issuance of restricted stock related to business acquisitions

16,375

—

—


16,368

—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—

—


—

(368

)

Amortization of unearned compensation


—

—

—

—

—


Repayment of officer loans


—

—

—

—


—

Balance at December 29, 2001

$

289,510

$

(283,168

)

$

(16,016

)

$


$

588,909

$

(341

)

$

(316

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

50,132

$

50,132

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

5,892

—

5,892

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment


—


—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

56,581

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of stock options

3,137

—

—


3,133

—

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options

4,669

—

—

—

4,669

—

—

Exercise of warrants

2,136

—

—


2,131

—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—


2,886

—

(2,887

)

Amortization of unearned compensation

1,002

—

—

—

—

—

1,002

Repayment of officer loans


—

—

—

—


—

Balance at December 28, 2002

$

357,376

$

(233,036

)

$

(9,567

)

$


$

601,728

$

—

$

(2,201

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

$

80,151

$

80,151

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

19,015

—

19,015

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(266

)

—

(266

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on marketable securities


—


—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

98,972

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of stock options

3,069

—

—


3,065

—

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercise of stock options

3,197

—

—

—

3,197

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—



—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—

—


—

(886

)

Amortization of unearned compensation

1,102

—

—

—

—

—

1,102

Balance at December 27, 2003

$

464,623

$

(152,885

)

$

9,254

$


$

609,781

$

—

$

(1,985

)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) is a leading provider of critical research tools and
integrated support services that enable innovative and efficient drug discovery and development. The Company's fiscal year is the twelve-month period ending the last Saturday in December.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts, transactions and profits are eliminated. Results for three
majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded on a one-month lag basis. There were no material transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date and December 27, 2003.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, as such, include amounts based on informed estimates
and judgments of management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the purchase date of three months or less.

Restricted Cash

Restricted cash consists of cash reserved to support outstanding letters of credit at December 28, 2002. The Company was required to restrict $5,000 of
cash as a result of the termination of its then existing revolving credit facility in 2002, which previously supported the outstanding letters of credit.

Marketable Securities

The Company accounts for its investment in marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115, "Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." Investments in marketable securities (Note 5) consists of corporate debt securities and government securities and obligations which are
classified as securities available-for-sale.

Realized
gains and losses on securities classified as available-for-sale are included in earnings and are determined using the specific identification method. Unrealized holding gains
and losses, net of related tax effect, are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of shareholders' equity, until realized. The
amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included in interest income.


Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts which it believes is adequate to cover anticipated losses on the collection of all outstanding trade
receivable balances. The adequacy of the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information, a review of major customer accounts, receivable balances and management's assessment of current
economic conditions. The Company reassesses the allowance for doubtful accounts each quarter.

Inventories

Inventories (Note 6) are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally on the average cost method, or market. The determination of market value
involves assessment of numerous factors, including costs to dispose of inventory and estimated selling price. Reserves are recorded to reduce the carrying value for inventory determined damaged,
obsolete or otherwise unsaleable. Costs for large animals are accumulated in inventory until the animals are sold.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment (Note 6), including improvements that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are recorded at cost,
while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Depreciation is calculated for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as
follows: buildings, 20 to 40 years; machinery and equipment, 2 to 20 years; furniture and fixtures, 5 to 7 years; vehicles, 2 to 4 years; and leasehold improvements, the
shorter of estimated useful life or the lease periods.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Effective at the beginning of fiscal 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which establishes financial accounting
and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets (Note 7). In accordance with SFAS No. 142, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are no longer
amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives.

SFAS
No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment. The second step of the
impairment test measures the amount of the impairment loss. The Company completed the annual impairment tests in 2003 and 2002 and concluded there was no impairment of goodwill. Intangible assets
deemed to have an indefinite life are tested for impairment using a one-step process which compares the fair value to the carrying amount of the asset. The Company completed the annual impairment
tests in 2003 and 2002 and concluded there was no impairment of identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Other Assets

Other assets consist primarily of the cash surrender value of life insurance policies, a defined benefit plan pension asset and certain investments in
available-for-sale securities that the Company does not intend to dispose of within the next twelve months.


Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," in 2002. The Company evaluates
long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted
future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, the
carrying value of long-lived assets is reduced to the estimated fair value, as determined using an appraisal or discounted cash flows, as appropriate.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

As permitted under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans (Note 12)
using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Interpretation No. 44 (FIN 44), "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation—an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25." Also, the Company accounts for
variable restricted stock grants under the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 28, "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Options Award Plans." The Company
recognizes compensation expenses for fixed and variable restricted stock grants over the restriction period.

SFAS
No. 123 requires the presentation of certain pro forma information as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value method. For purposes of
this disclosure, the fair value of the fixed option grants was estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions used for option grants:




Risk-free interest rate

3.1

%

4.1

%

4.9

%

Volatility factor

51.3

%

51.2

%

56.1

%

Weighted average expected life (years)

6.0

6.0

6.0

The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition,
option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because the Company's employee stock options have characteristics
significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates, in management's opinion, the existing
models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock options. However, for each period presented, management believes the Black-Scholes model is the most
appropriate option valuation model. The weighted average Black-Scholes fair value for the 2003, 2002 and 2001 grants was $17.04, $17.62 and $17.59, respectively.

Had
compensation expense for the Company's option grants been recognized consistent with the provision of SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation-Transition and Disclosure, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123," the Company's net income


and
earnings per share for the years ended December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:




Reported net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

Add: Stock-based employee compensation included in reported net income, net of tax




Less: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all awards, net of tax

(10,456

)

(6,204

)

(4,164

)

Pro forma net income

$

70,373

$

44,544

$

31,275

Reported basic earnings per share

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.86

Pro forma basic earnings per share

$

1.55

$

1.00

$

0.76

Reported diluted earnings per share

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.80

Pro forma diluted earnings per share

$

1.45

$

0.95

$

0.71

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue related to its products and services in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements."

The
Company recognizes revenue related to its products, which include research models,

in vitro

technology and vaccine support products,
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, generally in the form of customer purchase orders, title and risk of loss have transferred, which occurs upon delivery of the products, the sales
price is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the product is delivered to the customer's site. Product sales are recorded net
of returns upon delivery.

The
Company's service revenue is comprised of toxicology, pathology, laboratory, transgenic and contract staffing services and is generally evidenced by customer contracts. Toxicology
services provide highly specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. Pathology services provide the ability to
identify and characterize pathologic changes within tissues and cells in determining the safety of a new compound. Laboratory services monitor and analyze health and genetics of research models used
in research protocols. Transgenic services include validating, maintaining, breeding and testing research models for biomedical research activities. Contract staffing services provide management of
animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology organizations.

The
toxicology and pathology services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up to approximately 24 months in length. These agreements are negotiated
for a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic and contract staffing services are of a longer-term
nature, from six months to five years, and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified in the contract.


The
Company's service revenues are recognized upon the Company's completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance criteria are generally in the form of either study
protocols or specified activities or procedures which the Company is engaged to perform. These performance criteria are established by the Company's customers and do not contain acceptance provisions
which are based upon the achievement of certain study or laboratory testing results. Revenue of agreed upon rate contracts is recognized as services are performed, based upon rates specified in the
contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are performed in accordance with agreed-upon study protocols.

Unbilled
and deferred revenue is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. Unbilled services are recorded for revenues recognized to date and relate to amounts that are currently
unbillable to the customer pursuant to contractual terms. In general, amounts become billable upon the achievement of milestones or in accordance with predetermined payment schedules. In some cases, a
portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue as services are performed.

Guarantees

The Company includes standard indemnification provisions in its customer contracts, which include standard provisions limiting the Company's liability under such
contracts, including the Company's indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of the Company's significant financial instruments, which include cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and accounts
payable, approximate their fair
values at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002. The fair value of the Company's financing instruments (Note 8) was $198,109 at December 27, 2003.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The asset and liability approach underlying SFAS
No. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of the
Company's assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items will expire before the Company is able to realize their
benefits or that their future deductibility is uncertain.

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currencies of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are in local currency. In accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation," the
financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income, expenses and cash flows at average exchange rates;
and shareholders' equity at historical exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet.
Exchange gains and losses on foreign


currency
transactions are recorded as other income or expense. The Company recorded exchange gains of $702, $1,222 and $36 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables from customers in the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. The Company believes its exposure to credit risk to be minimal, as these industries have experienced significant growth and the customers are predominantly
well established and viable.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." As it relates to the Company,
comprehensive income is defined as net income plus the sum of the changes in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and minimum
pension liabilities (collectively, other comprehensive income) and is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, net of tax.

Pension Obligations

The Company recognizes obligations associated with its defined benefit pension plans (Note 11) in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting
for Pensions." Assets, liabilities and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As required by SFAS No. 87, the Company is required to make certain assumptions to value the
plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually, or whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on reviews of current plan information and consultations with
independent investment advisors and actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high degree of judgment and may materially change from period to period. The Company does not offer other defined
benefits associated with post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions. The Company adopted the disclosure requirements under SFAS No. 132R, "Employers' Disclosure about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits, an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88 and 106," as of December 27, 2003 for both domestic and foreign defined benefit plans.

Restructuring Costs

The Company recognizes obligations associated with restructuring activities in accordance with SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities." The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 146 as of the beginning of fiscal 2003, which generally requires a liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal
activity be recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred. The overall purpose of the Company's restructuring actions is to lower overall
operating costs and improve profitability by reducing excess capacities. Restructuring charges (Note 3) are typically recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the period in
which the plan is approved by the Company's senior management and, where material, the Company's Board of Directors, and when the liability is incurred.


Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding adjusted for contingently issuable
shares. Diluted earnings per common share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include the number of additional common shares that would have been
outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares had been issued (Note 9).

New Accounting Pronouncements

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No.150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity." This
statement establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. SFAS No. 150 is effective for
financial instruments entered into or modified after May 31, 2003 and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. This statement
does not result in any material change to the Company's existing reporting. The Company's joint venture agreements are renewable by mutual agreement of the parties upon termination of the initial
terms.

In
November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, an
interpretation of SFAS Nos. 5, 57, and 107 and Rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34." FIN 45 clarifies the requirements of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," relating to the
guarantor's accounting for, and disclosure of, the issuance of certain types of guarantees. FIN 45 requires that, upon issuance of a guarantee, the guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair
value of the obligation. FIN 45 is applicable to guarantees that encompass guarantees based on changes in an underlying asset, liability or equity security, guarantees that are made on behalf of
another entity's performance, certain indemnification agreements and indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 are effective prospectively
for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2002. The adoption of the standard
did not have any material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In
November 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached final consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-21, "Accounting for Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables."
EITF Issue No. 00-21 addresses certain aspects of a vendor's accounting for arrangements under which it will perform multiple revenue-generating activities. It provides additional guidance as
to how revenue should be measured and allocated to the separate units of accounting. EITF Issue No. 00-21 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into during fiscal periods
beginning after June 15, 2003. The adoption of the standard did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

In
January 2003, FASB issued FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities," which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51,
"Consolidated Financial Statements," relating to consolidation of certain entities. First, FIN 46 will require identification of the Company's participation in variable interest entities (VIE), which
are defined as entities with a level of invested


equity
that is not sufficient to fund future activities to permit them to operate on a stand alone basis, or whose equity holders lack certain characteristics of a controlling financial interest.
Then, for entities identified as VIE, FIN 46 sets forth a model to evaluate potential consolidation based on an assessment of which party to the VIE, if any, bears a majority of the exposure to its
expected losses, or stands to gain from a majority of its expected returns. In December 2003, the FASB issued a revised FIN 46 to defer the effective date and provide further clarification on
the interpretation. FIN 46R is effective for public companies in the first fiscal period after December 15, 2003. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of FIN 46 will
have on its results of operations and financial condition.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in prior year financial statements and related notes have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. These reclassifications
have no impact on previously reported net income or cash flow.

2. Business Acquisitions

The Company acquired several businesses during the three-year period ended December 27, 2003. The results of operations of the acquired businesses are
included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the following:

Effective
January 2, 2003, the Company acquired an additional 19% of the equity (404,321 common shares) of Charles River Japan from Ajinomoto Company, Inc. (Ajinomoto), the
minority interest partner, which increased the Company's ownership to 85% of the outstanding shares. The purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion yen, or $10,841, which was paid in cash.
The Company recorded goodwill of $2,553 based on the preliminary purchase price allocation in the first quarter of 2003. The Company reallocated this amount to fixed assets based on an independent
valuation of these fixed assets, which was completed during the second quarter of 2003. Charles River Japan is an extension of the Company's research models and services segment.

During
the first quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $6,000 associated with prior-year acquisitions. This resulted in an increase in goodwill of $6,000.

On
October 1, 2002, the Company acquired 100% of the voting equity interests of privately-held Springborn Laboratories, Inc. (Springborn). Consideration, including
acquisition expenses, was $26,452, net of cash acquired of $634. Consideration consisted of $20,452 in cash and $6,000 in the form of a three-year unsecured subordinated note (Note 8).
Springborn provides expertise in short to mid-term toxicology studies. Springborn was acquired to strengthen service offerings of the Company's existing development and safety testing segment. The
acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations."


On
June 7, 2002, the Company acquired 100% of the voting equity interests of privately-held Biological Laboratories Europe Limited (BioLabs). Consideration, including acquisition
expenses, was $22,900, net of cash acquired of $2,998. The consideration consisted of $21,012 in cash and $1,888 in future payments, which are to be paid to certain former shareholders of BioLabs over
a three-year period. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company paid $746 to certain former shareholders of BioLabs, which represents one-third of the required future payments to be made by the
Company based on the agreement. BioLabs, located in western Ireland, provides a broad range of services supporting the discovery, development and manufacturing of pharmaceutical, medical devices and
animal and human health products. BioLabs was acquired to strengthen the Company's existing development and safety testing segment by adding new capabilities to service the large and growing global
animal health and medical device industry. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141.

The
final purchase price allocations associated with the 2002 BioLabs and Springborn acquisitions are as follows:

Springborn

BioLabs

Current assets

$

2,506

$

1,661

Property, plant and equipment

4,486

7,612

Other non-current assets

—


Current liabilities

(4,323

)

(1,724

)

Non-current liabilities

—

(1,372

)

Estimated fair value, net assets acquired

2,669

6,247

Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

23,783

16,653

Consideration, net of cash acquired

$

26,452

$

22,900

Springborn

BioLabs

Weighted

average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

9,500

$

4,407

10.0

Trade names and trademarks

—


3.0

Other identifiable intangibles

1,100

1,070

5.7

Goodwill

13,183

10,982

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

23,783

$

16,653

9.3

On
October 2, 2002, the Company entered into an agreement with Proteome Systems, Ltd. (Proteome) to establish a joint venture. The Company owns 80% of the established joint
venture company, Charles River Proteomic Services, Inc. (Charles River Proteomics), which was initially capitalized with $6,000, consisting of $5,000 in cash and a $1,000 working capital loan
provided by the Company and Proteome, in proportion to their equity interests. During 2003, Charles River Proteomics borrowed $500 against the working capital loan. Interest is based on the Federal
Short Term rate, 1.67% at December 27, 2003, and is payable quarterly beginning March 31, 2004. Principal is due in


full
by the end of the joint venture agreement. The Company has an option exercisable beginning on January 1, 2006 to purchase up to 100% of the equity in Charles River Proteomics based on the
fair market value at the time of exercise. Charles River Proteomics was established to strengthen the Company's existing development and safety testing segment by adding new capabilities in the area
of drug discovery and development. The Company began consolidating the operations of Charles River Proteomics from the date of the agreement.

On
August 20, 2002, the Company amended the joint venture agreement for Charles River Mexico, which was accounted for under the equity method. Upon execution of the amendment, the
Company gained control over the operations. The Company's ownership percentage of 50.1% did not change as a result of this amendment and no additional contributions were made. The Company began
consolidating the operations of Charles River Mexico from the date of the amendment. Upon consolidation, the Company reversed its equity investment of $3,203, and recognized goodwill of $581 and
minority interest of $2,587. Results of operations in 2002 were not materially impacted from the consolidation. Charles River Mexico is an extension of the Company's vaccine support business, part of
the research models and services segment.

On
July 20, 2001, the Company purchased 100% of the common stock of Genetic Models, Inc. (GMI) for cash consideration of $4,000. This acquisition was recorded as a purchase
business combination in accordance with SFAS No. 141.

Effective
February 27, 2001, the Company acquired Primedica Corporation (Primedica) for consideration of $51,107, including acquisition expenses. Consideration was comprised of
$25,708 of cash, $16,375 of the Company's common stock and $9,024 in assumed debt. This acquisition was recorded as a purchase business combination in accordance with APB No. 16, "Business
Combinations."

On
January 8, 2001, the Company purchased 100% of the common stock of Pathology Associates International Corporation (PAI). Consideration of $35,238, including acquisition
expenses, was paid with respect to this acquisition, consisting of $25,557 of cash and a $12,000 callable convertible note (Note 8). Consideration of $9,681 was recorded with respect to the
convertible note due to an issuance discount. The cash consideration was funded in part through a $15,000 drawdown from the Company's revolving credit facility. This acquisition was recorded as a
purchase business combination in accordance with APB No. 16.


The
final purchase price allocations associated with the 2001 PAI, Primedica and GMI acquisitions are as follows:

PAI

Primedica

GMI

Net current assets

$

3,126

$

4,303

$


Property, plant and equipment

1,276

24,594


Non-current assets



—

Non-current liabilities

—

(859

)

(44

)

Estimated fair value, net assets acquired

4,561

28,073


Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

30,677

23,034

3,438

Consideration, net of cash acquired

35,238

51,107

4,000

Less: assumed debt

—

(9,024

)

—

$

35,238

$

42,083

$

4,000

PAI

Primedica

GMI

Workforce*

$

2,970

$

15,000

$

—

Trade names and trademarks

2,000

1,000

—

Customer contracts

2,550

—

—

Standard operating procedures



—

Research models

—

—

3,438

Other identifiable intangibles

—


—

Goodwill

23,017

5,565

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

30,677

$

23,034

$

3,438

*

In
connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 141, workforce has been reclassified to goodwill (Note 7).

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of the period immediately
preceding the period of acquisition after giving effect to certain adjustments for the amortization of goodwill and related income tax effects. The pro forma data is for informational purposes only
and does not necessarily reflect the results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods


reported.
No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been realized through the acquisitions.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


(as reported)

Net sales

$

613,723

$

576,325

$

508,631

Operating income

138,553

125,279

94,018

Net income

80,151

52,652

37,055

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

1.76

$

1.17

$

0.90

Diluted

$

1.64

$

1.11

$

0.84

Refer
to Note 9 for further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.

3. Restructuring and Other Charges

Restructuring Charges

During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $1,788, including asset disposals of $1,041, employee separation of $477 and
other charges of $270, associated with the closure of a San Diego, California, facility. The restructuring plan included the termination of approximately 40 employees and the exit of a facility
utilized under an operating lease. During 2002, the Company recorded an additional $292 charge relating to the facility's lease obligation based on the Company's revised estimate of expected sublease
income over the remaining lease term. During the third quarter of 2003, the Company recorded an additional $404 charge relating to the remaining lease obligation at the facility due to adverse rental
market conditions in the San Diego area.

During
the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $1,290, including asset disposal of $212, associated with the closure of a facility in France. During
2001, the Company
recorded additional charges of $1,915, which included a write-down of assets held for sale of $400 and additional severance payments and other related expenses of $1,515, relating to the settlement of
labor disputes which originated during the first quarter of 2001. Approximately 60 employees were terminated as a result of the restructuring.

Other Charges

During the second and third quarters of 2003, the Company recorded a total charge of $954 for severance to employees who were terminated as part of a cost savings
program. The Company recorded $690 of the charge to cost of services provided and $264 to selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. Approximately 100
employees, mainly technicians, technical support and administrative staff, were terminated as part of the cost savings program.

During
the first quarter of 2003, the Company re-evaluated the marketability of certain long-lived assets related to a biopharmaceutical production facility in Maryland, which is
included in the development and safety testing segment, due to a significant decline in market interest in purchasing


these
assets. Since the Company was unable to locate a buyer for these assets, an impairment charge was recognized because future undiscounted cash flows were estimated to be insufficient to recover
the related book value. The Company recorded an asset impairment charge of $3,655 for the write-down of those assets including a net write-down of leasehold improvements of $2,195 and machinery and
equipment of $1,460. The charge was recorded as other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of income.

A
summary of the activities associated with the above restructuring and other charges and the related liabilities balance is as follows:

Employee

Separations

Other

Total

December 30, 2000

$


$


$

1,078

Amounts paid

(1,471

)

(180

)

(1,651

)

Additional charges

1,828


2,262

December 29, 2001

1,350


1,689

Amounts paid

(1,076

)

(243

)

(1,319

)

Additional charges

—



December 28, 2002




Amounts paid

(790

)

(246

)

(1,036

)

Additional charges



1,358

Reversal

(261

)

(89

)

(350

)

Foreign currency translation




December 27, 2003

$


$


$


The
Company has closed both the San Diego facility and the French facility and expects the reserves to be fully utilized by 2004. All terminated employees had separated from the Company
by the end of the third quarter of 2002.

4. Litigation Settlement

On March 28, 2003, the Company's French subsidiaries, which are included in the research models and services segment, settled a pending breach of contract
claim against a customer. The Company's French subsidiaries had previously been awarded damages of approximately $4,600 by the Commercial Court of Lyon and the damages award was stayed pending appeal
by the customer at the French Supreme Court. The final settlement of this dispute was for a gross value of approximately $3,750, resulting in the retention by the Company's French subsidiaries of the
amount previously deposited by the customer, pursuant to the order of the Commercial Court of Lyon and recorded in deferred income in the consolidated balance sheet. During 2000, the Company
recognized approximately $350 of the damages award to offset a portion of subcontractor costs incurred based on the indemnification clause in the original customer agreement. After legal and related
expenses, the Company's French subsidiaries recorded a net gain for the retained settlement amount of $2,908, which was recorded in the first quarter of 2003 as other operating income in the
consolidated statements of income.


5. Marketable Securities

The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value for marketable securities available for sale by major security type at
December 27, 2003 were as follows:

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair

Value

Corporate debt securities

$

11,656

$


$

—

$

11,748

Government securities and obligations

8,719


(10

)

8,737

$

20,375

$


$

(10

)

$

20,485

Maturities
of corporate debt securities and government securities and obligations classified as available-for-sale at December 27, 2003 were as follows:

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

Due less than one year

$

13,250

$

13,156

Due after one year through five years

7,125

7,329

$

20,375

$

20,485

Marketable
securities due after one year are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

6. Supplemental Balance Sheet Information

The composition of inventories is as follows:

December 27,


December 28,


Raw materials and supplies

$

6,872

$

5,966

Work in process

4,028

3,730

Finished products

41,470

34,196

Inventories

$

52,370

$

43,892


The
composition of property, plant and equipment is as follows:

December 27,


December 28,


Land

$

12,328

$

10,888

Buildings

207,385

182,160

Machinery and equipment

166,178

140,103

Leasehold improvements

13,018

13,512

Furniture and fixtures

4,080

3,232

Vehicles

3,175

2,539

Construction in progress

15,636

18,219

421,800

370,653

Less accumulated depreciation

(218,342

)

(182,778

)

Net property, plant and equipment

$

203,458

$

187,875

Depreciation
expense for 2003, 2002, and 2001 was $24,688, $20,572, and $18,522, respectively.

7. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization:

December 27, 2003

December 28, 2002

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Goodwill

$

118,014

$

(12,706

)

$

108,998

$

(12,466

)

Other intangible assets not subject to amortization:

Research models

3,438

—

3,438

—

Other intangible assets subject to amortization:

Customer relationships

26,818

(5,752

)

25,786

(2,792

)

Customer contracts

3,585

(3,078

)

3,555

(2,060

)

Trademarks and trade names

3,224

(913

)

3,211

(601

)

Standard operating procedures

1,353

(637

)

1,384

(372

)

Other identifiable intangible assets

5,531

(3,154

)

5,309

(2,654

)

Total other intangible assets

43,949

(13,534

)

42,683

(8,479

)

Total goodwill and other intangible assets

$

161,963

$

(26,240

)

$

151,681

$

(20,945

)


The
changes in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill from December 29, 2001 to December 27, 2003 are as follows:

Research Models and Services

Development and Safety Testing

Total

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Gross

Carrying

Amount

Accumulated

Amortization

Balance at December 29, 2001

$

13,295

$

(2,590

)

$

47,571

$

(6,189

)

$

60,866

$

(8,779

)

Adjustments to goodwill:

Assembled workforce reclassification

—

—

20,925

(3,542

)

20,925

(3,542

)

Acquisitions


—

25,165

—

25,291

—

Consolidation of equity investment transfer


—

—

—


—

Foreign currency translation


(92

)

1,009

(53

)

1,335

(145

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

14,328

(2,682

)

94,670

(9,784

)

108,998

(12,466

)

Adjustments to goodwill:

Acquisitions

1,331

—

4,669

—

6,000

—

Foreign currency translation


(183

)

2,366

(57

)

3,016

(240

)

Balance at December 28, 2003

$

16,309

$

(2,865

)

$

101,705

$

(9,841

)

$

118,014

$

(12,706

)

Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five years is as follows:


$

3,657


2,944


2,838


2,593


2,567

The
following selected consolidated results are presented as if SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142 had been adopted at the beginning of fiscal year 2001 and, accordingly,
amortization for goodwill and assembled workforce has been eliminated.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Reported net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

Amortization of goodwill, net of tax

—

—

3,835

Net income, as adjusted

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

39,242

Reported basic earning per share

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.86

Basic earnings per share, as adjusted

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.95

Reported diluted earnings per share

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.80

Diluted earnings per share, as adjusted

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.89


8. Long-Term Debt and Capital Lease Obligations

Long-Term Debt

On March 31, 2003, the Company entered into a revolving credit agreement which matures on March 31, 2006. The agreement permits the Company to
borrow up to $100,000 at an interest rate based on, at the Company's option, the greatest of the Prime Rate, the Base CD Rate plus 1% and the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 0.5%, or LIBOR
multiplied by the Statutory Reserve Rate plus a spread of 1.25% to 2.50% based on the leverage ratio of the Company and the aggregate borrowing under the revolving credit agreement. Interest is
payable, ranging from monthly to semi-annually, based on the Company's option of interest rate selected. The credit agreement requires the Company to pay a quarterly commitment fee which ranges from
25 through 50 basis points annually on the undrawn balance, based on the leverage of the Company. The agreement also requires the Company to remain in compliance with certain financial ratios as well
as other restrictive covenants. No amounts were outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 27, 2003. The Company had $5,313 and $4,708 outstanding under letters of credit as of
December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively.

In
connection with the acquisition of Springborn (Note 2), the Company entered into a $6,000 three-year unsecured subordinated note. The note was payable in three equal annual
installments of
principal, together with interest accrued in arrears commencing on October 1, 2003. Interest was payable based on the one month LIBOR rate plus 1%. The Company repaid this note in full during
2003.

Effective
at the beginning of fiscal year 2003, the Company adopted SFAS No. 145, "Recission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 13, and Technical Corrections." SFAS No. 145 eliminates the requirement that gains and losses from the extinguishment of debt be aggregated and, if material, classified as an
extraordinary item, net of the related income tax effect. However, an entity would not be prohibited from classifying such gains and losses as extraordinary items so long as they are both unusual in
nature and infrequent in occurrence. As the tender offer, repayment of the senior secured term loan facilities and termination of the revolving credit facility were not unusual in nature and
infrequent in occurrence, the extraordinary loss before tax for 2002 and 2001 of $29,882 and $8,066, respectively, was reclassified to loss on debt retirement. The related tax benefit for 2002 and
2001 of $11,651 and $2,823, respectively, was reclassified to the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of income.

On
January 24, 2002, the Company issued $175,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering. On February 11, 2002, the Company issued
an additional $10,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through the additional purchase option. The Company received approximately $179,450, net of underwriter discounts. The senior
convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial annual rate of 3.5%, which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.50% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007, August 1, 2012
and August 1, 2016. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears, beginning August 1, 2002. The senior convertible debentures will mature in 2022 and are convertible into shares of the
Company's common stock at a conversion price of $38.87. This conversion price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. On or after February 5, 2005, the Company may redeem for cash
all or part of the debentures that have not been previously converted at the redemption prices set forth in the purchase agreement. Holders may require the Company to repurchase for cash all or part
of their debentures on February 1, 2008, February 1, 2013 or February 1, 2017 at a price equal to 100% of the par value of the debentures plus accrued interest up to but not


including
the date of repurchase. In addition, upon a change in control of the Company occurring on or prior to February 1, 2022, each holder may require the Company to repurchase all or a
portion of such holder's debentures for cash. The Company used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior convertible debenture offering to retire all of the 13.5% senior subordinated notes through
the tender offer discussed below.

During
fiscal 2002, the Company terminated its then existing revolving credit facility, repaid all of its outstanding senior secured term loans and completed a tender offer for all of
its 13.5% senior subordinated notes. The Company recorded a loss of $29,882 due to the payment of premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt ($23,886) and the write-off of deferred financing
costs ($5,129) and issuance discounts ($867).

During
fiscal 2001, the Company used a portion of the proceeds from the 2001 offerings (Note 9) to repay debt. The Company recorded a loss of $8,066, due to the payment of
premiums related to the early extinguishment of debt ($3,841) and the write-off of deferred financing costs ($2,372) and issuance discounts ($1,853).

In
connection with the 2001 acquisition of PAI (Note 2), the Company entered into a $12,000 callable convertible note. The convertible note had a five-year term and bore interest
at 2% per annum. The principal and accrued interest of this convertible note was repaid in fiscal 2002.

Long-term
debt consists of the following:

December 27,


December 28,


Senior convertible debentures, original principal amount of $185,000, convertible into common stock at a price of $38.87, interest payable semi-annually in arrears beginning August 1, 2002, at an initial and current
annual rate of 3.5%, matures February 1, 2022

$

185,000

$

185,000

Unsecured subordinated note, original principal of $6,000 payable in three equal annual installments commencing October 1, 2003 with interest due in arrears, interest based on LIBOR plus 1%

—

6,000

Secured promissory note, principal and interest payable monthly, interest fixed at 10.5%, matures June 2007, secured by real estate

—

2,997

Secured promissory note, principal and interest payable semi-annually, interest fixed at 2.6%, matures March 25, 2006, secured by real estate



Other long-term debt, represents secured and unsecured promissory notes, interest rates between 5.5% and 16.5% at December 27, 2003, maturing between December 2004 and July 2012.



Total debt

185,853

195,281

Less: current portion of long-term debt

(253

)

(2,861

)

Long-term debt

$

185,600

$

192,420


Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 27, 2003 are as follows:

Fiscal Year


$









185,007

Thereafter


Total

$

185,853

Capital Leases

The Company has one capital lease for a building and numerous capital leases for equipment. These leases are capitalized using interest rates considered
appropriate at the inception of each lease. Assets recorded in connection with these capital leases are not material.

Capital
lease obligations amounted to $149 and $537 at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively, with maturities through July 2007 at interest rates
ranging from 4.6% to 9.5%.

9. Shareholders' Equity

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share for the years ended December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 was computed by dividing earnings
available to common shareholders for these periods by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding in the respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable shares. The weighted average
number of common shares outstanding for the years ended December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001 have been adjusted to include common stock equivalents for the
purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share for these periods.

Options
to purchase 3,234,201 shares, 141,624 shares and 715,625 shares were outstanding at December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively,
but were not included in computing diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.

Basic
weighted average shares outstanding for 2003 and 2002 excluded the weighted average impact of 20,000 shares of contingently issuable shares. There was no exclusion of contingently
issuable shares in basic weighted average shares outstanding during 2001. In addition, weighted average shares outstanding for 2003, 2002 and 2001 excluded the weighted average impact of 72,139,
61,669 and 11,500 shares, respectively, of non-vested fixed restricted stock awards.


The
following table illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Numerator:

Net income for purposes of calculating basic earnings per share

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

After-tax equivalent of interest expense on:

3.5% senior convertible debenture

3,982

3,698

—

2% convertible note

—



Income for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share

$

84,133

$

53,838

$

35,498

Denominator:

Weighted average shares outstanding — Basic

45,448,368

44,681,601

40,998,558

Effect of dilutive securities:

3.5% senior convertible debenture

4,759,455

4,419,847

—

Stock options and contingently issued restricted stock

726,291

1,061,243

1,125,034

Warrants

380,691

685,219

1,963,476

2% convertible note

—

8,813

128,315

Weighted average shares outstanding — Diluted

51,314,805

50,856,723

44,215,383

Basic earnings per share

$

1.76

$

1.12

$

0.86

Diluted earnings per share

$

1.64

$

1.06

$

0.80

Retained Earnings

Retained earnings includes approximately $2,000 earnings which is restricted due to statutory requirements in the local jurisdiction of a foreign subsidiary as of
December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002.


Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Foreign

Currency

Translation

Adjustment

Minimum

Pension

Liability

Adjustment

Net

Unrealized

Gain on

Investment

Securities

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Balance at December 29, 2001

$

(13,655

)

$

(2,361

)

$

—

$

(16,016

)

Period change

9,252


—

10,150

Tax benefit

(3,360

)

(341

)

—

(3,701

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

(7,763

)

(1,804

)

—

(9,567

)

Period change

23,460

(518

)


23,052

Tax benefit

(4,445

)


(38

)

(4,231

)

Balance at December 27, 2003

$

11,252

$

(2,070

)

$


$

9,254

Warrants

As part of the recapitalization in 1999, the Company issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a $1,000 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.6
shares of common stock of the Company for total proceeds of $150,000. The Company allocated the $150,000 offering proceeds between the senior subordinated notes ($147,872) and the warrants ($2,128),
based upon the estimated fair value. The portion of the proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital in excess of par in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each warrant
entitles the holder, subject to certain conditions, to purchase 7.6 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $5.19 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment under some
circumstances. Upon exercise, the holders of warrants would be entitled to purchase 383,990 and 558,341 shares of common stock of the Company as of December 27, 2003 and December 28,
2002, respectively. The warrants currently expire on October 1, 2009.

Public Offerings

On July 25, 2001, the Company consummated a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $29.00 per share. The Company issued
2,000,000 shares of common stock and existing shareholders sold 6,000,000 shares. On July 30, 2001, existing shareholders sold an additional 724,700 shares of common stock through the exercise
of the overallotment option. The Company received proceeds of $54,469, net of the underwriters' commission and offering costs.

On
March 21, 2001, the Company consummated a public offering of 8,050,000 shares of common stock at a price of $19.00 per share. The Company issued 3,500,000 shares of common
stock and existing shareholders sold 4,550,000 shares, which included the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option of 1,050,000 shares. The Company received proceeds of $62,222, net of the
underwriters' commission and offering costs.


The
sources and uses of cash from our 2001 public offerings are as follows:

Sources of Funds:

Proceeds from offerings

$

124,500

Uses of Funds:

Repayment of senior subordinated notes*

$

21,403

Repayment of term loan A

11,500

Repayment of term loan B

34,500

Repayment of term loan C

11,500

Repayment of revolving credit facility

17,000

Repayment of convertible note*

9,210

Repayment of other debt and early paydown of capital lease obligations

11,578

Transaction fees and expenses

7,809

$

124,500

*

Includes
issuance discount and premiums on early repayments


10. Income Taxes

An analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments and the related provision for income taxes is
presented below:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

U.S.

$

94,932

$

53,381

$

43,706

Non-U.S.

37,698

31,140

17,707

$

132,630

$

84,521

$

61,413

Income tax provision

Current:

Federal

$

21,806

$

6,774

$

(2,061

)

Foreign

15,048

11,671

7,747

State and local

5,319

2,216

1,396

Total current

42,173

20,661

7,082

Deferred:

Federal

7,685

9,354

16,523

Foreign

—


(1,098

)

State and local

1,205

1,492

1,765

Total deferred

8,890

11,260

17,190

$

51,063

$

31,921

$

24,272

Net
deferred taxes, detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes
and such amounts measured in accordance with tax laws.

December 27,


December 28,


Current:

Accruals

$

3,074

$


Non-current:

Goodwill and other intangibles

62,841

75,666

Net operating loss and credit carryforwards

11,727

14,109

Depreciation and amortization


1,749

Other

(13,774

)

(6,589

)

61,714

84,935

Valuation allowance

(4,051

)

(4,051

)

57,663

80,884

Total deferred taxes

$

60,737

$

81,699


The
Company recorded the balance of the net deferred tax asset on the belief that it is more likely than not that it will be realized. This belief is based upon a review
of all available evidence, including historical operating results, projections of taxable income, and tax planning strategies.

During
2002, in conjunction with the state tax planning initiatives and the completion of the 2001 state income tax returns during the third quarter of 2002, the Company reassessed the
valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets associated with state net operating loss carryforwards. As a result of the reassessment, $473 of the valuation allowance was released and recorded as a
tax benefit.

In
connection with the 1999 recapitalization transaction, the Company elected under Internal Revenue Code Section 338(h)(10) to treat the transaction as a purchase resulting in a
step-up in the tax basis of the underlying assets. The election resulted in the recording of a deferred tax asset in 1999, net of valuation allowance, of approximately $99,506 for the estimated future
tax benefits associated with the increased tax basis of the assets. For financial reporting purposes the benefit was treated as a contribution to capital in 1999. As of December 27, 2003, the
net deferred tax asset pertaining to the election under section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code was $71,642. The Company expects to realize the net benefit of the deferred tax asset
over a 15 year period from the date of the 1999 recapitalization transaction through annual tax deductions which are expected to reduce future tax payments. It is possible that the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) may challenge the availability of the Section 338(h)(10) election to the Company as a result of the Company's reorganization in connection
with the initial public offering in 2000. If the IRS were successful, the expected future tax benefits from the election would not be available and the Company would be required to write off the
related deferred tax assets by recording a non-recurring expense in the results of operations in an amount equal to such deferred tax assets. The Company believes that the reorganization and
liquidating distribution should not have any impact upon the election for federal income tax purposes. However, the IRS may reach a different conclusion.

As
of December 27, 2003, the Company had pre-tax net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes of approximately $32,134 expiring at various dates through 2020.
Additionally, the Company has foreign tax credit carryforwards of $10,538 which will begin to expire in 2004.

Reconciliations
of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Tax at statutory U.S. tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Foreign tax rate differences

1.3

%

1.0

%

2.2

%

Non-deductible goodwill amortization

—

—

0.6

%

State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit

3.2

%

3.1

%

2.4

%

Change in valuation allowance

—

(0.4

)%

—

Other

(1.0

)%

(0.9

)%

(0.7

)%

38.5

%

37.8

%

39.5

%

As
of December 27, 2003, earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $69,649. No provision for U.S. income taxes has been provided thereon.
Upon distribution of


those
earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign countries. It is not practicable to estimate
the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

11. Employee Benefits

The Company sponsors one defined contribution plan and four defined benefit plans. The Company's defined contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories
Employee Savings Plan, qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. It covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby the Company matches a percentage
of employee contributions. The costs associated with the defined contribution plan totaled $2,225, $2,397, and $1,400 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively.

One
of the Company's defined benefit plans, the Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan (Pension Plan), is a qualified, non-contributory plan that covers certain U.S.
employees. Benefits are based on participants' final average monthly compensation and years of service. Participants' rights vest upon completion of five years of service. Effective January 1,
2002, the plan was amended to exclude new participants from joining the plan. Benefit criteria offered to existing participants as of the amendment date did not change.

Under
another defined benefit plan, the Company provides some executives with supplemental retirement benefits. This plan, the Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan
(ESLIRP), is unfunded and non-qualified under the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Securities Act of 1974. The Company has, however, obtained several key-person life insurance policies
with the intention of using their cash surrender value to fund the ESLIRP. Certain portions of participant benefits were transferred from the ESLIRP to the Pension Plan in 2002. At December 27,
2003 and December 28, 2002, the cash surrender value of these policies was $7,298 and $8,218, respectively.

The
Charles River Japan and Charles River Canada defined benefit pension plans are non-contributory plans that cover substantially all employees of those respective companies. Benefits
are based upon length of service and final salary.


The
following table provides reconciliations of the changes in benefit obligations, fair value of plan assets and funded status of the four defined benefit plans.

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Change in benefit obligations

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

40,367

$

30,054

$

11,998

$

11,484

Service cost

2,980

2,213



Interest cost

2,344

1,992



Benefit payments

(975

)

(752

)

(521

)

(503

)

Actuarial loss (gain)

1,161

3.676


1,589

Plan amendments


3,020

—

(1,620

)

Effect of foreign exchange



—

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

46,934

$

40,368

$

13,037

$

11,998

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

35,124

$

39,496

$

—

$

—

Actual return on plan assets

7,208

(4,126

)

—

—

Employer contributions





Benefit payments

(975

)

(752

)

(521

)

(503

)

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

42,040

$

35,124

$

—

$

—

Funded status

Funded status

$

(4,894

)

$

(5,244

)

$

(13,037

)

$

(11,998

)

Unrecognized transition obligation



—

—

Unrecognized prior-service cost

3,366

2,956

(1,296

)

(1,458

)

Unrecognized gain

5,762

9,136

4,970

5,029

Net amount recognized

$

4,238

$

6,867

$

(9,363

)

$

(8,427

)

Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position consist of:

Prepaid benefit cost

$

5,637

$

7,864

$

—

$

—

Accrued benefit cost

(1,432

)

(1,287

)

(12,786

)

(11,196

)

Intangible asset

—


—

—

Accumulated other comprehensive income



3,423

2,769

Net amount recognized

$

4,238

$

6,867

$

(9,363

)

$

(8,427

)

The
accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $46,377 and $39,787 at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively.


Information for defined benefit plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit obligation

$

6,396

$

5,741

$

13,037

$

11,998

Accumulated benefit obligation

5,301

3,951

12,786

11,196

Fair value of plan assets

3,510

3,033

—

—

Components of net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Service cost

$

2,980

$

2,213

$

1,551

$


$


$


Interest cost

2,344

1,992

1,488




Expected return on plan assets

(2,925

)

(3,477

)

(4,295

)

—

—

—

Amortization of transition

obligation




—


—

Amortization of prior service cost



(5

)

(162

)

(162

)

—

Amortization of net loss (gain)



(934

)



—

Net periodic benefit cost (income)

$

3,163

$

1,097

$

(2,110

)

$

1,458

$

1,316

$

1,015

Additional information

Pension Benefits

Supplemental Retirement Benefits





Increase (decrease) in minimum liability included in other comprehensive income, net of tax

$

(136

)

$

(4

)

$


$

(553

)

Assumptions

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Discount rate

5.72

%

5.73

%

6.00

%

6.00

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.53

%

4.58

%

4.75

%

4.75

%


Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Discount rate

5.73

%

6.20

%

6.31

%

6.00

%

6.50

%

6.50

%

Expected long term return on plan assets

8.36

%

9.05

%

9.63

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation increase

4.58

%

4.59

%

4.62

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

The
expected long term rate of return on plan assets was made considering the pension plan's asset mix, historical returns and expected yields on plan assets.

Plan Assets

The Company's pension plan weighted-average asset allocations at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, by asset category are as follows:

Target

Allocation

Pension Benefits




Equity securities


%


%


%

Fixed income


%


%


%

Other


%


%


%

Total


%


%


%

The
Company's investment objective is to obtain the highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk. Fund performances are compared to benchmarks including the S&P
500 Index, Russell 1000 Index, Russell 3000 Index and Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. The Company's Investment Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review plan assets.

The
Company's plan assets did not include any of the Company's common stock at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002.

Cash Flows

The Company expects to contribute $736 to its pension plans in 2004.

12. Stock Compensation Plans

As part of the 1999 recapitalization, the equity investors agreed and committed to establish a stock option plan for the Company for the purpose of providing
significant equity incentives to management. The 1999 Management Incentive Plan (1999 Plan) is administered by the Company's Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The 1999 Plan has a total
of 1,784,384 shares authorized, of which 12,417 shares are available for grant as of December 27, 2003. Awards of 23,000 and 30,000 non-qualified stock options were granted under the 1999 Plan
in 2003 and 2002, respectively. There were no


awards
granted under the 1999 plan in the year ended December 29, 2001. As of December 27, 2003, options to purchase 894,368 shares were exercisable under the 1999 Plan. Options granted
pursuant to the 1999 Plan are subject to a vesting schedule based on three distinct measures. Certain options vest solely with the passage of time (incrementally typically over five years so long as
the optionee continues to be employed by the Company). The remainder of the options vest over time but contain clauses providing for the acceleration of vesting upon the achievement of certain
performance targets or the occurrence of certain liquidity events. All options expire on or before November 3, 2013. The exercise price of all options granted under the 1999 Plan is the fair
market value of the underlying common stock at the time of the grant.

Effective
June 5, 2000, the Board of Directors adopted and the Company's shareholders approved the 2000 Incentive Plan (2000 Plan), which provides for the grant of incentive and
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted or unrestricted common stock and other equity awards. The 2000 Plan has a total of 6,289,000 shares authorized, of which 2,494,583 are
available for grant as of December 27, 2003. Options granted pursuant to the 2000 Plan vest incrementally typically over three years so long as the employee continues to be employed by the
Company. All options granted under the 2000 Plan expire on or before December 1, 2013. The exercise price of all options granted under the 2000 Plan is the fair value of the underlying common
stock at the time of grant. A total of 1,478,200, 1,248,125, and 741,900 stock option awards were made under the 2000 Plan in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, of which 1,098,105 awards were
exercisable as of December 27, 2003.

Under
the Company's 2000 Plan, shares of restricted common stock of the Company may be granted at no cost to officers and key employees. Recipients are entitled to cash dividends and to
vote their respective shares. Restrictions limit the sale or transfer of these shares until they vest, which is typically over a three-year period. Upon issuance of restricted stock awards under the
plan, unearned compensation equivalent to the market value at the measurement date is charged to shareholders' equity and subsequently amortized as compensation expense over the vesting period. The
Company granted 32,300, 54,100 and 11,500 restricted stock awards at no cost and recorded $1,062, $1,740 and $368 as unearned compensation in shareholders' equity for the years ended
December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively. The Company recorded $851, $416 and $52 in compensation expense for these stock awards for the years
ended December 27, 2003, December 28, 2002 and December 29, 2001, respectively. Additionally, the Company issued 30,000 performance-based restricted stock awards at no cost to the
Company's Chief Executive Officer and President during the year ended December 28, 2002. Vesting of these awards is contingent upon the achievement of certain annual earnings per share growth
targets over the vesting period. These shares are accounted for as variable awards and the related unearned compensation and compensation expense are adjusted based on the closing market price of the
Company's common stock until the shares are vested. The Company recorded $1,147 as unearned compensation in 2002 and recorded $251 and $586 in compensation expense in connection with these awards in
2003 and 2002, respectively. The weighted average fair value of all restricted stock awards issued during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $32.87, $32.15 and $31.97, respectively. As of December 27,
2003, a total of 92,139 restricted stock awards were outstanding.

In
conjunction with the 2000 Plan, the Board of Directors adopted, and the Company's shareholders approved, the 2000 Directors Stock Plan (Directors Plan), which provides for the grant
of both automatic and discretionary nonstatutory stock options to non-employee directors. On the day of


each
annual meeting of shareholders, each independent director who served during the prior year will be awarded an option to purchase shares of our common stock (pro-rated if the director did not
serve for the entire preceding year). The Directors Plan has a total of 100,000 shares authorized, of which 4,000 shares are available to be granted as of December 27, 2003. Awards of 24,000
and 12,000 stock options were granted under the Directors Plan in 2002 and 2001, respectively. No stock options were awarded under this plan in 2003. There are currently 96,000 options exercisable
under the Directors Plan. Options granted pursuant to the Directors Plan cliff vest upon the earlier of the first anniversary of the date of grant or the business day prior to the date of the
Company's next annual meeting. All options granted expire on or before May 3, 2007. The exercise price of the options granted under the Directors Plan is the fair market value of the underlying
common stock at the time of grant.


The
following table summarizes stock option activities under the 1999 Plan, the 2000 Plan, and the Directors Plan:

Shares

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Options outstanding as of December 30, 2000

2,246,132

$

5.33 - $27.38

$

7.94

Options granted

753,900

$

25.00 - $35.08

$

31.38

Options exercised

(207,507

)

$

5.33 - $16.00

$

6.66

Options canceled

(43,377

)

$

5.33 - $31.97

$

21.41

Options outstanding as of December 29, 2001

2,749,148

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

14.38

Options granted

1,302,125

$

29.66 - $39.25

$

32.81

Options exercised

(424,516

)

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

7.39

Options canceled

(92,578

)

$

16.00 - $39.00

$

30.81

Options outstanding as of December 28, 2002

3,534,179

$

5.33 - $39.25

$

21.60

Options granted

1,500,875

$

26.25 - $36.47

$

32.78

Options exercised

(375,469

)

$

5.33 - $32.15

$

8.18

Options canceled

(132,593

)

$

16.00 - $39.00

$

32.23

Options outstanding as of December 27, 2003

4,526,992

$

5.33 - $39.25

$

26.13

Options exercisable as of December 29, 2001

1,556,275

$

5.33 - $27.38

$

6.59

Options exercisable as of December 28, 2002

1,679,412

$

5.33 - $35.08

$

10.83

Options exercisable as of December 27, 2003

2,088,473

$

5.33 - $39.25

$

18.47

OPTIONS OUTSTANDING

OPTIONS EXERCISABLE

Range of

Exercise Prices

Outstanding as of

December 27,


Weighted Average

Remaining Contractual

Life (years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise Price

Exercisable as of

December 27,


Weighted

Average

Exercise Price

$  5.00 - $10.00

885,702

5.8

$

5.33

885,702

$

5.33

$10.01 - $20.00

308,640

5.5

$

16.00

308,640

$

16.00

$20.01 - $30.00

80,449

6.1

$

27.53

31,189

$

27.29

$30.01 - $40.00

3,252,201

8.7

$

32.72

862,942

$

32.53

4,526,992

7.8

$

26.13

2,088,473

$

18.47


13. Joint Ventures

The Company holds investments in several joint ventures including Charles River Proteomics, Charles River Mexico and Charles River Japan. These joint ventures are
separate legal entities whose purpose is consistent with the overall operations of the Company and represent geographic and business segment expansions of existing markets. As of December 27,
2003 and December 28, 2002, the financial results of all joint ventures were consolidated in the Company's results as the Company has the ability to exercise control over these entities. The
interests of the outside joint venture partners in these joint ventures have been recorded as minority interests totaling $10,176 and $18,567 at December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002,
respectively.

As
of December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, the Company did not have any unconsolidated joint ventures. The condensed combined statements of income information below for
the year ended December 28, 2002 includes nine months of Charles River Mexico activity due to the consolidation of this majority-owned subsidiary as of September 30, 2002.

Summarized
financial statement information for the unconsolidated joint ventures is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended




Condensed Combined Statements of Income

Net sales

$

—

$

3,291

$

7,697

Operating income

—



Net income

—


1,005

14. Commitments and Contingencies

Operating Leases

The Company has commitments for various operating leases for machinery and equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. Rent expense for all
operating leases was $12,057, $10,448, and $10,045 in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under noncancellable operating leases with initial or
remaining terms of one year or more, consist of the following at December 27, 2003:


$

9,889


7,082


4,797


3,144


2,920

Thereafter

3,462

$

31,294

Insurance

The Company maintains insurance for workers' compensation, auto liability, employee medical and general liability with per claim loss limits up to $250. Annual
aggregate loss limits are $4,344 for


workers
compensation, auto liability and general liability. Related accruals were $5,522 and $5,439 on December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, respectively.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome
of such proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.

15. Related Party Transactions

Ajinomoto Company, Inc. (Ajinomoto) is a minority shareholder in Charles River Japan. Charles River Japan conducts certain business transactions with
Ajinomoto, including the purchase of information technology systems and services, engineering services, product delivery services and the reimbursement of employee compensation. Charles River Japan
incurred expenses related to these services of $4,584, $6,631 and $5,459 during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. As of December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, Charles River Japan had
amounts due to Ajinomoto totaling $1,251 and $1,381, respectively. In addition, Charles River Japan sold products to Ajinomoto totaling $1,011, $890 and $876 during 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
As of December 27, 2003 and December 28, 2002, Charles River Japan had amounts due from Ajinomoto totaling $335 and $481, respectively.

As
more fully described in Note 2, Proteome is a minority shareholder in Charles River Proteomics. During 2002, Charles River Proteomics purchased a hardware platform from
Proteome for $1,633, of which $1,520 was paid in 2002 and the remaining in 2003. During 2003, Charles River Proteomics paid Proteome $190 for training on the hardware platform, borrowed $100 against a
working capital loan from Proteome and purchased laboratory supplies from Proteome. Charles River Proteomics incurred expenses related to the laboratory supplies of $17 during 2003. As of
December 28, 2002, Charles River Proteomics had amounts due to Proteome totaling $113. As of December 27, 2003, Charles River Proteomics had amounts due to Proteome totaling $100 and had
amounts due from Proteome totaling $50.

16. Business Segment and Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," the Company discloses financial and descriptive
information about its reportable operating segments. Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

During
the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company revised its consolidated financial reporting segments to better reflect the manner in which the Company's operating units are managed. The
Company believed the revision was required because in 2003, a number of changes were made to align related businesses, to focus sales force responsibilities and to simplify management structure. The
Company will continue to report two segments, now called research models and services segment (RMS) and development and safety testing segment (DST). The research models business will continue to be
reported in the RMS segment and transgenic services, laboratory services, contract staffing


services
and vaccine support products and services will now be reported in the RMS segment. The Company will report development services, including general and specialty toxicology, pathology
services, interventional and surgical services, biosafety testing and

in vitro

technology in the DST segment. The changes in segment presentation have
no effect on consolidated revenues or net income. Management believes that the new business segments will better reflect results of operations and facilitate investors' understanding of the Company's
business. Segment information for prior years has been restated to reflect this change.

RMS
includes the Company's research model business, research model services and vaccine support services. The research models are principally comprised of genetically and virally
defined, purpose bred rats and mice used in the drug discovery and development process typically required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies. Research model
services assist customers in screening drug candidates faster by providing a variety of services related to genetically-defined research models for in-house research and by implementing efficacy
screening protocols to
improve the customers' drug evaluation process. Vaccine support products are principally pathogen-free fertilized chicken eggs, a critical ingredient for poultry vaccine and some human vaccine
production. DST includes development services and

in vitro

technology services. Development services enable customers to accelerate their drug discovery
and development process. These services are FDA compliant services that aid customers in drug safety assessment, biotech safety testing and medical device testing.

In
vitro

technology services are comprised of non-animal, or

in vitro,

products and services for testing the safety of drugs and
devices.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by business segment for 2003, 2002 and 2001. Net sales represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in
either provision of research models and services or development and safety testing. Long lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles and other long lived assets.




Research Models and Services

Net sales

$

405,121

$

353,915

$

277,379

Gross margin

166,860

141,684

108,699

Operating income

126,388

102,730

71,630

Total assets

559,432

464,798

153,133

Long-lived assets

189,502

166,308

393,216

Depreciation and amortization

16,371

13,404

12,556

Capital expenditures

22,984

23,343

23,373

Development and Safety Testing

Net sales

$

208,602

$

200,714

$

188,251

Gross margin

66,805

67,299

58,552

Operating income

27,651

34,085

25,891

Total assets

240,122

236,546

120,294

Long-lived assets

177,561

176,060

178,146

Depreciation and amortization

13,193

10,582

14,619

Capital expenditures

9,720

14,200

13,033


A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Total segment operating income

$

154,039

$

136,815

$

97,521

Unallocated corporate overhead

(15,486

)

(14,549

)

(7,238

)

Consolidated operating income

$

138,553

$

122,266

$

90,283

A
summary of unallocated corporate overhead consists of the following:

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Restricted stock compensation expense

$

1,102

$

1,002

$


U.S. pension expense (income)

3,591

1,677

(1,510

)

Executive officers' salary and bonus

3,095

2,894

2,371

Other general unallocated corporate expenses

7,698

8,976

6,325

$

15,486

$

14,549

$

7,238

Other
general unallocated corporate expenses consist of various costs including those associated with senior executive salaries and departments such as corporate accounting, legal and
investor relations.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by geographic regions for 2003, 2002 and 2001. Included in the other non-U.S. category below are the Company's
operations located in Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Spain and Sweden. Sales to unaffiliated customers
represent net sales originating in entities physically located in the identified geographic area. Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles, and other
long-lived assets.

U.S.

France

Japan

Other Non

U.S.

Consolidated


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

424,578

$

45,636

$

52,617

$

90,892

$

613,723

Long-lived assets

246,630

16,194

43,867

60,372

367,063


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

402,424

$

34,769

$

48,089

$

69,347

$

554,629

Long-lived assets

242,397

12,162

37,806

50,003

342,368


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

338,648

$

31,427

$

44,751

$

50,804

$

465,630

Long-lived assets

211,340

10,589

35,029

16,469

273,427


17. Subsequent Events

On January 8, 2004, the Company acquired River Valley Farms, a privately-held medical device contract research business, which will be reported in our DST
segment. Consideration of approximately $17,276 was paid with respect to this acquisition. The Company is in the process of determining the purchase price allocation.

In
the first quarter of 2004, the Company began a reorganization of its European operations. The purpose of the reorganization is to streamline the corporate legal structure in order to
improve operating efficiency and cash management, facilitate acquisitions and provide tax benefits. The reorganization, which will not involve reductions of personnel or facility closures, is expected
to result in a one-time, non-cash charge to earnings in the first quarter of 2004 of approximately $7,900 primarily due to the write-off of a deferred tax asset.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Operating income

$

—

$

—

$

—

Interest income


13,941

—

Interest expense

(7,478

)

(6,981

)

—

Income (loss) before income taxes

(7,456

)

6,960

—

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

(3,072

)

2,840

—

Income (loss) before earnings from equity investments

(4,384

)

4,120

—

Earnings from equity investments

84,535

46,012

35,407

Net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

See
Notes to Condensed Parent Company Financial Statements.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

(dollars in thousands)

December 27,


December 28,


Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

25,000

$

5,577

Deferred tax asset

3,693

4,406

Deferred financing costs

4,164

5,185

Investment in equity accounted subsidiaries

619,428

529,888

Total assets

$

652,285

$

545,056

Liabilities and shareholders' equity

Current liabilities

Accrued interest

$

2,662

$

2,680

Long term debt

185,000

185,000

Total liabilities

187,662

187,680

Shareholder's equity

Common stock



Capital in excess of par value

609,781

601,728

Retained earnings (deficit)

(152,885

)

(233,036

)

Unearned compensation

(1,985

)

(2,201

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

9,254

(9,567

)

Total shareholders' equity

464,623

357,376

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

652,285

$

545,056

See
Notes to Condensed Parent Company Financial Statements.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 28,


December 29,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income

$

80,151

$

50,132

$

35,407

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts

1,021


—

Earnings from equity investments

(84,535

)

(46,012

)

(35,407

)

Deferred income taxes

(3,072

)

2,840

—

Windfall tax benefit from exercises of employee stock options

3,197

4,669

1,891

Change in accrued interest

(18

)

2,680

—

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

(3,256

)

15,247

1,891

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from long term debt

—

185,000

—

Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of transaction fees

—

—

116,691

Payments received from officers

—



Proceeds from exercises of employee stock options

3,069

3,137

1,380

Proceeds from exercises of warrants


2,136


Payments on deferred financing costs

—

(6,123

)

—

Dividends from equity accounted subsidiaries

26,000

—

—

Additional investment in equity accounted subsidiaries

(7,297

)

(194,161

)

(121,424

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

22,679

(9,670

)

(1,891

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

19,423

5,577

—

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

5,577

—

—

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

25,000

$

5,577

$

—

See
Notes to Condensed Parent Company Financial Statements


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

These condensed parent company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Rule 12-04, Schedule 1 of Regulation S-X, as the
restricted net assets of Charles River Laboratories, Inc. exceed 25% of the consolidated net assets of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (the Parent Company). In order to
repay its obligations, the Parent Company is dependent upon either dividends from Charles River Laboratories, Inc., which are restricted by terms contained in the agreement governing the
revolving credit facility (Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements), or through a refinancing or equity transaction.

The
Parent Company's 100% investment in Charles River Laboratories, Inc. has been recorded using the equity basis of accounting in the accompanying condensed parent company
financial statements. During 2003, Charles River Laboratories, Inc. obtained a waiver to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The Parent Company received a $26,000 dividend payment from Charles
River Laboratories, Inc. during 2003. There were no cash dividends paid to the Parent Company by Charles River Laboratories, Inc. during the fiscal years ended December 28, 2002
and December 29, 2001.

On
July 25, 2001, the Parent Company consummated a public offering of 8,000,000 shares of common stock at a price of $29.00 per share. The Parent Company issued 2,000,000 shares
of common stock and existing shareholders sold 6,000,000 shares. On July 30, 2001, existing shareholders sold an additional 724,700 shares of common stock through the exercise of the
overallotment option. The Parent Company received proceeds of $54,469, net of the underwriters' commission and offering costs.

On
March 21, 2001, the Parent Company consummated a public offering of 8,050,000 shares of common stock at a price of $19.00 per share. The Parent Company issued 3,500,000 shares
of common stock and existing shareholders sold 4,550,000 shares, which included the exercise of the underwriters' overallotment option of 1,050,000 shares. The Parent Company received proceeds of
$62,222, net of the underwriters' commission and offering costs.

On
January 24, 2002, the Parent Company issued $175,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through a private placement offering. On February 11, 2002, the Parent
Company issued an additional $10,000 par value of senior convertible debentures through the additional purchase option. The Parent Company received approximately $179,450, net of underwriter
discounts. The senior convertible debentures accrue interest at an initial annual rate of 3.5%, which will be reset (but not below the initial rate of 3.50% or above 5.25%) on August 1, 2007,
August 1, 2012 and August 1, 2016. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears, beginning August 1, 2002. The senior convertible debentures will mature in 2022 and are
convertible into shares of the Parent Company's common stock at a conversion price of $38.87. This conversion price is subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. On or after February 5,
2005, the Parent Company may redeem for cash all or part of the debentures that have not been previously converted at the redemption prices set forth in the purchase agreement. Holders may require the
Parent Company to repurchase for cash all or part of their debentures on February 1, 2008, February 1, 2013 or February 1, 2017 at a price equal to 100% of the par value of the
debentures plus accrued interest up to but not including the date of repurchase. In addition, upon a change in control of the Parent Company occurring on or prior to February 1, 2022, each
holder may require the Parent Company to repurchase all or a portion of such holder's debentures for cash.


FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(dollars in thousands)

Income Tax Valuation Allowance

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

4,524

Provisions

—

Releases

—

Balance at December 29, 2001

4,524

Provisions

—

Releases

(473

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

4,051

Provisions

—

Releases

—

Balance at December 27, 2003

$

4,051

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

Balance at December 30, 2000

$

1,036

Provisions

1,550

Recoveries/Write-offs

(467

)

Balance at December 29, 2001

2,119

Provisions

(25

)

Recoveries/Write-offs

(554

)

Balance at December 28, 2002

1,540

Provisions

1,494

Recoveries/Write-offs

(1,390

)

Balance at December 27, 2003

$

1,644


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Year ended December 27, 2003

Net sales

$

152,125

$

154,364

$

151,194

$

156,040

Gross profit

57,982

59,585

56,492

59,606

Operating income

33,848

35,006

34,256

35,443

Net income

19,354

20,561

19,591

20,645

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

0.43

$

0.45

$

0.43

$

0.45

Diluted

$

0.40

$

0.42

$

0.40

$

0.42

Year ended December 28, 2002

Net sales

$

133,820

$

136,501

$

141,364

$

142,944

Gross profit

49,959

52,400

53,475

53,149

Operating income

28,410

30,382

32,519

30,955

Net income (loss)

(2,232

)

16,328

18,531

17,505

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

$

(0.05

)

$

0.37

$

0.41

$

0.39

Diluted

$

(0.03

)

$

0.34

$

0.38

$

0.36

Year ended December 29, 2001

Net sales

$

99,031

$

116,820

$

123,685

$

126,094

Gross profit

36,662

43,770

43,211

43,608

Operating income

19,374

24,492

24,012

22,405

Net income

6,951

9,018

10,521

8,917

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

0.19

$

0.22

$

0.24

$

0.20

Diluted

$

0.17

$

0.21

$

0.23

$

0.19

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Based on their evaluation, required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15, the
Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) under the
Exchange Act) are effective as of December 27, 2003 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.

There
were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of the Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the quarter ended December 27, 2003 that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control
over financial reporting.


PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

A.

Directors
and Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The
information required by this Item regarding the directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the Company's officers and directors will be
included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Management" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

B.

Executive
Officers of the Company

The
information required by this Item regarding the executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I of this Form 10-K under the heading "Supplementary Item.
Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K."

C.

Audit
Committee Financial Expert

The
information required by this Item regarding the audit committee of the Board of Directors and financial experts will be included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the section
captioned "Audit Committee Financial Expert" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

D.

Code
of Ethics

The
Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of its employees and directors, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions. The Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its website. The Company will provide to any person,
without charge, a copy of its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by requesting a copy from the Secretary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc., 251 Ballardvale St., Wilmington, MA 01887.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Compensation of Directors," "Executive
Compensation" and "Report of Compensation Committee" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management" and "Equity Compensation Plan Information" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2004 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Statement of Fees Paid to Independent Accountants"
and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

Item 15(a)(1) and (2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules.

See "Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statements Schedules" at Item 8 to this Form 10-K. Other financial statement schedules have
not been included because they are not applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and Item 15(c) Exhibits.

The exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits. The Company has
identified in the Exhibit Index each management contract and compensation plan filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K in response to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

Item 15(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

On October 30, 2003, the Company furnished a current report on Form 8-K under Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition) containing a
copy of an earnings press release.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 10, 2004

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
below and on the dates indicated.

Signatures

Title

Date

By:

/s/

JAMES C. FOSTER

James C. Foster

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

ROBERT CAWTHORN

Robert Cawthorn

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

STEPHEN D. CHUBB

Stephen D. Chubb

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

GEORGE E. MASSARO

George E. Massaro

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

GEORGE M. MILNE

George M. Milne

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

DOUGLAS E. ROGERS

Douglas E. Rogers

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

SAMUEL O. THIER

Samuel O. Thier

Director

March 10, 2004

By:

/s/

WILLIAM H. WALTRIP

William H. Waltrip

Director

March 10, 2004


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Index

Description

2.1

Recapitalization Agreement, dated as of July 25, 1999, among Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (formerly known as Endosafe, Inc.), Bausch & Lomb Incorporated, and other
parties listed therein (Filed as Exhibit 2.1). (3)

2.2

Amendment No. 1 to Recapitalization Agreement, dated as of September 29, 1999, by Bausch & Lomb Incorporated and CRL Acquisition LLC (Filed as Exhibit 2.2). (3)

2.3

Agreement and Plan of Reorganization, dated as of June 6, 2000, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., CRL Acquisition LLC and B&L CRL, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 2.3). (2)

2.4

Stock Purchase Agreement among Pathology Associates International Corporation, Science Applications International Corp., and Charles River Laboratories, Inc., dated December 21, 2000 (filed as Exhibit 2.4).
(1)

2.5

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 6, 2001, among Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Primedica Corporation, TSI Corporation and Genzyme Transgenics Corporation (Filed as Exhibit 2.5). (1)

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1). (2)

3.2

By-laws of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2). (2)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock, $0.01 per value per share (Filed as Exhibit 4.1). (2)

4.2

Indenture, dated as of January 24, 2002, between Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee (Filed as Exhibit 4.8). (9)

4.3

Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 17, 2002, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Lehman Brothers Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., SG Cowen
Securities Corporation, U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., Thomas Weisel Partners LLC, Investec PMG Capital Corp. and Jefferies & Company, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 4.9). (9)

10.1

Joint Venture Agreement between Ajinomoto Co., Inc. and Charles River Breeding Laboratories, Inc., dated June 24, 1981, and ancillary agreements, amendments and addenda (Filed as Exhibit 10.6). (4)

10.2

Supply Agreement between Merck & Co., Inc. and Charles River Laboratories, Inc., dated September 30, 1994 (Filed as Exhibit 10.7). (3)

10.3

Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement among Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and SBI Holdings, Inc. and its stockholders, dated September 4, 1999 (Filed as Exhibit 10.8). (3)

10.4

Ground Lease between HIC Associates (Lessor) and Charles River Laboratories, Inc. (Lessee) dated June 5, 1992; Real Estate Lease between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. (Landlord) and Charles River Partners L.P. (Tenant)
dated December 22, 1993; and Assignment and Assumption Agreement between Charles River Partners, L.P. (Assignor) and Wilmington Partners L.P. (Assignees) dated December 22, 1993 (Filed as Exhibit 10.9). (3)

10.5

Amended and Restated Distribution Agreement among Charles River BRF, Inc., Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Bioculture Mauritius Ltd. and Marry Ann and Owen Griffiths, dated December 23, 1997 (Filed as Exhibit 10.10).
(3)

10.6

Supply Agreement between Sierra Biomedical, Inc. and Scientific Resources International, Ltd., dated March 18, 1997 (Filed as Exhibit 10.11). (3)

10.7

Severance Agreement between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and Real H. Renaud, dated January 20, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10.10). (2)+

10.8

1999 Charles River Laboratories Officer Separation Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.11). (2)+


10.9

Form of Agreement and Release among Bausch & Lomb, Incorporated, Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and the named executive officers, dated as of July 25, 1999 (Filed as Exhibit 10.12). (2)+

10.10

1999 Management Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.1). (5)+

10.11*

2000 Incentive Plan, as amended May 2004.

10.12

Amendment No. 1 to the 2000 Incentive Plan of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., dated May 8, 2001 (Filed as Exhibit 99.1). (7)

10.13

2000 Directors Stock Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.15). (2)+ Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. 2000 Incentive Plan Inland Revenue Approved Rules for UK Employees (Filed as Exhibit 99.1). (8)

10.14

Form of Indemnification Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.16). (2)+

10.15*

Form of Change in Control Agreement.+

10.16*

Form of Change in Control Agreement.+

21.1*

Subsidiaries of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.

23.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

31.2*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

32.1*

Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

32.2*

Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

(1)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-55670), as amended, filed February 15, 2001.

(2)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524), as amended, filed
June 23, 2000.

(3)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor in interest to the Company, on
Form S-1 (File No. 333-92383), as amended, filed December 8, 1999.

(4)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor in interest to the Company, on
Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524) filed April 25, 2000.

(5)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Charles River Laboratories Holdings, Inc., predecessor in interest to the Company,
filed May 9, 2000.

(6)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed August 10, 2001.

(7)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 15, 2001.

(8)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed November 5, 2001.

(9)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 27, 2001.

(10)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed May 9, 2002.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

*

Filed
herewith.

Where
a document is incorporated by reference from a previous filing, the Exhibit number of the document in that previous filing is indicated in parentheses after the
description of such document.


QuickLinks


PART I

Item 1. Business

Item 2. Properties

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Report of Independent Auditors

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF INCOME (dollars in thousands)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (dollars in thousands)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

NOTES TO CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT INDEX