10-K


a2182759z10-k.htm

10-K

QuickLinks

-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 29, 2007

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD
FROM                                    TO

Commission File No. 001-15943

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

06-1397316

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

251 Ballardvale Street

Wilmington, Massachusetts


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

(Zip Code)

(Registrant's
telephone number, including area code):

(781) 222-6000

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
Accelerated Filer

ý

Accelerated Filer

o

Non-accelerated
Filer

o

Smaller reporting company

o

(Do
not check if smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes

o

No

ý

On June 30, 2007, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately
$3,461,039,647.

As
of February 12, 2008, there were outstanding 68,176,166 shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 8, 2008, which will be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 29, 2007, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. With the exception of the portions of the 2008 Proxy Statement expressly incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference, such document
shall not be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


Item

Page

PART I


Business


1A

Risk Factors


1B

Unresolved Staff Comments



Properties



Legal Proceedings



Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of Regulation S-K


PART II


Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Selected Consolidated Financial Data



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


9A

Controls and Procedures


9B

Other Information


PART III


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Executive Compensation



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions



Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV


Exhibits


PART I

Item 1.    Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Charles River operates and the beliefs and
assumptions of our management. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "target," "goal," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "will," "likely," "may," "designed," "would,"
"future," "can," "could" and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to historical matters are intended to identify such
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of Charles River and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future demand for drug discovery and development products and services, including the outsourcing of these services
and other cost reduction activities by our customers; future actions by our management; the outcome of contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of
generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of our
revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; the timing of the opening of new and expanded facilities; our expectations with respect to sales growth, efficiency
improvements and operating synergies (including the impact of specific actions intended to cause related improvements); changes in our expectations regarding future stock option, restricted stock,
performance awards and other equity grants to employees and directors; changes in our expectations regarding our stock repurchases; assessing (or changing our assessment of) our tax positions for
financial statement
purposes; and our cash flow and liquidity. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they are predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to
predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or in the case of statements incorporated by reference, on the date of the document incorporated by reference. Factors that might cause or
contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the section entitled "Risks Related to Our Business and Industry," the
section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in our press releases and other financial filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks
may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report not to occur.

Corporate History

Charles River has been operating since 1947 and during that time, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we completed the initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. Our stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol "CRL "and is included in the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400, 1000 and Composite 1500 Indices, the Dow Jones US Biotechnology Index, the NYSE Composite Index and
the NYSE Healthcare Sector Index, among others. We are headquartered in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone
number at that location is (781) 222-6000. Our Internet site is

www.criver.com

. Material contained on our Internet site is not
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to "Charles River," "we," "us" or "our" refer
to Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.


This
Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of
our Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (

http://www.sec.gov

) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the drug discovery and development process, including research models and associated services, and
outsourced preclinical services. As the drug development process continues to require the steadily increasing investment of time and money—various studies and reports estimate it takes
between 10-15 years, between $800 million and $1 billion, and exploration of more than 10,000 drug compounds to produce a single FDA approved drug—Charles
River is in the position of being able to leverage our expertise in an efficient and cost-effective way to aid our customers in bringing their drugs to market faster.

We
currently have two reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS) (which includes Phase I clinical services). We provide the animal
research models required in research and development of new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in this business for 60 years. We have built upon our core competency of laboratory animal
medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of products and services. Our wide array of tools and services enables our customers to reduce costs,
increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. Our customer base includes global pharmaceutical companies, a wide range of biotechnology companies,
as well as government agencies, leading hospitals and academic institutions around the world. We currently operate approximately 60 facilities, including our production and warehousing facilities, in
15 countries worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many of the challenges of early-stage life
sciences research. In 2007, our net sales from continuing operations were $1.23 billion and our operating income from continuing operations was $227.2 million.

In
recent years, we have completed a number of acquisitions, primarily involving our PCS business, that broadened our present portfolio of high-end services to include
general toxicology, specialty toxicology and Phase I clinical services. In addition, these acquisitions:

•

significantly
expanded our overall corporate size;

•

significantly
increased the breadth of the products and services that we offer; and

•

expanded
and strengthened our global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical research and development services.

These
acquisitions have been critical in our continuing mission to support our key pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, who are increasingly seeking full service, global partners
to whom they can outsource more of their preclinical research and development efforts. By some estimates, the outsourced drug development services markets in which we participate (exclusive of
research models and associated services, but including preclinical and Phase I clinical services) is in excess of $4.6 billion annually. It is thought that this represents only
20-25% of all of the drug development work currently performed, and is expected to increase over time as outsourcing trends continue.

In
2007, much of our focus has been dedicated towards positioning ourselves to take advantage of long-term opportunities to support our clients as they increasingly outsource
drug development services, as evidenced by our capacity expansion program. The current program to replace our existing PCS facilities in Massachusetts and Nevada with new,
state-of-the-art facilities has been underway for two


years
and, in 2007, we opened the first of those sites in Massachusetts. We plan to open the new preclinical site in Nevada on schedule in 2008, followed by additional preclinical capacity in Canada,
Scotland, and Ohio in 2009. We have commenced construction of a new facility in China, due to open in late 2008, which we hope will enable us to be the partner of choice for our global pharmaceutical
customers as they establish and expand research and development activities in China. In addition, in 2007 we expanded capacity in our California RMS facility and broke ground on a new RMS facility in
Maryland. The Maryland facility is being constructed in part to support the 10-year agreement with the National Cancer Institute to manage its research model colonies. This agreement is
the first of its kind where the colonies will be managed in Charles River's facilities under a Charles River Dedicated Resources™ agreement, or CRDR™. These flexible partnering
arrangements, which are generally for multiple years and involve financial commitments, are tailored to individual client's requirements and are used in both the RMS and PCS business segments.

Research Models and Services (RMS).

Charles River has been supplying research models to the drug development industry since
1947. With approximately 150 different strains, we continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and sale of research models, principally genetically and virally defined
purpose-bred rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our customers in supporting the use of research models in drug development. With
multiple facilities located on three continents (North America, Europe and Asia (Japan)), we maintain production centers, including a total of approximately 170 barrier rooms or isolator facilities
strategically located near our customers. In 2007, RMS accounted for 47% of our total net sales and approximately 41% of our employees including approximately 130 science professionals with advanced
scientific degrees.

Our
RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research Models, (2) Research Model Services and (3) other related products and services.

Research Models.

A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and
sale of research models, principally purpose-bred rats, mice and other rodents for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous customers around the world, including most
pharmaceutical companies, a broad range of biotechnology companies, many government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions. Our research models include both standard strains and
disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which are increasingly in demand as early-stage research tools. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign
regulatory bodies typically require the safety and efficacy of new drug candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential
part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our
rodent species have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality
in the breeding process. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments which are designed to ensure that the animals are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other
contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our barrier room production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models
worldwide.

Our
small research models include:

•

outbred
animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

•

inbred
animals, which are genetically identical;

•

hybrid
animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

•

spontaneous
mutant animals, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and


•

other
genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and transgenic animals.

We
also offer new and proprietary, disease-specific rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are presently
focusing our disease model program on four areas of research: cardiovascular, metabolic, renal and oncology which, in addition to providing overlapping disease modalities that support multiple uses of
certain models, also permits us to concentrate on focused sales and marketing efforts.

We
believe that over the next several years, many new genetically engineered models will be developed and used in biomedical research, such as models with modified genetic material,
knock-out models with one or more disabled genes, and transgenic models that incorporate or exclude a particular gene. These more highly defined and characterized models will allow
researchers to further focus their investigations into disease conditions and potential new therapies or interventions. We intend to build upon our position as a leader in this field to expand our
presence in this market for higher-value research models.

In
addition to our small research models, we also are a premier provider of high-quality purpose-bred, specific pathogen-free (SPF) or disease free,
large research models to the biomedical research community, principally for use in their drug development and testing studies.

Research Model Services.

RMS also offers a variety of services, described below, designed to assist
our customers in screening drug candidates faster, including those which are related to genetically defined research models for in-house research, as well as those services designed to
implement efficacy screening protocols to improve the customer's drug evaluation process. These services address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource the
non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business. We currently offer four
major categories of research models services—transgenic services, research animal diagnostics, consulting and staffing services, and discovery services.

Transgenic Services.

In this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining, improving, breeding
and testing research models purchased or created by our customers for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a transgenic model can be a critical scientific event, it is only the first
step in the discovery process. Productive utilization of genetically engineered research models requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide breeding expertise, model
characterization (including genotyping and phenotyping) and colony development, quarantine, embryo cryopreservation, embryo transfer and health and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to
over 200 laboratories around the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities and maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally occurring or
experimentally manipulated research models for our customers.

Research animal diagnostics.

We assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the research
models used in their research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model business.
Depending upon a customer's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities. We believe
that the continued growth in model development and characterization and utilization of specific disease models and genetically engineered models will drive our future growth as the reference
laboratory of choice for health and genetic testing of laboratory animals.

Discovery Services.

Augmenting our traditional model production and transgenic services described above, we believe there are
emerging opportunities to assist our customers in speeding the development process by providing services that prepare models to be used in studies immediately upon arrival at the customer's facility,
rather than requiring time and effort on the part of the customer to prepare the models. As a result of our veterinary medicine expertise, we are well positioned to provide


such
services, which include surgical procedures, feeding and aging, and biological and chemical modification.

Consulting and Staffing Services.

Building upon our core capability as the leading provider of high-quality
research models, we manage animal care operations (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) on behalf of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial
customers. Demand for our services results from the growing trend by these large institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not critical to the core scientific innovation
process, or for which they do not maintain the necessary resources in-house. In addition, we believe that our expertise in animal care and facility operations enhances the productivity and
quality of our customers' animal care and use programs.

Other Related Research Model Products and Services.

We also offer two other categories of products
and services within RMS—vaccine support and

in vitro

technology products.

Vaccine Support.

We are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF, chickens and fertile
chicken eggs. SPF chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained "bioreactors" for the manufacture of live viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material
primarily in poultry, as well as human vaccine, applications. The production of SPF eggs is done under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide
presence that includes several SPF egg production facilities in the United States, a joint venture in Mexico and contracted production capabilities in Hungary. We also operate a specialized avian
laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house testing and support services to our customers and produces poultry diagnostics.

In Vitro Technology.

Our

in vitro

business provides non-animal,
or

in vitro,

methods for lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs for endotoxin contamination. We are committed to being the leader
in providing our customers with

in vitro

alternatives as these methods become scientifically validated and commercially feasible, and toward that goal
we work with and support the European Center for Validation of Alternative Methods in these efforts. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus
amebocyte lysate (LAL). The LAL test is the first and only major FDA-validated

in vitro

alternative to an animal
model test for endotoxin detection in pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturing. The process of extracting blood is generally not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their
natural ocean environment. Our

in vitro

technology business produces and distributes endotoxin testing kits, reagents, software, accessories,
instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We are a market leader in endotoxin testing, which is used for FDA-required quality control
testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by which they are manufactured.

We
have developed the next generation of the endotoxin testing platform, known as the Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS). The PTS is a portable
endotoxin testing platform which allows endotoxin testing in the field, affording researchers accurate and timely results. In 2006, we received FDA approval for the sale and marketing of the PTS
system for FDA-required lot release endotoxin testing. The PTS can also be used for non-regulated applications, ranging from drug research and development to environmental
monitoring. As an example, a modified version of the PTS was launched into space aboard the space shuttle Discovery and reached the International Space Station as part of NASA's ongoing efforts to
conduct biological research in space. The PTS system has recently expanded into markets such as cell transplant and dialysis clinics, and, especially, nuclear pharmacies, where PTS is being adopted
for lot release testing of nuclear medicines in response to pending FDA regulations. We are anticipating other opportunities developing as our customers react to the FDA's Process Analytical
Technology (PAT) Initiative. In addition, over the next few years we look towards exploring other applications such as the environmental contaminant markets (pesticides and hazardous materials) and
clinical diagnostics (infectious disease at point of care).


Preclinical Services (PCS)

Our PCS customers are principally engaged in the

discovery

and

development

of new drugs,
devices and therapies.

Discovery

represents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead compound
for future drug development. Discovery activities typically last anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.

Development

activities, which follow, and which can take up to seven years, are directed at demonstrating the

safety,
tolerability

and

clinical efficacy

of the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a
drug candidate is tested

in vitro

(typically on a cellular or subcellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) and

in vivo

(in research
models) to support planned or on-going human trials. With our focus on early-stage drug development support, we view clinical Phase I studies as a strategic component of our
preclinical service offerings.

The
development services portion of our PCS business enables our customers to outsource their critical, regulatory-required drug and toxicology disposition activities to us. The demand
for these services was historically driven by preclinical development programs of biotechnology companies, which traditionally have been outsourced, and also by the selective outsourcing strategy of
larger global pharmaceutical companies. The necessary significant investments in personnel, facilities and other capital resources required in order to efficiently conduct and perform these activities
means that global pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies are frequently choosing to outsource their development activities, allowing them to focus on their core competencies of
innovation and early drug discovery (for biotechnology companies) and promotion and market distribution (for pharmaceutical companies). Large pharmaceutical companies, in particular, are increasingly
closing facilities and reducing staff, thus we believe the demand for our preclinical service offerings will continue to strengthen.

We
are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services worldwide and offer particular expertise in the design, execution and reporting of general and specialty toxicology
studies, especially those dealing with innovative therapies and biologicals. We currently provide preclinical services at multiple facilities located in the United States, Canada and Europe, and are
anticipating being able to offer expanded PCS services in China in the second half of 2008. As a result of increasing demand for outsourced preclinical services, we have recently conducted or are
presently conducting significant facilities expansions at our preclinical facilities—one in Massachusetts which opened in 2007 and another in Nevada which opened in early 2008, as well as
expansions at our Canada, Ohio, Pennsylvania (biopharmaceutical services) and Scotland PCS facilities. The Massachusetts and Nevada facilities, when fully built out, will more than double the size of
the pre-existing operations. Our PCS segment represented 53% of our total net sales in 2007 and employed 56% of our employees including approximately 450 science professionals with advanced scientific
degrees.

We
currently offer the following preclinical services, in which we include both

in vivo

and

in
vitro

studies, supportive laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product development from inception to proof of concept.


Toxicology.

Toxicology is one of our core preclinical competencies and a competitive strength. Once a
lead molecule is selected, the stage of preclinical development begins where appropriate toxicology studies are conducted to support initial clinical trials. These studies are performed on animal
models to understand the toxic effects that a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods, and focus on safety and potential harmful effects. Our toxicology
services feature:

•

all
the standard protocols for general toxicity testing (genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute, subacute, chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity potential) required for
regulatory submissions supporting "first-in-human" to "first-on-the-market" strategies;

•

expertise
in specialty routes of administration and modes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal administration, and inhalation), which are important not
only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals, but also for safety testing of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives, agrochemicals, biocides, nutraceuticals, animal health products
and other materials;

•

market-leading
expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies (in support of larger scale, human clinical trials);

•

services
in important specialty areas such as ocular, bone, juvenile/neonatal, and immuno toxicology as well as photobiology and dermal testing;

•

work
in all major therapeutic areas;

•

study
design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience in support of drug development; and

•

a
strong history of aiding our sponsors in reaching their regulatory or internal milestones for safety testing, including studies addressing stem cell therapies, DNA
vaccines, recombinant proteins, standard small molecules and medical devices.

Our
toxicology facilities operate in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) as required by the FDA as well as other international regulatory bodies. Our facilities are regularly inspected by
U.S. and other GLP compliance monitoring authorities, as well as our own and our customers' Quality Assurance departments.

Pathology Services.

In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize
clinical and anatomic pathologic change is critical in determining the safety of a new compound. We employ a large number of highly trained pathologists who use
state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential compound-related changes within tissues, fluids and cells, as well as at the molecular level. Pathology support is
critical for regulatory driven safety studies, but also for specialized investigative studies, discovery support, and stand-alone immunohistochemistry evaluations for monoclonal antibodies. Key
"go/no-go" decisions regarding continued product development are typically dependent on the identification, characterization and evaluation of gross and microscopic pathology findings we
perform for our clients.

Bioanalysis, Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.

In support of preclinical drug safety testing,
our customers are required to demonstrate ample drug exposure, stability in the collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites, and with recombinant
proteins and peptides, the presence of anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated analytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of drug
classes (including oligonucleotide and inhibitory RNAs). In the event that the sample analysis for preclinical study support translates to opportunities to analyze clinical samples for the same drug
once human testing begins, we have opportunities to capture the benefits of bridging preclinical bioanalysis with later clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the
data to provide information on the pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the exposure to the drug, as well as


complete
evaluation of the distribution of the drug or metabolites by radio-labeled techniques. Pharmacokinetics refers to understanding what the body does to a drug or compound once administered,
including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized, and excreted (ADME); toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied to potential toxic
substances. Our clients require these studies for the full preclinical assessment of the disposition of the drug the results of which are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the
compound.

Discovery Support.

At the earliest stages of lead compound identification, our scientists are engaged
in evaluating the activity and efficacy of drug candidates in several important therapeutic areas, including:

•

oncology
(through our tumor xenograft models);

•

asthma
(through our specialized disease model colonies);

•

bone
disease (using our state-of-the-art imaging and pathology capabilities);

•

ophthalmology
(using our models of neovascularization);

•

general
cardiovascular and device testing (using our surgical models); and

•

early
drug formulation and bioanalysis support and method development.

We
also offer lead optimization strategies including early pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early integrative drug selection criteria.

Biopharmaceutical Services.

We provide specialized testing, characterization and small scale manufacturing services that are frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and biotechnology
developers. We also consult with customers on process development, validation, manufacturing scale-up and biological testing. We also grow, store and characterize client cell lines for
later development and manufacture of therapeutic proteins.

Biopharmaceutical
testing and characterization services allow customers to confirm that biologically produced drug candidates are correctly identified and stable and are produced
consistently and essentially contaminant free. This testing is required by the FDA and other global regulatory authorities to obtain new drug approval, maintain a government licensed manufacturing
facility and release approved therapeutic products for use in patients.

Phase I Trials in Healthy, Normal and Special Populations

Phase I clinical trials are usually short duration studies conducted on a small number (20-100) of healthy human subjects (although special
populations can be used) under highly controlled conditions. Testing is usually performed where trial participants can be closely monitored in a secure environment, such as at a
clinic-type facility or hospital.

Our
clinical services capabilities encompass two premier, internationally recognized Phase I clinics—one in Europe (Edinburgh, Scotland) and the other in North America
(Tacoma, Washington), with a combined capacity of over 300 beds. We focus our clinical services business on high-end clinical pharmacology studies in healthy participants. From a strategic
perspective, we believe that our clinical services business benefits from pull-through from our preclinical and laboratory services (particularly with our biotechnology customers).
Correspondingly, our preclinical and laboratory services businesses benefit from the presence of our Phase I clinical offerings as we can take advantage of enhanced economies of scale as well
as "pull-down" from existing clinical customers.

We
offer a wide range of Phase I clinical research services designed to move lead pharmaceutical candidates rapidly from preclinical development through Phase I
pharmacokinetic tolerability and pharmacodynamic assessment to explore human pharmacology. We can conduct studies across a wide


range
of therapeutic areas, and have demonstrated experience in complex dose tolerance, radio-labeled, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and bioavailability studies. In addition, we provide customers
with high-end "first-in-human" studies for novel compounds, and expertise in complex drug-drug interaction studies. Participants at both clinics are
evaluated through an intensive screening process to ensure study suitability. We employ clinical regulatory compliance staff at these facilities to monitor the conduct and reporting of Phase I
trials and to assure management that these trials are conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the preferred strategic global partner for our clients in accelerating the search for drugs, devices and therapies. From discovery through
proof of concept, our goal is to provide products and services for drug discovery and development, which are almost universally mandated by law. Our business is primarily driven by the continued
growth of research and development spending by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, the federal government and academic institutions and of
outsourced services. According to reports by the Biomedical Industry Advisory Group, it takes 11 to 16 years and costs in the range of $180 million to $1.65 billion, with an
average cost of approximately $900 million, to bring a new drug to market. Similarly, a separate 2007 report by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America estimate that it takes
10 to 15 years and costs in excess of $800 million to develop a drug ($1.2 billion for a biologic).

As
the pressure to develop a strong pipeline of innovative new drugs increases, so does the pressure to contain costs, to implement research in multiple countries simultaneously and to
identify, hire and retain a breadth of scientific and technical experts. In order to facilitate and speed their research (as well as to convert largely fixed costs into variable expenses), our
pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are increasingly making strategic decisions to outsource services which can be provided by high-quality service providers like us. For instance,
many of our larger customers—particularly those in the pharmaceutical industry—have announced plans to rationalize their workforce and facilities and/or increase outsourcing in
order to concentrate on their core businesses and new product research and identification. In the past year, we believe that the increase in these actions and the necessary growth of outsourcing is
being driven by a unique confluence of events, including:

•

the
current outlook for drugs coming off patent protection and resulting threats from generic drug manufacturers, which are expected to affect a large percentage of these
companies' existing revenues in the intermediate future;

•

the
reduction over the past decade in frequency of drugs gaining approval;

•

increased
pressure to find drugs to cure critical diseases, including many which are complex and chronic where development will be both risky and costly;

•

continued
productivity and cost containment pressures on the medical device, diagnostics and biopharmaceutical industries due in part to escalating global healthcare costs,
increasing concentration of buying power attributable to larger payors and governments, while simultaneously needing to manage increased financial focus on operating margins and returns;

•

increasing
globalization of drug development (particularly increased research and development activity in the India and China markets);

•

heightened
regulatory authority scrutiny worldwide, particularly concerning drug safety; and

•

enhanced
urgency to push the growing number of new compounds through the drug pipeline.

Outsourcing
allows our customers to concentrate their internal expertise and resources on early drug discovery, while continuing to advance their most promising products through the
development pipeline. This creates opportunities for companies such as ours that can help optimize our clients' programs and assist in accelerating the drug discovery and development process. Our
strategy is to capitalize on these opportunities by continuing to build our portfolio of premium, value-added products


and
services through internal development and investment, augmented by strategic "bolt-on" transactions.

In
today's business environment, we believe there is a particular advantage in being a large, global, high-quality provider of services throughout the drug discovery and
development continuum. Many of our customers, especially large pharmaceutical companies, are attracted to Tier 1 contract research organizations with a full breadth of capabilities, and choose
to establish preferred provider relationships with only a small number. We are focused on being recognized as a premier preferred provider and maintaining long-term strategic partnerships
with our customers. Accordingly, with many of our largest customers, we have entered into global provider agreements that span both segments of our business.

Furthermore,
in response to our clients' requests that we provide increased yet flexible services specifically designed for their individual needs, we have expanded our commitment and
focus to develop Charles River Dedicated Resources (CRDR) arrangements. CRDRs are broad-based multi-year partnering arrangements, generally involving financial commitments from the
customer, which tap into the broad array of physical and/or service resources that we provide. Examples of the type of accommodations we can provide in CRDRs include dedicated space within existing
facilities, building out space to a particular specification, or even establishing a new facility. These CRDRs represent a meaningful, and we expect growing, percentage of our business.

We
intend to continue to broaden the scope of our products and services primarily through internal development, which will be augmented, as needed, through focused acquisitions and
alliances. Our approach to acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to target businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of enhancing stockholder value. This strategy
may include geographic expansion of existing core services, strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new product or service in a related or adjacent business.

We
believe that we are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. As strategic outsourcing by our customers increases, we believe that our expertise in
areas previously addressed by our customers' in-house capabilities allows us to provide a more flexible, efficient and cost-effective alternative for them. In short, because
these products and services are the core of our business, we are able to build and maintain expertise and tap into economies of scale that are difficult for our customers to match with their internal
capabilities.

We
intend to focus our marketing efforts on, among other things, stimulating demand for further outsourcing. As a result of these efforts, we expect to be better positioned to gain
additional market share to take advantage of promising opportunities which are available to us as a result of this continuing trend, as well as broader based collaboration across the

in vivo

discovery
to first-in-human continuum. In 2007 we invested heavily in expanding our facilities capacity, and we intend
to continue the capital expansion activity in 2008. Similarly, we are investing in our information technology systems and resources in order to better serve our customers, harmonize our data, and
streamline our processes.

Customers

Our customers continue to consist primarily of all of the major pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, animal health, medical device, diagnostic
and other life sciences companies, and leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies. We have stable, long-term relationships with many of our customers. During 2007,
no single commercial customer accounted for more than 6% of our total net sales.

For
information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to both of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 12 included in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations in
the United States, Europe, Canada, Japan and other


countries
for each of the last three fiscal years, please review Note 12 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force and account management teams, the majority of whom work in North America, with the
balance in Europe and Japan. Our primary promotional activities include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers,
making presentations and participating at scientific conferences and trade shows in North America, Europe and Japan. We supplement these scientifically based marketing activities with trade
advertising, direct mail, newsletters and are currently developing a new website for launch in 2008. The direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors for our products, particularly
with respect to our In Vitro technology business.

Our
internal marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff and account management teams while developing and implementing programs to create close working
relationships with customers in the biomedical research industry. We maintain client/customer service, technical assistance and consulting service departments, which address both our customers'
routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist our customers in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, preclinical and clinical study design,
regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is widely recognized as a valuable resource by our customers.

Competition

Our strategy is to be a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality, reputation, responsiveness,
pricing, innovation, breadth of therapeutic and scientific expertise, timeliness and availability, supported by our professional bench strength in animal science and toxicology, global capabilities
and strategically located facilities worldwide. We are able to offer a unique portfolio through our broad array of both routine and specialized preclinical services, as well as a wide range of
research models and research model services.

The
competitive landscape for our two business segments varies.

•

For
RMS, our main competitors include three smaller competitors in North America (each of whom have a global scope), and several smaller competitors in Europe and in Japan.
Of our main U.S. competitors, two are privately held businesses and the third is a government funded, not-for-profit institution. We believe that none of our competitors in RMS
has our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry relationships.

•

As
for PCS, we believe we are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net service revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical
services consist of both publicly held and privately owned companies, and it is estimated that the top five participants (including Charles River) account for approximately 50% of the global market
(exclusive of clinical services), with the rest of the market remaining highly fragmented. Our PCS segment (including our Phase I business) also competes with in-house departments
of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and teaching hospitals. Independently, the Phase I clinical services
market is highly fragmented, with over 15 participants, both public and private, sharing the market and a number of smaller, limited-service providers also providing capacity.

We
believe that the barriers to entry in certain of our business units, particularly those which require substantial capital expenditures and mandate GLP compliant practices, are
generally high and present a significant impediment for new market participants.


Industry Support and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements in our industry, and
continue to show our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical area of our business. We created our own Humane Care
Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory animals.
Laboratory animals are an important resource that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of life-saving drugs and procedures. We work
hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research.
As animal caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We
support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to
laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to
outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field.

Employees

As of December 29, 2007, we had approximately 8,500 employees including approximately 600 science professionals with advanced degrees, including
approximately 140 D.V.M.s, 240 Ph.D.s and 20 M.D.s. Our employees are not unionized in the United States, although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities, consistent with local
customs for our industry. Our annual satisfaction surveys indicate that we have an excellent relationship with our employees.

Backlog

Our backlog for our PCS business segment was approximately $393 million at December 29, 2007. We do not report backlog for the RMS segment because
turnaround time from order placement to fulfillment, both for products and services, is rapid. Our preclinical services are performed over varying durations, from short to extended periods of time,
which may be as long as several years. We maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near
future, or are in process and have not been completed. We only recognize a study or project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a customer's intention to proceed. We do not recognize
verbal orders. Cancelled studies or projects are removed from backlog.

We
believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration
(i.e., some studies that are included in 2007 backlog may be completed in 2008, while others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may change, which may either increase
or decrease their value. Third, studies included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory
authorities for a number of reasons, including the failure of a drug to satisfy safety and efficacy requirements or a sponsor making a strategic decision that a study or service is no longer
necessary. Delayed contracts remain in our backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to
realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year.


Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes
overlapping, regulatory environments, as described below.

The
Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use of certain species of animals used for research. The United States Congress has passed legislation which excludes laboratory rats,
mice and chickens used for research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States small animal research model activities and our vaccine support services operations are not
subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species, the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize
specific husbandry practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and environmental enrichment to
assure the welfare of these animals. We comply with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of regulated
species. Our animal production facilities and preclinical facilities in the U.S. are accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a
private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. AAALAC covers all species of laboratory
animals, including rats, mice and birds. Our preclinical business is also generally regulated by the USDA.

Our
import and export of animals in support of several of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are subject to a variety of national, regional, and local laws
and regulations, which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary certificates, licenses, detailed
standard operating procedures and other documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane treatment of the animals in our custody at our locations.

Our
PCS business conducts nonclinical laboratory safety studies intended to support the registration or licensing of our clients' products throughout the world. The conduct of these
studies must comply with national statutory or regulatory requirements for Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). GLP regulations describe a quality system concerned with the organizational process and the
conditions under which nonclinical laboratory studies are planned, performed, monitored, recorded, archived and reported. GLP compliance is required by such regulatory agencies as the FDA, United
States Environmental Protection Agency, European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, Health Canada, and
the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare. GLP requirements are significantly harmonized throughout the world and our laboratories are capable of conducting studies in compliance with all
appropriate requirements. To assure our compliance obligations, we have established quality assurance units (QAU) in each of our nonclinical laboratories. The QAUs operate independently from those
individuals that direct and conduct studies and monitor each study to assure management that the facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are in compliance with GLP.
Our laboratory managers use the results of QAU monitoring as part of a continuous process improvement program to assure our nonclinical studies meet client and regulatory expectations for quality and
integrity.

Our
PCS business also conducts human Phase I clinical trials and provides services in support of our clients' registration or licensing applications. Human clinical trials are
conducted in a progressive fashion beginning with Phase I, and in the case of approved drugs, continued through Phase IV trials. Phase I studies are the initial human clinical
trials and are conducted with a small number of subjects under highly controlled conditions. These clinical trials and services are performed in accordance with the International Conference on
Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practice Consolidated Guidance and in compliance with regulations governing the conduct of
clinical investigations and the protection of human clinical trial subjects. In the United States, these trials and services must comply with FDA regulations and in


Europe
our clinical trials and services must comply with the clinical trials directive of the European Union. Neither FDA regulations nor the clinical trials directive requires a quality assurance
program; however, each of our Phase I facilities has an established quality assurance unit that monitors the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials to assure that these trials are
conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our
manufacturing business produces endotoxin test kits and reagents and vaccine support products. Additionally, the analytical divisions of several of our nonclinical laboratories
conduct stability and potency testing in support of our clients' manufacturing programs. These activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and MHRA under their respective Good Manufacturing
Practice regulations or the FDA's Quality Systems Regulation (manufacturing of medical devices). We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and are subject to inspection on a
routine basis for compliance with these regulations. These regulations require that we manufacture our products in a prescribed manner with respect to, and maintain records of, our manufacturing,
testing and control activities.

All
of our sites are also subject to licensing and regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and air transportation of laboratory specimens, the
handling, storage and disposal of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently in compliance
in all material respects with such national, regional and local laws (which include the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, and European oversight agencies),
failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

To
ensure that all business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and satisfy our client expectations for quality, we have established a corporate
regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our corporate quality system and all quality assurance functions within the Company. This organization reports to our Corporate Vice
President for Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.

Corporate Governance

We are committed to operating our business with integrity and accountability. We strive to meet or exceed all of the corporate governance standards established by
the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal government as implemented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Eight of the nine members of our Board of Directors
are independent and have no significant financial, business or personal ties to the Company or management and all of our Board committees are composed of independent directors. The Board adheres to
Corporate Governance Guidelines and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which has been communicated to employees and posted on our website. We are diligent in complying with established accounting
principles and are committed to providing financial information that is transparent, timely and accurate. We have implemented a Related Person Transactions Policy in order to promote the timely
identification of such transactions and to ensure we give appropriate consideration to any real or perceived conflicts in our commercial arrangements. We have established global processes through
which employees, either directly or anonymously, can notify management (and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors) of alleged accounting and auditing concerns or violations including fraud.
Our internal Disclosure Committee meets regularly and operates pursuant to formal disclosure procedures and guidelines which help to ensure that our public disclosures are accurate and timely. Copies
of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Related Person Transactions Policy are available on our website at www.criver.com under the "Investor
Relations—Corporate Governance" caption.


Item 1A.    Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth
below, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete
discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.

The outsourcing trend in the preclinical and clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our growth.

Over the past several years, some areas of our businesses have grown significantly as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies
outsourcing their preclinical and clinical research support activities. We believe that due to the significant investment in facilities and personnel required to support drug development,
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies look to outsource some or all of those services. By doing so, they can focus their resources on their core competency of drug discovery, while obtaining the
outsourced services from a full-service provider like us. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the next several years, a decrease in preclinical and/or
clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our expected higher-growth areas and adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations. Furthermore, our customer contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract or multiple contracts could adversely affect our sales and
profitability. Our operations and financial results could be significantly affected by these risks.

A reduction in research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business.

Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part
upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on research and development and to outsource the products and services we provide. Fluctuations
in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets
fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely
affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories
or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries, including funding for biotechnology companies generally, also affect our business.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business.

A portion of net sales in our RMS segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on
both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Government funding of research and
development is subject to the political process, which is inherently unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the
approval of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that
fund research and development activities. NIH funding has remained fairly flat in recent years and a reduction in government funding for the


NIH
or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results.

Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnological industries, including potential health care reform,
could decrease the need for the services we provide.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher
regulatory standards and often additional revenues for
companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an
increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In addition, if
regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures which utilize laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business
could be materially adversely affected.

In
recent years the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. We are unable to predict what
legislative proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia.

Implementation
of health care reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and
development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and abroad. In addition, new
laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for
pharmaceutical products, our customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development.

Our standard customer agreements contain customer-determined termination and service reduction provisions, which may result in less contract revenue
than we anticipate.

Generally, our agreements with our customers provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services under the agreements with
little or no notice. Customers may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including: the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired
study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; the customer's decision to forego or terminate a particular study; or the loss of funding for the particular
research study. If a customer terminates a contract with us, we are entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases,
penalties. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate cancellation of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business (particularly our PCS segment) and, therefore, may adversely
affect our operating results.

Many of our contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control, or we may under price or
overrun cost estimates with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses.

Many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial
risk if we initially under-price our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice.
Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, and often at the discretion of the customer. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple


contracts
could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned by us up
to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a termination fee.

Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased
sales and cause us to incur additional costs.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain adventitious, infectious agents such as certain viruses and bacteria because the presence of
these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production
facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses including transgenic
services, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Contaminations
typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss, clean-up and
start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost customer orders and credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic
mix-ups or mismatings also exists and may require the restarting of the applicable colonies. While this does not require the complete clean-up, renovation and disinfection of the barrier
room, it would likely result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. In addition, contaminations expose us to risks that customers will request
compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. In addition, there exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our customer's
facilities, with similar impact to them. In some cases, we may be responsible for animals carrying human susceptible diseases, and in the case of contamination, there is possible risk of human
exposure.

All
such contaminations described above are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. We have made significant capital expenditures
designed to strengthen our
biosecurity and have significantly improved our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations; however, contaminations may still occur.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally.

A significant part of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our
non-U.S. subsidiaries, have represented approximately one-half our total net sales in recent years. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a
significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business, including:

•

foreign
currencies we receive for sales and which we record as expenses outside the United States could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and
reduce the amount of revenue (and increase the amount of expenses) that we recognize and cause fluctuations in reported financial results;

•

certain
contracts, particularly in Canada, are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts and where
expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations;

•

general
economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

•

potential
international conflicts, including terrorist acts;

•

potential
trade restrictions, exchange controls and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the United States;


•

difficulties
and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of violations of local laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by
employees overseas or the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions;

•

unexpected
changes in regulatory requirements;

•

the
difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

•

unfavorable
labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions;

•

longer
accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

•

import
and export licensing requirements.

Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions.

We currently are engaged in a project to replace many of our numerous legacy business systems at our different sites globally with an enterprise wide, integrated
enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. The process of planning and preparing for such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and we are required to address a
number of challenges including data conversion, system cutover and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments,
missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. There have been numerous, well-publicized instances of companies experiencing difficulties with the implementation of ERP
systems which resulted in negative business consequences.

In
the course of our planning, we have actively considered the risks of implementation and taken measures to manage the risks, including: incorporating specific steps to mitigate
potential risks into our project plan; engaging outside consultants who specialize in ERP implementations to provide assistance and advice on minimizing implementation problems; using industry
standard methodologies and
practices; and instituting monitoring processes into the project and our preparations for implementations in order to avoid unnecessary risks. Despite these steps to manage risk, there is still a
possibility that implementation may occur which could materially and adversely effect us.

Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business.

The products and services which we provide our customers are essential to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost universally mandated by law.
Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other
rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, impacting the industry. This has
included occasional on-site demonstrations at facilities operated by us. Any negative attention or threats directed against our animal research activities in the future could impair our
ability to operate our business efficiently.

Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.

We depend on a limited international source of supply of large animal models required in our product and service offerings. Disruptions to their continued supply
may arise from health problems, export or import restrictions or embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition amongst suppliers for models,
disruptions to the air travel system or other normal-course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an
alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms.


We may be unable to build out our facilities as anticipated.

To support our customers' growing demand for drug discovery and development services, including increased strategic focus on outsourcing services and programs, we
are engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program, with $227 million spent on capital expenditures in 2007 and another $220-240 million allocated for capital
expenditures in 2008. Included in our 2008 capital plan are the following: our new U.S. PCS facility in Nevada, expansions at our Canada, Ohio and Scotland PCS facilities, the construction of a
new PCS facility in China, and the construction of our new RMS facility in Maryland. We cannot assure you that any or all of these facilities, or any particular
phase of such facilities, will be constructed on the anticipated timetable or on budget. Any material delay in bringing these facilities on-line, or substantial increase in costs to
complete these facilities, could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, the costs of these capacity expansion programs may have an adverse impact on our operating margins, particularly
within our PCS business.

Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results.

Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission
to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify that informed consent is obtained from
participants in connection with a particular Phase I clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to redo the trial at no further cost to
our customer, but at substantial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice of observations or a warning from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation by us of good clinical practice,
good laboratory practice or good manufacturing practice requirements could materially and adversely affect us.

In
addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continues to be updated. Notably, there has been a recent
updating of guidance in Europe that will be implemented over a period of several years on a country-by-country basis. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed
for other areas that impact the biomedical research community including transportation and the use of disinfectants. In the United States, an updating of guidance used by the National Institutes of
Health and by certain oversight agencies has been recently funded, and it is expected that over the next 3 years, standards will be updated for the care and use of laboratory animals in all
aspects of our US business units. These new guidelines could cause us increased costs attributable to additional facilities, the need to add personnel to address new processes, as well as increased
administrative burden, and the upgrading of existing facilities.

The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive.

The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other drug discovery and development
companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals.
We compete on a variety of factors, including:

•

reputation
for on-time quality performance;

•

reputation
for regulatory compliance;

•

expertise
and experience in specific areas;

•

scope
and breadth of service and product offerings;

•

broad
geographic availability;

•

price/value;


•

technological
expertise and efficient drug development processes;

•

quality
of facilities;

•

financial
stability;

•

size;

•

ability
to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; and

•

ability
to manage Phase I clinical trials both domestically and internationally.

If
we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. The drug
discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, who are targets for each other and for larger
pharmaceutical companies. If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and contract research organizations generally, with respect to both clients and
acquisition candidates. In addition, while there are substantial barriers to entry for large, global competitors with broad-based services, small, specialized entities considering entering the
contract research organization industry will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities in acquiring and rolling up these companies,
thus further increasing possible competition. Furthermore, in recent years both Charles River and our competitors, particularly in the preclinical services area, have been investing in capital
projects to increase capacity. An ongoing challenge for all participants is balancing capacity growth and market demand. If capacity has been increased too much, pressure to lower prices or to take on
lower-margin studies and projects may occur. These competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our services and could adversely affect our financial results.

We could be adversely affected by tax law changes in Canada and the United Kingdom.

We have substantial operations in Canada and the United Kingdom which currently benefit from favorable corporate tax arrangements. We receive substantial tax
credits in Canada from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments and benefits from tax credits and accelerated tax depreciation allowances in the United Kingdom. Any reduction in the
availability or amount of these tax credits or allowances would be likely to have a material adverse effect on profits, cash flow and our effective tax rate.

Impairment of goodwill may adversely impact future results of operations.

We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable and indefinite-lived acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of
businesses. As of December 29, 2007, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $1.3 billion on the consolidated balance sheet. The initial identification and valuation of these
intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors,
input from accredited valuation consultants, reviews of projected future income cash flows and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions might have increased or decreased
the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets and potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations.


We perform an annual review of goodwill to determine if an impairment exists. Goodwill is considered impaired if we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its
fair value. Assessing the impairment of goodwill involves making assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Our assessment is derived from cash flow
projections and various key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks that are incorporated in our internal strategic review process. We also analyze our market capitalization as compared to a
discounted cash flow analysis. We performed annual impairment tests in 2007 and concluded the goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were not impaired. The results of that
impairment review are as of a point in time and changes in future business strategy or market conditions could significantly impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of these assets
in subsequent years.

Goodwill
will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment by us at least annually. If the future growth and operating results of the acquired businesses are not as strong as
anticipated, goodwill may be impaired. To the extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its implied fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an
impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.

Contract research services create a risk of liability.

In contracting to work on drug development trials, as a contract research organization we face a range of potential liabilities which may include:

•

errors
or omissions in reporting of study detail in preclinical or Phase I clinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may potentially advance studies
absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing;

•

litigation
risk, including resulting from our errors or omissions, associated with the possibility that the drugs/compounds of our clients that were included in drug
development trials we participated in may cause illness, personal injury or have other negative side effects to clinical study participants or other persons (including death);

•

general
risks associated with operating a Phase I clinical business, including negative consequences from the administration of drugs to clinical trial participants
or the professional malpractice of Phase I medical care providers;

•

risks
associated with our possible failure to properly care for our customers' property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, or
goods and materials in transit, while in our possession;

•

risks
that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we run may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to themselves or humans despite
preventive measures contained in our company policies for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and

•

errors
and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or data from the trial.

We
attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods. Nonetheless, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks.

In
our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine, and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to
control the exposure of animal related disease or infections.

In
our PCS business, we attempt to reduce these risks by contract provisions entitling us to be indemnified or entitling us to a limitation of liability; insurance maintained by our
clients, investigators, and by us; and various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business.


In
both our RMS and PCS businesses, contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct.
We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision or in the
event that a party
who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain
such insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us.

If we are unable to attract suitable participants for our Phase I clinical trials, our business might suffer.

The Phase I clinical research studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of subjects. Participants generally include people
from the communities in which the studies are conducted, including our Phase I clinics in Edinburgh, Scotland and Tacoma, Washington, which such communities to date have provided a substantial
pool of potential subjects for research studies. Our Phase I clinical research activities could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing participants on a
consistent basis.

New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and
services.

For many years, groups within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop models, methods and systems that would replace or supplement the
use of living animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Some companies have developed techniques in these areas, including vaccine development, that may have scientific merit. In addition,
technological improvements to existing or new processes, such as imaging technology, could result in a refinement in the number of animal research models necessary to conduct the required research. It
is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method as it becomes validated as a research model alternative or adjunct in our markets. However, we may not be
successful in commercializing these methods if developed, and sales or profits from these methods may not offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative research methods could
decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales.

The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly
intellectual property lawsuits.

The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue.
Accordingly, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual
property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose.
If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or
obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.

We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services.

We may seek to develop and market new services that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. If we are unable to develop new services
and/or create demand for those newly developed services, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected.

Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects.

At December 29, 2007, we had approximately $510.0 million of debt. This debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including
making it more difficult for us to obtain additional


financing
on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to
capitalize on significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates.

If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past seven years, we have expanded our business through several acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire businesses and technologies and form
alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential
acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include:

•

difficulties
and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products or technologies;

•

difficulties
in developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management's attention from other business concerns;

•

potential
losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller;

•

risks
of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies;

•

the
presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; and

•

difficulties
in achieving business and financial success.

In
the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected.

We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems.

We operate large and complex computer systems that contain significant amounts of customer data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and
retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the preclinical and the clinical studies we conduct for our customers. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such computer systems
for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts are unsuccessful we could
suffer significant harm. Our contracts with our customers typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from these studies. In the event the
confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm.

We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief
Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for over 30 years. We have no employment agreement
with Mr. Foster or other members of our management. If Mr. Foster or other members of management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.

Because
of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we
have an


excellent
record of employee retention, there is still strong competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract
and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical
and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors as:

•

the
number and scope of ongoing customer engagements,

•

the
commencement, postponement, progress, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in the quarter,

•

changes
in the mix of our products and services,

•

the
extent of cost overruns,

•

holiday
patterns of our customers,

•

budget
cycles of our customers,

•

the
timing and charges associated with completed acquisitions and other events, and

•

exchange
rate fluctuations.

We
believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results
could negatively affect the market price of our common stock

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments

There are no unresolved comments to be reported in response to Item 1B.

Item 2.    Properties

We own or lease the land and buildings where we have facilities. We own large facilities (facilities over 50,000 square feet) for our PCS businesses in the United
States, Canada, Scotland and Ireland, and lease large facilities in the United States, Canada and, once completed, China. We have recently brought online new U.S. PCS facilities in Massachusetts and
Nevada. We own large RMS facilities in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Canada and the United States. None of our leases are individually material to our business operations and
many have an option to renew. We believe that we will be able to successfully renew expiring leases on terms satisfactory to us. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our operations and that
suitable additional space will be available when needed. For additional information see Note [7] to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this
Form 10-K.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that is not material to our business or
financial condition.

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant

(pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K).

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations of each our current executive officers. All such persons have been elected to serve until their successors are
elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.

Thomas F. Ackerman,

age 53, joined us in 1988 with over eleven years of combined public accounting and international finance experience.
He was named Controller, North America in 1992 and became our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In 1999, he was named a Senior Vice President and in 2005 he was named a Corporate
Executive Vice President. He is currently responsible for overseeing our Accounting and Finance Department and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman was
an accountant at Arthur Andersen & Co.

James C. Foster,

age 57, joined us in 1976 as General Counsel. Over the past 30 years, Mr. Foster has held various staff and
managerial positions, and was named our President in 1991, Chief Executive Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000.

Nancy A. Gillett,

age 52, joined us in 1999 with the acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett has 22 years of
experience as an ACVP board certified pathologist and scientific manager. In 1999, she became Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Sierra Biomedical division, and subsequently held a
variety of managerial positions, including President and General Manager of Sierra Biomedical and Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Drug Discovery and Development (the predecessor to our
Preclinical Services business segment). In 2004, Dr. Gillett was named Corporate Senior Vice President and President, Global Preclinical Services, and in 2006 she became a Corporate Executive
Vice President.

David P. Johst,

age 46, joined us in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1995. He became Vice
President, Human Resources and Administration in 1996, a Senior Vice President in 1999, and a Corporate Executive Vice President in 2005. He currently serves as the Company's Chief Administrative
Officer and is responsible for overseeing our Human Resources department, our Consulting and Staffing Services business unit and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Johst was an attorney in the Corporate Department at Hale and Dorr.

Real H. Renaud,

age 61, joined us in 1964 and has over 40 years of research models production and related management experience. In
1986, Mr. Renaud became Vice President of Production, with responsibility for overseeing the Company's North American small animal operations, and was named Vice President, Worldwide Production
in 1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice President and General Manager, European and North American Animal Operations in 1996, following a two-year European assignment during which he
provided direct oversight to our European operations. In 1999, he became a Senior Vice President and in 2003, Mr. Renaud became Executive Vice President and General Manager, Global Research
Models and Services.


PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 23, 2000 under the symbol "CRL." The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated below the high and low sales prices for our common stock.


High

Low

First quarter (through February 12, 2008)

$

69.04

$

59.35


High

Low

First quarter

$

47.64

$

42.71

Second quarter

54.04

45.30

Third quarter

56.64

50.15

Fourth quarter

68.00

55.11


High

Low

First quarter

$

51.50

$

41.99

Second quarter

49.95

36.30

Third quarter

43.46

33.73

Fourth quarter

45.34

41.00

There
were no equity securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, sold by the Company during the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.

Shareholders

As of February 12, 2008, there were approximately 508 registered shareholders of the outstanding shares of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past two years and we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable
future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. Some of the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit agreement and term loan agreements
limit our ability to pay dividends.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table provides information relating to the Company's purchases of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended December 29, 2007.

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased

Average Price

Paid per Share

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

as Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

Approximate $

Yet to be Purchased

Sep. 30, 2007–Oct. 27, 2007

90,474

$

56.91

90,000

$

103,315,749

Oct. 28, 2007–Nov. 24, 2007

27,670

$

57.95

27,000

$

101,751,054

Nov. 25, 2007–Dec. 29, 2007

82,200

$

65.09

82,200

$

96,400,491

Total

200,344

199,200


The
Board of Directors of the Company has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently amended on October 26, 2005,
May 9, 2006 and August 1,
2007, to acquire up to a total of $400.0 million of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date.

During
the quarter ended December 29, 2007, the Company repurchased 199,200 shares of common stock for approximately $12.0 million. The timing and amount of any future
repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate considerations. Additionally, the Company's Incentive Plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards in
order to satisfy individual tax withholding requirements. Accordingly, during the quarter ended December 29, 2007, the Company acquired 1,144 shares as a result of such withholdings.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table summarizes, as of December 29, 2007, the number of options issued under the Company's stock option plans and the number of options
available for future issuance under these plans.

Plan Category

Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights

Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights

Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plan approved by security holders:

Charles River 2000 Incentive Plan

4,171,763

$

41.01

71,061

Charles River 1999 Management Incentive Plan

42,378

$

19.66

12,617

Inveresk 2002 Stock Option Plan

196,352

$

30.76

—

2007 Incentive Plan

57,310

$

52.11

6,201,175

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

4,467,803

(1)

$

40.50

6,284,853

(2)

(1)

None
of the options outstanding under any equity compensation plan of the Company include rights to any dividend equivalents (i.e., a right to receive from the Company a
payment commensurate to dividend payments received by holders of common stock or other equity instruments of the Company).

(2)

On
March 22, 2007, the Board of Directors determined that, assuming shareholder approval is received for the 2007 incentive Plan, no future awards would be granted under the
preexisting equity compensation plans, including the Charles River 1999 Management Incentive Plan and the Charles River 2000 Incentive Plan. Shareholder approval was obtained on May 8, 2007.
Previously, on February 28, 2005, the Board of Directors terminated the Inveresk 2002 Stock Option Plan to the extent that no further awards would be granted thereunder.


The
following table provides additional information regarding the aggregate issuances under the Company's existing equity compensation plans as of December 29, 2007:

Category

Number of securities

outstanding

Weighted average

exercise price

Weighted

average term

(a)

(b)

(c)

Total number of restricted shares outstanding(1)

711,896

$

—

—

Total number of options outstanding

4,467,803

$

40.50

5.72

(1)

For
purposes of this table, only unvested restricted stock as of December 29, 2007 is included. Also for purposes of this table only, the total included 30,300 restricted stock
units granted to certain employees of the Company outside of the United States.


Item 6.    Selected Consolidated Financial Data

The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8., "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report.

Fiscal Year(1)






(dollars in thousands)

Statement of Income Data:

Net sales

$

1,230,626

$

1,058,385

$

993,328

$

724,221

$

599,495

Cost of products sold and services provided

752,435

651,778

603,624

435,499

368,665

Selling, general and administrative expenses

217,491

180,795

157,999

116,879

88,800

Other operating expenses, net

—

—

—

—


Amortization of goodwill and intangibles

33,509

37,639

47,011

13,857

4,865

Operating income

227,191

188,173

184,694

157,986

136,418

Interest income

9,683

6,836

3,695

3,262

1,775

Interest expense

(18,004

)

(19,426

)

(24,324

)

(11,718

)

(8,480

)

Other, net

(1,448

)


(177

)



Income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

217,422

176,564

163,888

150,467

130,497

Provision for income taxes

59,400

49,738

16,261

60,159

50,230

Income before minority interests and earnings from equity investments

158,022

126,826

147,627

90,308

80,267

Minority interests

(470

)

(1,605

)

(1,838

)

(1,577

)

(1,416

)

Income from continuing operations

157,552

125,221

145,789

88,731

78,851

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(3,146

)

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

1,061

1,300

Net income (loss)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

$

89,792

$

80,151

Common Share Data:

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

2.35

$

1.82

$

2.09

$

1.79

$

1.73

Discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

$

0.03

Net income (loss)

$

2.31

$

(0.81

)

$

2.04

$

1.81

$

1.76

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

2.29

$

1.79

$

2.02

$

1.65

$

1.61

Discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

$

0.03

Net income (loss)

$

2.25

$

(0.80

)

$

1.96

$

1.68

$

1.64

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

$

86,379

$

82,586

$

87,935

$

42,063

$

29,564

Capital expenditures

227,036

181,747

94,520

44,735

32,704

Balance Sheet Data (at end of period):

Cash and cash equivalents

$

225,449

$

175,380

$

114,821

$

207,566

$

182,331

Working capital

305,336

241,762

107,910

161,191

256,537

Goodwill, net

1,120,540

1,119,309

1,097,590

1,102,511

105,308

Total assets

2,805,537

2,557,544

2,538,209

2,626,835

799,554

Total debt

510,049

572,054

296,090

686,844

186,002

Total shareholders' equity

1,860,467

1,595,211

1,827,013

1,472,505

464,623

(1)

Our
fiscal year consists of 12 months ending on the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.


Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

Continuing Operations

We are a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the drug discovery and development process, including research models and associated services and
outsourced preclinical services. We partner with global pharmaceutical companies, a wide range of biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, leading hospitals and academic institutions
throughout the world in order to bring drugs to market faster and more efficiently. Our broad portfolio of products and services enables our customers to reduce costs, increase speed to market and
enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. We currently operate over 60 facilities in 15 countries worldwide. We have been in business for 60 years. We have
built upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of regulatory compliant preclinical services which
address drug discovery and development in the preclinical arena.

Our
sales growth in 2007 was driven by continued spending by major pharmaceuticals, biotechnology companies and academic institutions on our global products and services, which aid in
their development of new drugs and products. We expect future drivers for our business as a whole primarily to be our customers' continued growing demand for drug discovery and development services,
including their increased strategic focus on outsourcing.

We
expect our on-going capacity expansion program along with our continued focus on our core competencies of laboratory animal medicine and science and regulatory compliant preclinical
services to position us to take advantage of these growing opportunities for our business. Through our capacity expansion program we intend to take advantage of the long-term opportunities
made available by our customers' demands and focus, particularly within the Preclinical Services (PCS) business. For instance, we opened our new preclinical site in Massachusetts and Scotland
expansion in 2007 and our new Nevada preclinical site in early 2008. Additionally, in 2008 we are constructing additional preclinical capacity in Canada, China, Ohio and Scotland. We have commenced
construction of our new China facility, which we believe will enable us to be the partner of choice for our global pharmaceutical customers as they establish and expand research and development
activities in China. In addition, the opening of our California Research Models and Services (RMS) expansion and the ground breaking of our facility in Maryland, which will support the National Cancer
Institute (NCI) contract and commercial production, reflect our commitment to address demand for our RMS products and services. Our capital expenditures of $227.0 million in 2007, and our
planned capital expenditures in the range of $220 million to $240 million in 2008, reflect our ongoing commitment to this strategy. In addition to internally generated organic growth,
our business strategy includes strategic "bolt-on" acquisitions that complement our business and geographically expand our existing services.

Total
net sales in 2007 were $1.2 billion, an increase of 16.3% over the same period last year. The sales increase was due primarily to increased customer demand, higher pricing
and the full year impact of the Northwest Kinetics Phase I clinical business acquired in late 2006. The positive effect of foreign currency translation was 2.9%. Our gross margin increased to
38.9% of net sales, compared to 38.4% of net sales for 2006, due mainly to favorable results in RMS and many PCS locations, partially offset by transition costs for our PCS Massachusetts facilities.

Operating
income for the year was $227.2 million compared to $188.2 million for 2006. The operating margin increased to 18.5% compared to 17.8% for the prior year primarily
due to improved margins in our RMS business and lower amortization, partially offset by costs in our PCS segment due to the Massachusetts transition.

Net
income from continuing operations was $157.6 million in 2007 compared to $125.2 million in 2006. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for 2007 were
$2.29 compared to $1.79 in 2006.


We
report two segments: RMS and PCS, which reflect the manner in which our operating units are managed.

Our
RMS segment, which represented 46.9% of net sales in 2007, includes sales of research models, transgenic services, research animal diagnostics, discovery services, consulting and
staffing services,
vaccine support and in vitro technology (primarily endotoxin testing). Net sales for this segment increased 12.1% compared to 2006, due to increased research model sales in the United States and
Europe, increased transgenic sales and strong in vitro sales, partially offset by lower research model sales in Japan. Favorable foreign currency translation increased the net sales gain by 2.9%. We
experienced increases in both the RMS gross margin and operating margin, (to 43.2% from 41.6%, and to 30.7% from 28.7%, respectively), mainly due to price increases along with improved capacity
utilization resulting from higher sales volume.

Our
PCS segment, which represented 53.1% of net sales in 2007, includes services required to take a drug through the development process including discovery support, toxicology,
pathology, biopharmaceutical, bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism services as well as Phase I clinical trials. Sales for this segment increased 20.2% over 2006. We experienced
favorable market conditions as demand for toxicology services particularly remained strong. Favorable foreign currency increased sales growth by 2.9%. The gross margin for PCS declined to 35.0% from
35.4% in 2006, due primarily to the transition costs of the Massachusetts facilities and the foreign exchange impact of the strengthening Canadian dollar, partially offset by improvement to most PCS
locations. The operating margin increased to 15.8% of net sales compared to 15.2% of net sales in 2006 due mainly to lower amortization expense, which was partially offset by transition costs of the
Massachusetts facilities. We expect to see increasing levels of customer demand for general and speciality toxicology studies. We continue to focus on meeting the growing demand for our preclinical
services and increased outsourcing trends through our expansion program.

Discontinued Operations

Our former Phase II-IV Clinical Services and our Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS) businesses are reported as discontinued operations.
Net loss from discontinued operations for 2007 was $3.1 million. In 2006, net loss of $181.0 million was due mainly to charges related to the write down of goodwill and impaired assets
related to the Phase II-IV business along with tax expense of $45.3 million related to the sale of discontinued operations.

Net Income

Net income (loss) for 2007 was $154.4 million compared to $(55.8) million in 2006.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of these financial statements requires management to use judgment when making assumptions that are involved in preparing estimates that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management
evaluates its estimates and assumptions. Some of those estimates can be complex and require management to make estimates about the future and actual results could differ from those estimates.
Management bases its estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, there may also be other
estimates or assumptions that are reasonable.

Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes the following critical accounting policies are
most affected by significant


judgments
and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The following summary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related
notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates reflect our more significant judgments and estimates than usual in
the preparation of our consolidated financial statement:

•

Goodwill
and other intangible assets;

•

Revenue
recognition;

•

Pension
plan accounting;

•

Stock-based
compensation; and

•

Income
taxes and deferred tax assets.

Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets

We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other
identifiable finite and indefinite-lived acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due to businesses we acquired. The identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of
the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition require significant management judgments and estimates. These
estimates are made based on, among others, input from an accredited valuation consultant, reviews of projected future income cash flows and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and
assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, and potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations.

We
perform an annual review of goodwill to determine if an impairment exists. Goodwill is considered impaired if we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its
fair value. Assessing the impairment of goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Our evaluation includes management
estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis
for our assessment. Our market capitalization was also compared to the discounted cash flow analysis. We performed an annual impairment test in 2007 and concluded the goodwill and other
indefinite-lived intangible asset balances were not impaired. As of December 29, 2007, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $1.3 billion in the consolidated balance sheet.
The results of this year's impairment review are as of a point in time and changes in future business strategy or market conditions could significantly impact the assumptions used in calculating the
fair value of these assets in subsequent years.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue on product and services sales. We record product revenue
when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Recognition of service revenue is
primarily based on the completion of agreed-upon service procedures including rate specified contracts and fixed fee contracts. Revenue of agreed-upon rate contracts is
recognized as services are performed, based on rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete
procedures specified by the customers in the form of study protocols. Our fixed fee service contracts, which are utilized mainly in our Preclinical segment, vary in term from a few days to greater
than a year, with the majority of such contracts having a term of less than six months. On a monthly basis, management reviews the costs incurred and services provided to date on these contracts in
relation to the total estimated effort to complete the contract. As a result of the monthly reviews, revisions in estimated effort to complete the contract are reflected in the period in which the
change became known. These judgments and estimates are not expected to result in a change that would materially effect our reported results. In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at the
time the study is initiated. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue as services are performed. Conversely, in some cases, revenue is recorded based on the level of service performed in
advance of billing the customer with the offset to unbilled receivable. As of


December 29,
2007, we had recorded unbilled revenue of $52.0 million and deferred revenue of $102.0 million in our consolidated balance sheet based on the difference between the
estimated level of services performed and the billing arrangements defined by our service contracts.

Pension Plan Accounting

As of December 29, 2007, we had a pension liability of
$36.6 million. The actuarial computations require the use of assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to employees and allocate this cost to the service periods. The key
assumptions include the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and expected future rate of salary increases. In addition, our actuaries determine the expense or liability of the plan using
other assumptions for future experiences such as withdrawal and mortality rate. The key assumptions used to calculate pension costs are
determined and reviewed annually by management after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed discount rate, which is intended to be the actual rate at which benefits
could effectively be settled, is adjusted based on the change in the long-term bond yield as of the measurement date. As of December 29, 2007 the weighted-average discount rate for
our pension plans was 5.14%.

The
assumed expected return on plan assets is the average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide future benefits to pension plan participants. This includes
considering the assets allocation and expected returns likely to be earned over the life of the plan. If the actual return is different from the assumed expected return in plan assets, the difference
would be amortized over a period of approximately 15 to 20 years. The estimated effect of a 1.0% change in the expected rate of return would increase or decrease pension expense by
$1.9 million annually.

Stock-based Compensation

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted, on a modified prospective
basis, the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), and related guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and
directors including employee stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the estimated fair
value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period which is generally the vesting period. During the year ended December 29,
2007, we recognized $26.0 million of stock compensation expense associated with stock options, restricted stock and performance based stock awards.

We
estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the fair value of our restricted stock awards and restricted stock units based on the quoted
market price of our common stock. We recognize the associated compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the awards, net of estimated forfeitures. Forfeiture
rates are estimated based on historical pre-vesting forfeitures and are updated on vesting date to reflect actual forfeitures.

Estimating
the fair value for stock options requires judgment, including estimating stock-price volatility, expected term, expected dividends and risk-free interest rates.
The expected volatility rates are estimated based on historical volatilities of our common stock over a period of time that approximates the expected term of the options. The expected term represents
the average time that options are expected to be outstanding and is estimated based on the historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation patterns of our stock options. Expected
dividends are estimated based on our dividend history as well as our current projections. The risk free interest rate is based on the market yield of U.S. Treasury securities for periods approximating
the expected terms of the options in effect at the time of grant. These assumptions are updated on at least an annual basis or when there is a significant change in circumstances that could affect
these assumptions.


The
fair value of option based stock awards granted during 2007 was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

December 29, 2007

Expected life (in years)

5.0

Expected volatility

30.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

4.6

%

Expected dividend yield

0.0

%

Weighted-average option grant date fair value

$

16.49

Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are
required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax expense and assessing temporary and permanent differences
resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. In
certain cases, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a
valuation allowance. In the event that actual results differ from these estimates, or we adjust these estimates in future periods, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which
could impact our financial position or results of operations.

As
of December 29, 2007, earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $349.1 million. No provision for U.S. income taxes
has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign
countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

We
are a worldwide business and operate in various tax jurisdictions where tax laws and tax rates are subject to change given the political and economic climate in these countries. We
report and pay income taxes based upon operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates in effect to determine both the current and deferred tax position. Any
significant fluctuation in
rates or in tax laws could cause our estimate of taxes that we anticipate to change. These changes could result in either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

Effective
December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109," which clarifies the accounting for income tax positions by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on the derecognition of previously recognized income tax items, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
financial statement disclosure. Under FIN 48, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the tax position. The tax benefits recognized in our financial statements from such positions are measured on the largest
benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.

Due
to our size and the number of tax jurisdictions within which we conduct our global business operations, we are subject to income tax audits on a regular basis. As a result, we have
tax reserves which are attributable to potential tax obligations around the world. We believe we have sufficiently provided for all audit exposures and assessments. Settlements of these audits or the
expiration of the statute of limitations on the assessment of income taxes for any tax year may result in an increase or reduction of future tax positions.


Segment Operations

The following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of each of our reportable segments for the past three years. They also show cost of
products sold and services provided, selling, general and administrative expenses, amortization of goodwill and intangibles and operating income by segment and as percentages of their respective
segment net sales.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


(dollars in millions)

Net sales:

Research models and services

$

577.2

$

515.0

$

503.2

Preclinical services

653.4

543.4

490.2

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

$

327.9

$

300.9

$

287.6

Preclinical services

424.6

350.9

316.0

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

$

70.3

$

65.9

$

55.5

Preclinical services

93.7

73.0

59.5

Unallocated corporate overhead

53.5

41.9

43.0

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

$

1.9

$

0.5

$

0.3

Preclinical services

31.6

37.2

46.7

Operating income:

Research models and services

$

177.2

$

147.8

$

159.8

Preclinical services

103.5

82.3

67.9

Unallocated corporate overhead

(53.5

)

(41.9

)

(43.0

)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Net sales:

Research models and services

46.9

%

48.7

%

50.6

%

Preclinical services

53.1

%

51.3

%

49.4

%

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

56.8

%

58.4

%

57.2

%

Preclinical services

65.0

%

64.6

%

64.5

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

12.2

%

12.8

%

11.0

%

Preclinical services

14.3

%

13.4

%

12.1

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

—

—

—

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

0.3

%

0.1

%

0.1

Preclinical services

4.8

%

6.8

%

9.5

%

Operating income:

Research models and services

30.7

%

28.7

%

31.8

%

Preclinical services

15.8

%

15.2

%

13.9

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

(4.3

)%

(4.0

)%

(4.3

)%


In
our consolidated statements of income, we provide a breakdown of net sales and cost of sales between net products and services. Such information is reported irrespective of the
business segment from which the sales were generated.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of net sales for the periods shown:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Net sales

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of products sold and services provided

61.1

%

61.6

%

60.8

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses

17.7

%

17.0

%

15.9

%

Amortization of other intangibles

2.7

%

3.6

%

4.7

%

Operating income

18.5

%

17.8

%

18.6

%

Interest income

0.8

%

0.6

%

0.4

%

Interest expense

1.5

%

1.8

%

2.4

%

Provision for income taxes

4.8

%

4.7

%

1.6

%

Minority interests

—

%

0.2

%

0.2

%

Income from continuing operations

12.8

%

11.8

%

14.7

%

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2007 were $1,230.6 million, an increase of $172.2 million, or
16.3%, from $1,058.4 million in 2006.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, net sales from our RMS segment were $577.2 million, an increase of
$62.2 million, or 12.1%, from $515.0 million in 2006. Favorable foreign currency translation increased our net sales gain by 2.9%. RMS sales increased due to pricing and unit volume
increases in both models and services. The RMS sales growth was driven by increases in basic research and
biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our products and services, partially offset by lower sales growth in research models in Japan.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $653.4 million, an increase of
$110.0 million, or 20.2%, compared to $543.4 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the increased customer demand for toxicology and other specialty preclinical services,
reflecting increased customer outsourcing along with the full year impact of the acquisition of Northwest Kinetics. Favorable foreign currency increased sales growth by 2.9%.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 was
$752.4 million, an increase of $100.7 million, or 15.4%, from $651.8 million in 2006. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 was 61.1% of net sales, compared to 61.6%
in 2006.

Research Models and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2007 was $327.9 million, an
increase of $27.0 million, or 9.0%, compared to $300.9 million in 2006. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 decreased to 56.8% of net sales compared to 58.4% of net sales
in 2006. The favorable cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of sales was due to greater facility utilization as a result of increased sales.

Preclinical Services.

Cost of services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in 2007 was $424.6 million, an
increase of $73.6 million, or 21.0%, compared to $350.9 million in 2006. Cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was 65.0% in 2007, compared to 64.6% in 2006. The increase
in cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the impact of increased costs related to the transition to our new Massachusetts facility and the foreign exchange


impact
of the strengthening Canadian dollar, partially offset by improved performance at certain PCS locations.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007
were $217.5 million, an increase of $36.7 million, or 20.3%, from $180.8 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 were 17.7% of net sales compared to
17.1% of net sales in 2006. The increase as a percentage of sales was due primarily to increases in unallocated corporate overhead and charges related to the accelerated exit of our Worcester
facility.

Research Models and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2007 were $70.3 million, an
increase of $4.4 million, or 6.8%, compared to $65.9 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of sales to 12.2% in 2007 from 12.8% in 2006
due mainly to greater economies of scale.

Preclinical Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in 2007 were
$93.7 million, an increase of $20.7 million, or 28.3%, compared to $73.0 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 increased to 14.3% of net sales,
compared to 13.4% of net sales in 2006 due to charges related to the accelerated exit of our Worcester facility.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including those
associated with stock based compensation, pension and departments such as senior executives, corporate accounting, legal, tax, treasury, global informational technology, human resources and investor
relations, was $53.5 million in 2007, compared to $41.9 million in 2006. The increase in unallocated corporate overhead in 2007 was due to increased equity based compensation, higher
information technology costs and higher bonus accruals.

Amortization of Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles in 2007 was
$33.5 million, a decrease of $4.1 million, from $37.6 million in 2006. The decreased amortization was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was $1.9 million, an
increase of $1.4 million from $0.5 million in 2006. The increased amortization was primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 15% of the equity of Charles River Laboratories
Japan, Inc., from the minority interest partner in the first quarter of 2007.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment was
$31.6 million, a decrease of $5.6 million from $37.2 million in 2006. The decrease in amortization of other intangibles was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the
Inveresk acquisition.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2007 was $227.2 million, an increase of
$39.0 million, or 20.7%, from $188.2 million in 2006. Operating income in 2007 was 18.5% of net sales, compared to 17.8% of net sales in 2006. The increase as a percentage of sales was
due primarily to increased operating income margins in RMS along with lower amortization costs.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, operating income for our RMS segment was $177.2 million, an increase of
$29.4 million, or 19.9%, from $147.8 million in 2006. Operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2007 was 30.7%, compared to 28.7% in 2006. The increase in operating income as a
percentage of sales was primarily due to improved capacity utilization resulting from the higher sales volume.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was $103.5 million, an increase
of $21.2 million, or 25.8%, from $82.3 million in 2006. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 15.8%, compared to 15.2% of net sales in 2006. The increase in
operating income as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher sales which resulted in improved operating efficiency and lower amortization costs, partially offset by the
start-up and


transition
costs for our PCS Massachusetts facilities and the foreign exchange impact of the strengthening Canadian dollar.

Interest Income.

Interest income in 2007 was $9.7 million, compared to $6.8 million in
2006. The $2.9 million increase was primarily due to increased funds invested.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2007 was $18.0 million, compared to $19.4 million
in 2006. The $1.4 million decrease was primarily due to debt repayment.

Income Taxes.

Income tax expense for 2007 was $59.4 million, an increase of
$9.7 million compared to $49.7 million in 2006 due mainly to higher income before income tax.

Income from Continuing Operations.

Income from continuing operations in 2007 was
$157.6 million, an increase of $32.3 million from $125.2 million in 2006.

Loss from Discontinued Operations.

The loss from discontinued operations in 2007 was
$3.1 million. The loss from discontinued operations for 2006 was $181.0 million which included a goodwill impairment of $129.2 million, the tax expense of $37.8 million
related to the sale of the Phase II-IV Clinical business, as well as results from our ISS business.

Net Income (Loss).

Net income in 2007 was $154.4 million compared to a net loss of $(55.8)
million in 2006.

Fiscal 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2006 were $1,058.4 million, an increase of $65.1 million, or
6.5%, from $993.3 million in 2005.

Research Models and Services.

In 2006, net sales from our RMS segment were $515.0 million, an increase of
$11.8 million, or 2.4%, from $503.2 million in 2005. Unfavorable foreign currency translation reduced our net sales gain by 0.4%. RMS sales increased due to pricing and unit volume
increases in both models and services. The RMS sales growth was driven by increases in basic research and biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our products and services, partially
offset by continued slowdown in the transgenic services business and lower large model sales.

Preclinical Services.

In 2006, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $543.4 million, an increase of
$53.2 million, or 10.9%, compared to $490.2 million in 2005. The increase was primarily due to the increased customer demand for toxicology and other specialty preclinical services,
reflecting increased drug development efforts and customer outsourcing. Favorable foreign currency increased sales growth by 0.7%.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2006 was
$651.8 million, an increase of $48.2 million, or 8.0%, from $603.6 million in 2005. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2006 was 61.6% of net sales, compared to 60.8%
in 2005 due to stock compensation expense and higher costs in RMS.

Research Models and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2006 was $300.9 million, an
increase of $13.3 million, or 4.6%, compared to $287.6 million in 2005. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2006 increased to 58.4% of net sales compared to 57.2% of net sales
in 2005. The continued slowdown in the transgenic services business, lower large model sales, lower research model sales mainly in Japan, stock compensation expense, second quarter
cost-saving initiatives which included the shutdown of two small vaccine sites and higher delivery costs all adversely impacted the cost of products sold and services provided as a percent
of sales.

Preclinical Services.

Cost of services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in 2006 was $350.9 million, an
increase of $34.9 million, or 11.0%, compared to $316.0 million in 2005. Cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was 64.6% in 2006, compared to 64.5% in 2005. The


increase
in cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to stock compensation expense partially offset by improved capacity utilization resulting from the increased sales
of services.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006
were $180.8 million, an increase of $22.8 million, or 14.4%, from $158.0 million in 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 were 17.1% of net sales compared to
15.9% of net sales in 2005. The increase as a percent of sales was due primarily to the impact of stock compensation expense.

Research Models and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2006 were $65.9 million, an
increase of $10.4 million, or 18.7%, compared to $55.5 million in 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased slightly as a percentage of sales to 12.8% in 2006 from
11.0% in 2005 due mainly to stock compensation expense.

Preclinical Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in 2006 were
$73.0 million, an increase of $13.5 million, or 22.7%, compared to $59.5 million in 2005. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 increased to 13.4% of net sales,
compared to 12.1% of net sales in 2005. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales in 2006 was due primarily to the increased stock compensation expense.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including those
associated with stock based compensation, pension, and departments such as senior executives, corporate accounting, legal, tax, treasury, human resources and investor relations, was
$41.9 million in 2006, compared to $43.0 million in 2005. The decrease in unallocated corporate overhead in 2006 was due to reduced restricted stock compensation expense.

Amortization of Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles in 2006 was
$37.6 million, a decrease of $9.4 million, from $47.0 million in 2005. The decreased amortization was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Research Models and Services.

In 2006, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was $0.5 million, an
increase of $0.2 million from $0.3 million in 2005.

Preclinical Services.

In 2006, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment was
$37.2 million, a decrease of $9.5 million from $46.7 million in 2005. The decrease in amortization of other intangibles was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the
Inveresk acquisition.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2006 was $188.2 million, an increase of
$3.5 million, or 1.9%, from $184.7 million in 2005. Operating income in 2006 was 17.8% of net sales, compared to 18.6% of net sales in 2005. The decrease as a percent of sales was due
primarily to stock compensation expense.

Research Models and Services.

In 2006, operating income for our RMS segment was $147.8 million, an decrease of
$12.0 million, or 7.5%, from $159.8 million in 2005. Operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2006 was 28.7%, compared to 31.8% in 2005. The decrease in operating income as a
percent to sales was primarily due to increase in cost of products sold and services provided due to stock compensation expense, the slowdown in the Transgenic Services business and lower large model
sales.

Preclinical Services.

In 2006, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was $82.3 million, an increase of
$14.4 million, or 21.2%, from $67.9 million in 2005. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 15.1%, compared to 13.9% of net sales in 2005. The increase in operating
income as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher sales which resulted in improved operating efficiency and lower amortization costs, partially offset by stock compensation expense and
cost-saving initiatives.


Interest Income.

Interest income in 2006 was $6.8 million, compared to $3.7 million in
2005. The $3.1 million increase was primarily due to increased funds invested.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2006 was $19.4 million, compared to $24.3 million
in 2005. The $4.9 million decrease was primarily due to debt repayment.

Income Taxes.

Income tax expense for 2006 was $49.7 million an increase of
$33.4 million compared to $16.3 million in 2005. The increase was primarily attributable to the one time 2005 net benefit of $28.3 million or 17.3%, from the effects of a
distribution under the AJCA of $24.1 million and the 2005 change of the Company's assertion with respect to the remaining Inveresk pre-acquisition earnings of $29.2 million,
offset by the 2005 tax charge related to the Company's restructuring of its UK operations as a part of the plan of distribution of $23.1 million and a charge of $1.9 million related to
the write off of deferred tax assets.

Income from Continuing Operations.

Income from continuing operations in 2006 was
$125.2 million, a decrease of $20.6 million from $145.8 million in 2005.

Loss from Discontinued Operations.

The loss from discontinued operations was $181.0 million
due mainly to the goodwill impairment in the first quarter.

Net Income (Loss).

Net income (loss) in 2006 was $(55.8) million compared to $142.0 in 2005.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following discussion analyzes liquidity and capital resources by operating, investing and financing activities as presented in our condensed consolidated
statements of cash flows.

Our
principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flow from operations, the convertible debt offering, our marketable securities and our revolving line of credit arrangements.

On
June 12, 2006, we issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes (the 2013 Notes) in a private placement with net proceeds to
the Company of $343.0 million. The 2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature on June 15, 2013. The 2013 Notes are convertible into cash
and shares of common stock (or, at the Company's election, cash in lieu of some or all of such common stock) based on an initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment, of 20.4337 shares of common
stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $48.94 per share).

Concurrently
with the sale of the 2013 Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to our obligation to deliver common stock under the 2013 Notes. The
convertible note hedges give us the right to receive, for no additional consideration, the numbers of shares of common stock that we are obligated to deliver upon conversion of the 2013 Notes (subject
to antidilution adjustments substantially identical to those in the 2013 Notes), and expire on June 15, 2013. The aggregate cost of these convertible note hedges was $98.3 million.

Separately
and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, we issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of our common stock. The warrants give the holders the
right to receive, for no additional consideration, cash or shares (at our option) with a value equal to the appreciation in the price of our shares above $59.925, and expire between
September 13, 2013 and January 22, 2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants were $65.4 million.

From
our economic perspective, the cumulative impact of the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants increases the effective conversion price of the 2013
Notes from $48.94 to $59.25 per share.

On
July 31, 2006, we amended and restated our $660.0 million credit agreement to reduce the current interest rate, modify certain restrictive covenants and extend the term.
The amount of debt


outstanding
under the original $660.0 million credit agreement remained the same at the time of amendment. The now $428.0 million credit agreement provides for a $156.0 million
U.S. term loan facility, a $200.0 million U.S. revolving facility, a C$57.8 million term loan facility and a C$12.0 million revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary, and a GBP
6.0 million revolving facility for a U.K. subsidiary. The $156.0 million term loan facility matures in 20 quarterly installments with the last installment due June 30, 2011. As of
December 29, 2007, we had $109.2 million outstanding on the U.S. term loan. The $200.0 million U.S. revolving facility matures on July 31, 2011 and requires no scheduled
payment before that date. Under specified circumstances, the $200.0 million U.S. revolving facility may be increased by $100.0 million. The Canadian term loan was repaid
during 2007. The Canadian and U.K. revolving facilities mature on July 31, 2011 and require no scheduled prepayment before that date. The interest rate applicable to the Canadian term
loan and the Canadian and U.K. revolving loans under the credit agreement is the adjusted LIBOR rate in its relevant currency plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio. The interest
rates applicable to term loans and revolving loans under the credit agreement are, at our option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus
0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio. Based on our leverage ratio, the margin range for LIBOR based loans is 0.625% to 0.875%. The interest rate
margin was 0.75% as of December 29, 2007. We have pledged the stock of certain subsidiaries as well as certain U.S. assets as security for the $428.0 million credit agreement. The
$428.0 million credit agreement includes certain customary representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. We had $5.5 million and
$5.4 million outstanding under letters of credit as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. During 2007, we did not borrow under our revolving credit facilities.
As of December 29, 2007, there were no outstanding balances on the revolving facilities.

On
July 27, 2005, we entered into a $50 million credit agreement ($50 million credit agreement), which was subsequently amended on December 20, 2005 and again
on July 31, 2006 to reflect substantially the same modifications made to the covenants in the $660 million and $428 million credit agreements, respectively. On June 15,
2007, we executed a third amendment to the $50 million credit agreement to extend the maturity date and reduce the interest rate. The $50 million credit agreement provides for a
$50 million term loan facility which matures on June 22, 2010. Prior to the amendment, the interest rate applicable to term loans under the credit agreement was, at our option, equal to
either the base rate (which was the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. From June 15, 2007 through June 21, 2008, the interest
rates applicable to term loans under the credit agreement are, at our option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) minus 2.25% or
the LIBOR rate plus 0.50%. Commencing June 22, 2008 through June 22, 2010, the applicable interest rates are equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the
federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based on our leverage ratio. The $50 million credit agreement includes certain customary representations
and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. As of December 29, 2007, the entire balance of the $50 million credit agreement was outstanding.

Our
Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently amended on October 26, 2005, May 9, 2006
and August 1, 2007, to acquire up to a total of $400.0 million of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date. In order to
facilitate these share repurchases, the Company has entered into Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plans. As of December 29, 2007, approximately $96.4 million remained authorized
for share repurchases.

We
had marketable securities of $63.4 million and $111.4 million as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. The decline was primarily due to
funding our capital expansion program. As of December 29, 2007, we had $38.2 million invested in auction rate securities rated AAA by a major credit rating agency. Our auction rate
securities are guaranteed by U.S. federal agencies or commercial insurance carriers.


As
of February 13, 2008 we had $21.2 million of our investment portfolio invested in AAA rated and government guaranteed auction rate securities. The current overall credit
concerns in capital markets may impact our ability to liquidate these securities. These auction rate securities provide liquidity via an auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at
predetermined calendar intervals, usually every 35 days. If the auctions for the securities we own fail, the investments may not be readily convertible to cash until a future auction of these
investments is successful. During the first quarter of 2008, auctions for $14.2 million of our investments in auction rate securities failed. Based on our ability to access our cash and other
short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows, and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to operate our
business as usual.

Cash
and cash equivalents totaled $225.4 million at December 29, 2007, compared to $175.4 million at December 30, 2006.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2007 and 2006 was $288.4 million and $176.0 million, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operations was primarily
due to increased income from continuing operations as well as changes in accounts receivable and deferred income. Our days sales outstanding decreased to 35 days as of December 29, 2007,
from 39 days as of December 30, 2006 due mainly to increased deferred revenue. Our days sales outstanding includes deferred revenue as an offset to accounts receivable in the
calculation.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2007 and 2006 was $200.8 million and $297.4 million, respectively. Our capital expenditures in 2007 were $227.0 million of
which $51.0 million was related to RMS and $176.0 million to Preclinical Services. For 2008, we project capital expenditures to be in the range of $220—$240 million.
We anticipate that future capital expenditures will be funded by operating activities and existing credit facilities.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2007 was $46.4 million and cash provided by financing activities in 2006 was $5.6 million. During 2007, we purchased
$41.6 million of treasury stock and repaid
$64.5 million of debt, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $54.0 million. During 2006, we received proceeds of $440.3 million of
long-term debt, partially offset by our purchase of $250.0 million of treasury stock and our repayment of debt of $170.8 million.

Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 29, 2007 are as follows:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1—3 Years

3—5 Years

After

5 Years

Debt

$

510.0

$

25.1

$

111.5

$

23.4

$

350.0

Interest payments

71.6

17.0

30.0

24.6

—

Operating leases

83.4

24.9

27.7

10.7

20.1

Pension

77.2

6.1

11.0

13.5

46.6

Construction commitments

99.5

99.5

—

—

—

Total contractual cash obligations

$

841.7

$

172.6

$

180.2

$

72.2

$

416.7

The
above table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $22.1 million the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The conversion features of our 2013 Notes are equity-linked derivatives. As such, we recognize these instruments as off-balance sheet arrangements.
The conversion features associated with these notes would be accounted for as derivative instruments, except that they are indexed to our common stock and classified in stockholders' equity.
Therefore, these instruments meet the scope of exception of paragraph 11(a) of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities," and are accordingly not
accounted for as derivatives for purposes of SFAS No. 133.


Recent Accounting Pronouncements

The FASB has issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS No. 109" ("FIN 48"), which
clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Prior to the effective date of FIN 48, the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes was subject to significant and varied
interpretations that have resulted in diverse and inconsistent accounting practices and measurements. Addressing such diversity, FIN 48 prescribes a consistent recognition threshold and
measurement attribute, as well as clear criteria for subsequently recognizing, derecognizing and measuring changes in such tax positions for financial statement purposes. FIN 48 also requires
expanded disclosure with respect to the uncertainty in income taxes. FIN 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We adopted the provisions of FIN 48
effective December 31, 2006 which did not have a significant impact on its consolidated financial results.

We
adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158") as of December 30, 2006. SFAS 158 includes two phases of implementation. The second phase of SFAS 158
requires that the valuation date of plan accounts be as of the end of the fiscal year, with that change required to be implemented by fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. We have
changed the valuation date relating to foreign plans which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets a framework for
measuring fair value and expands on required disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be applied
prospectively. In February 2008, the FASB issued a Staff Position that will (1) partially defer the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities and (2) remove certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157. The provisions of SFAS 157 are not expected to have a material impact on the our
consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities—Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115"
("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 allows companies to elect to follow fair value accounting for certain financial assets and liabilities in an effort to mitigate volatility in earnings without
having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. SFAS 159 is applicable only to certain financial instruments and is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The
provisions of SFAS 159 are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations ("SFAS 141(R)") and No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
("SFAS 160"). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 introduce significant changes in the accounting for and reporting of business acquisitions and noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary.
SFAS 141(R) continues the movement toward the greater use of fair values in financial reporting and increased transparency through expanded disclosures. SFAS 141(R) changes how business
acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. In addition, SFAS 141(R) will impact the annual goodwill impairment test
associated with acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date. SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on
or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply SFAS 141(R) before that date. We are evaluating the impact of adopting the provisions of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 on our
financial position and results of operations.


Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Certain of our financial instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rates. We generally do not use
financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

The fair value of our marketable securities is subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase. If market rates were to
increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels at December 29, 2007, then the fair value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $0.4 million.

We
have entered into two credit agreements, the $428 million credit agreement (prior to July 31, 2006, the $660 million credit agreement) and the $50 million
credit agreement. Our primary interest rate exposure results from changes in LIBOR or the base rates which are used to determine the applicable interest rates under our term loans in the
$428 million credit agreement and in the $50 million agreement and our revolving credit facilities. Our potential additional interest expense over one year that would result from a
hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate would be approximately $3.8 million on a pre-tax basis. The book value of our debt
approximates fair value.

We
issued $350 million of the 2013 Notes in a private placement in the second quarter of 2006. The convertible senior debenture notes bear an interest rate of 2.25%. The fair
market value of the outstanding notes was $514.5 million on December 29, 2007.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our earnings and cash flows. This risk is mitigated by the
fact that various foreign operations are principally conducted in their respective local currencies. However, a portion of our foreign operations' revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, with the
costs accounted for in their local currencies. We attempt to minimize this exposure by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in accordance with our overall risk
management and our hedge policy. In accordance with our hedge policy, we designate certain transactions as hedges as set forth in SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities."

During
2007, we utilized foreign exchange contracts, principally to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on customer transactions and certain balance sheet items. No foreign
exchange contracts were outstanding on December 29, 2007.


Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Management


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Supplementary Data:

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)



Report of Management

Management's
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The
management of the company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) or 15(d)-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal
executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company's board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:

•

Pertain
to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

•

Provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and

•

Provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material
effect on the financial statements.

Internal
control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over
financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over financial
reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Because of such limitations, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely
basis by internal control over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process
safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The
Company's management assessed the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007. In making this assessment, the company's
management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—Integrated Framework.

Based
on this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 29, 2007, the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.

Our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as
stated within their report which appears herein.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.:

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Charles River
Laboratories International, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 29, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements and for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting
based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness
of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

As
discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for share-based payments on
January 1, 2006. Also as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other post retirement
obligations as of December 30, 2006. In addition, as discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax
positions as of January 1, 2007.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston,
Massachusetts

February 20, 2008


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Net sales related to products

$

415,247

$

374,832

$

364,303

Net sales related to services

815,379

683,553

629,025

Net sales

1,230,626

1,058,385

993,328

Costs and expenses

Cost of products sold

225,088

211,008

199,517

Cost of services provided

527,347

440,770

404,107

Selling, general and administrative

217,491

180,795

157,999

Amortization of other intangibles

33,509

37,639

47,011

Operating income

227,191

188,173

184,694

Other income (expense)

Interest income

9,683

6,836

3,695

Interest expense

(18,004

)

(19,426

)

(24,324

)

Other, net

(1,448

)


(177

)

Income before income taxes and minority interests

217,422

176,564

163,888

Provision for income taxes

59,400

49,738

16,261

Income before minority interests

158,022

126,826

147,627

Minority interests

(470

)

(1,605

)

(1,838

)

Income from continuing operations

157,552

125,221

145,789

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax

(3,146

)

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

Net income (loss)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic:

Continuing operations

$

2.35

$

1.82

$

2.09

Discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

Net income (loss)

$

2.31

$

(0.81

)

$

2.04

Diluted:

Continuing operations

$

2.29

$

1.79

$

2.02

Discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

Net income (loss)

$

2.25

$

(0.80

)

$

1.96

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

225,449

$

175,380

Trade receivables, net

213,908

202,658

Inventories

88,023

72,362

Other current assets

79,477

44,363

Current assets of discontinued operations

1,007

6,330

Total current assets

607,864

501,093

Property, plant and equipment, net

748,793

534,745

Goodwill, net

1,120,540

1,119,309

Other intangibles, net

148,905

160,204

Deferred tax asset

89,255

107,498

Other assets

85,993

133,944

Long term assets of discontinued operations

4,187


Total assets

$

2,805,537

$

2,557,544

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities

Current portion of long-term debt

$

25,051

$

24,970

Accounts payable

36,715

28,223

Accrued compensation

53,359

41,651

Deferred revenue

102,021

93,197

Accrued liabilities

61,366

41,991

Other current liabilities

23,268

25,632

Current liabilities of discontinued operations


3,667

Total current liabilities

302,528

259,331

Long-term debt

484,998

547,084

Other long-term liabilities

154,044

146,695

Total liabilities

941,570

953,110

Commitments and contingencies

Minority interests

3,500

9,223

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 120,000,000 shares authorized; 75,427,649 issued and 68,135,324 shares outstanding at December 29, 2007 and 73,416,303 issued and 66,919,634 shares outstanding at December 30,



Capital in excess of par value

1,906,997

1,818,138

Retained earnings

177,529

23,123

Treasury stock, at cost, 7,292,325 shares and 6,496,669 shares at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively

(310,372

)

(267,955

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

85,559

21,171

Total shareholders' equity

1,860,467

1,595,211

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

2,805,537

$

2,557,544

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income (loss)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

Less: Loss from discontinued operations

(3,146

)

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

Income from continuing operations

157,552

125,221

145,789

Adjustments to reconcile net income from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

86,379

82,586

87,935

Impairment charge

3,088

2,774

—

Amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts

2,522

2,499

2,135

Amortization of premiums on marketable securities




Provision for doubtful accounts




Minority interests


1,605

1,838

Deferred income taxes

(9,786

)

4,035

(39,230

)

(Gain) loss on disposal of property, plant, and equipment

(1,672

)

1,242


Non-cash compensation

26,017

21,090

16,974

Loss (gain) on trading securities

4,139

(6,510

)

—

Tax benefit from exercise of stock options

—

—

8,767

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Trade receivables

(492

)

(18,961

)

(14,315

)

Inventories

(12,988

)

(6,475

)

(5,918

)

Other current assets

(7,361

)

(8,024

)

3,455

Other assets

(1,696

)

(11,115

)

(241

)

Accounts payable

2,076

(2,586

)

2,248

Accrued compensation

9,445

(414

)

(2,798

)

Deferred revenue

8,736

(2,967

)

6,159

Accrued liabilities

3,442

(8,493

)

(5,158

)

Other current liabilities

9,302

(15,141

)

20,525

Other long-term liabilities

8,743

15,558

(11,680

)

Net cash provided by operating activities

288,425

175,973

216,784

Cash flows relating to investing activities

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

(11,584

)

(30,862

)

(3,400

)

Capital expenditures

(227,036

)

(181,747

)

(94,520

)

Purchases of marketable securities

(299,408

)

(207,900

)

(15,580

)

Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment

2,668



Proceeds from sale of marketable securities

334,546

122,981


Net cash used in investing activities

(200,814

)

(297,398

)

(112,963

)

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from long-term debt and revolving credit agreement

—

440,300

133,700

Payments on long-term debt, capital lease obligation and revolving credit agreement

(64,545

)

(170,842

)

(337,305

)

Purchase of call option

—

(98,110

)

—

Proceeds from exercises of warrants



1,136

Proceeds from issuance of warrants

—

65,423

—

Proceeds from exercises of employee stock options

53,963

22,821

25,987

Excess tax benefit from exercises of employee stock options

7,150

6,540

—

Dividends paid to minority interests

(1,357

)

(1,916

)

(1,400

)

Purchase of treasury stock

(41,617

)

(249,958

)

(17,997

)

Payment of deferred financing costs

(35

)

(8,769

)


Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(46,427

)

5,568

(195,240

)

Discontinued operations

Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities

(4,177

)

(11,603

)

17,764

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities


189,406

(1,030

)

Net cash used in financing activities

—

(182

)

(182

)

Net cash (used in) provided by discontinued operations

(4,147

)

177,621

16,552

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

13,032

(1,205

)

(17,878

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

50,069

60,559

(92,745

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

175,380

114,821

207,566

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

225,449

$

175,380

$

114,821

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for interest

$

20,110

$

22,992

$

21,776

Cash paid for taxes

$

38,448

$

93,109

$

10,074

Supplemental non-cash investing activities information

Conversion of senior convertible debenture to common stock

$

—

$

—

$

198,020

Capitalized interest

$

4,716

$

4,107

$


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

Total

Accumulated

(Deficit)

Earnings

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess

of Par

Treasury

Stock

Unearned

Compensation

Balance at December 25, 2004

$

1,472,505

$

(63,093

)

$

27,693

$


$

1,518,854

$

—

$

(11,607

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

141,999

141,999

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(19,444

)

—

(19,444

)

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment


—


—

—

—

—

Unrealized loss on marketable securities

(40

)

—

(40

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on hedging activities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

122,846

—

—

—

—

—

—

Exercise of stock options

25,987

—

—


25,976

—

—

Acceleration of stock options

1,556

—

—

—

1,556

—

—

Tax benefit from exercise of stock options

7,597

—

—

—

7,597

—

—

Exercise of warrants

1,136

—

—


1,134

—

—

Issuance of restricted stock to employees

—

—

—


24,591

—

(24,596

)

Amortization of unearned compensation

15,363

—

—

—

(55

)

—

15,418

Purchase of treasury shares

(17,997

)

—

—

—

—

(17,997

)

—

Conversion of convertible debentures

198,020

—

—


197,972

—

—

Balance at December 31, 2005

$

1,827,013

$

78,906

$

8,540

$


$

1,777,625

$

(17,997

)

$

(20,785

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net (loss)

(55,783

)

(55,783

)

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

12,335

—

12,335

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(195

)

—

(195

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on marketable securities


—


—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

(43,632

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Adjustment to initially apply SFAS No. 158, net of tax


—


—

—

—

—

Tax benefit associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

5,714

—

—

—

5,714

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock under employee compensation plans

22,821

—

—


22,811

—

—

Acquisition of treasury shares

(249,958

)

—

—

—

(249,958

)

—

Stock-based compensation

21,866

—

—

—

21,866

—

—

Purchase of hedge on convertible debt

(98,110

)

—

—

—

(98,110

)

—

—

Issuance of warrants

65,423

—

—

—

65,423

—

—

Deferred tax assets

43,515

—

—

—

43,515

—

—

Reversal of unearned compensation upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)

—

—

—

(20,785

)

—

20,785

Balance at December 30, 2006

$

1,595,211

$

23,123

$

21,171

$


$

1,818,138

$

(267,955

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

154,406

154,406

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

57,872

—

57,872

—

—

—

—

Amortization of unrecognized pension, net gain/loss and prior service costs

6,564

6,564

Unrealized loss on marketable securities

(48

)

—

(48

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

218,794

—

—

—

—

—

—

Tax benefit associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

8,727

—

—

—

8,727

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock under employee compensation plans

54,121

—

—


54,101

—

—

Acquisition of treasury shares

(42,417

)

—

—

—

—

(42,417

)

—

Stock-based compensation

26,017

—

26,017

—

—

Balance at December 29, 2007

$

1,860,467

$

177,529

$

85,559

$


$

1,906,997

$

(310,372

)

$

—

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) is a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the
drug discovery and development process including research models and associated services, and outsourced preclinical services. The Company's fiscal year is the twelve-month period ending the last
Saturday in December.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts, transactions and profits are eliminated. Results for two
majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded on a one-month lag basis. There were no material transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date and December 29,
2007.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year statements to conform to the current year presentation. These reclassifications have no impact on period
reported net income or cash flow.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, as such, include amounts based on informed estimates
and judgments of management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the purchase date of three months or less.

Trade Receivables and Concentrations of Credit Risk

The Company records trade receivables net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts which it believes is
adequate to cover anticipated losses on the collection of all outstanding trade receivable balances. The adequacy of the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information, a review of
major customer accounts receivable balances and management's assessment of current economic conditions. The Company reassesses the allowance for doubtful accounts each quarter. Provisions to the
allowance for doubtful accounts amount to $494 in 2007 and $928 in 2006. Write offs to the allowance for doubtful accounts amounted to $421 in 2007 and $98 in 2006.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of net trade receivables is as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Customer receivables

$

165,057

$

156,411

Unbilled revenue

52,033

49,356

Total

217,090

205,767

Less allowance for doubtful accounts

(3,182

)

(3,109

)

Net trade receivables

$

213,908

$

202,658

Financial
instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables from customers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries. The Company believes its exposure to credit risk to be minimal, as these industries have experienced significant growth and the customers are predominantly well established and viable.

Marketable Securities

The Company accounts for its investment in marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." Investments in marketable securities are reported at fair value and consist of corporate debt securities and government securities
and obligations which are classified as securities available for sale and mutual funds which are classified as actively traded.

Realized
gains and losses on securities are included in earnings and are determined using the specific identification method. Unrealized holding gains and losses on securities classified
as available for sale, are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. Unrealized gains and losses on actively traded securities are
included in earnings. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included in interest
income.

As
of December 29, 2007, the Company held $38,175 in auction rate securities which are variable rate debt instruments, which bear interest rates that reset approximately every
35 days. The auction rate securities owned by the Company were rated AAA by a major credit rating agency and are either commercially insured or guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan
Program (FFELP). The underlying securities have contractual maturities which are generally greater than ten years. The auction rate securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at
fair value. Typically, the carrying value of auction rate securities approximates fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. The Company has classified these investments as
long-term consistent with the term of the underlying security which are structured with short term interest rate reset dates of generally 35 days but with contractual maturities that are long
term.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally on the average cost method, or market. The determination of market value involves assessment
of numerous factors, including costs to dispose of inventory and estimated selling price. Inventory costs for small models are based upon the average cost to produce specific models and strains. Costs
for large models are accumulated in


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

inventory
by specific model. Inventory costs for both small and large models are charged to cost of sales in the period the models are sold. Reserves are recorded to reduce the carrying value for
inventory determined damaged, obsolete or otherwise unsaleable.

The
composition of inventories is as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Raw materials and supplies

$

13,139

$

11,715

Work in process

9,794

6,107

Finished products

65,090

54,540

Inventories

$

88,023

$

72,362

Other Current Assets

Other current assets consist of assets the Company intends to settle within the next twelve months.

December 29,


December 30,


Prepaid assets

$

26,087

$

19,686

Deferred tax asset

25,506

10,176

Marketable securities

14,958

7,450

Prepaid income tax

7,214

7,051

Restricted cash

3,493

—

Other

2,219

—

Other current assets

$

79,477

$

44,363

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, including improvements that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are recorded at cost, while maintenance
and repairs are expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest and period costs on certain capital projects which amounted to $4,716 and $5,484 in 2007, $4,107 and $2,904 in 2006 and $810 and
$191 in 2005, respectively. The Company also capitalizes internal and external cost incurred during the application development stage of internal use software. Depreciation is calculated for financial
reporting purposes using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: buildings, 20 to 40 years; machinery and equipment, 3 to
20 years; furniture and fixtures, 5 to 10 years; vehicles, 3 to 5 years; and leasehold improvements, the shorter of estimated useful life or the lease periods. The Company begins
to depreciate capital projects in the first full month the asset is placed in service.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of net property, plant and equipment is as follows:

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Land

$

35,934

$

16,173

Buildings

518,090

339,786

Machinery and equipment

337,215

280,126

Leasehold improvements

17,139

16,248

Furniture and fixtures

7,734

6,790

Vehicles

5,042

4,843

Construction in progress

199,399

186,105

Total

1,120,553

850,071

Less accumulated depreciation

(371,760

)

(315,326

)

Net property, plant and equipment

$

748,793

$

534,745

Depreciation
expense for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $52,870, $44,947 and $40,924, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which establishes
financial accounting and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are no longer
amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives.

The
Company tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances occur as required under the provisions of SFAS No. 142. Goodwill is considered to be
impaired when the net book value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. During 2007, the Company performed its annual impairment test of goodwill and concluded there was no impairment.
As a result of the decision to divest the Phase II-IV Clinical business in the first quarter of 2006, the Company preformed a goodwill impairment test assuming sale of the
Phase II-IV Clinical business and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $129,187 in discontinued operations. For the Company's remaining goodwill, an annual impairment test was
performed for 2006 and concluded there was no additional goodwill impairment.

Intangible
assets deemed to have an indefinite life are tested for impairment using a one-step process which compares the fair value to the carrying amount of the asset. The
Company completed the annual impairment tests in 2007 and 2006 and concluded there was no impairment of identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Other Assets

Other assets consist of assets that the Company does not intend to settle within the next twelve months.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of other assets is as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Deferred financing costs

$

8,632

$

11,120

Cash surrender value of life insurance policies

22,027

14,360

Long term marketable securities

48,457

103,922

Other assets

6,877

4,542

Other assets

$

85,993

$

133,944

Accounting for Investment in Life Insurance Contracts

The Company accounts for its investments in life insurance contracts in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. FTB 85-4,

Accounting for Life Settlement Contracts
by Third-Party Investors

using the fair value method. Under the fair value method, the Company recognizes the
initial investment at the transaction price and remeasures the investment at fair value each reporting period. Investments in life contracts are reported as part of purchases of marketable securities
in the statement of cash flows. At December 29, 2007, the Company held 66 contracts with a carrying value of $22,027 and a face value of $128,812.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," the Company evaluates long-lived
assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash
flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, additional analysis is performed and the carrying value of
long-lived assets is reduced to the estimated fair value, if this is lower, as determined using an appraisal or discounted cash flows, as appropriate.

During
2007, the Company closed its Worcester, MA facility and recorded an impairment charge of $2,970 to reduce the value to the estimated fair value. The building has been classified
as held for sale and is included in other current asset on the consolidated balance sheet.

Restructuring and Contract Termination Costs

The Company recognizes obligations associated with restructuring activities and contract termination costs in accordance with SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for
Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS 146 requires a liability at fair value for the costs associated with an exit or disposal activity as well as costs to terminate a
contract or an operating lease. The overall purpose of the Company's restructuring actions is to lower overall operating costs and improve profitability by reducing excess capacities. Restructuring
charges are typically recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the period in which the plan is approved by the Company's senior management and, where material, the Company's Board
of Directors, and when the liability is incurred. A liability for costs that will continue to be incurred under a contract for its remaining term without economic benefit to the entity is recognized
and measured at its fair value when the entity ceases using the right conveyed by the contract.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

During
2007, the Company ceased using a leased facility in Worcester, MA and recorded a charge of $2,793 for the cost to terminate this operating lease.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities consist of liabilities the Company intends to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other current liabilities is as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Accrued income taxes

$

21,438

$

23,048

Current deferred tax liability

1,347

2,149

Accrued interest and other



Other current liabilities

$

23,268

$

25,632

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities consist of liabilities the Company does not intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other long-term liabilities is as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Deferred tax liability

$

70,914

$

56,372

Long-term pension liability

35,729

49,553

Accrued Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan and Deferred Compensation Plan

29,293

29,262

Other long-term liabilities

18,108

11,508

Other long-term liabilities

$

154,044

$

146,695

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company had followed Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related
interpretations, which resulted in accounting for grants and awards to employees at their intrinsic value in the consolidated financial statements. On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS
No. 123(R) ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," using the modified prospective application transition method, which results in
the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) being applied to the consolidated financial statements on a going-forward basis. Prior periods have not been restated. Under SFAS No. 123(R), the
Company is required to record compensation cost for all share-based payments granted after the date of adoption based on the grant date fair value, estimated in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 123(R), and for the unvested portion of all share-based payments previously granted that remain outstanding based on the grant date fair value, estimated in accordance with the original
provisions of SFAS 123. The estimated fair value of the Company's stock-based awards is expensed on a straight-line basis over the service period.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Revenue Recognition

The Company recognizes revenue related to its products and services in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, "Revenue
Recognition."

The
Company recognizes revenue related to its products, which include research models, in vitro technology and vaccine support products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement
exists, generally in the form of customer purchase orders, title and risk of loss have transferred, which occurs upon delivery of the products, the sales price is fixed and determinable and
collectibility is reasonably assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the product is delivered to the customer's site. Product sales are recorded net of returns upon delivery. For large
models in some cases customers pay in advance of delivery of the product. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue upon delivery of the product.

The
Company's service revenue is comprised of toxicology, pathology, laboratory, clinical Phase I trials, transgenic and contract staffing services and is generally evidenced by
customer contracts. Toxicology services provide highly specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. Pathology services
provide the ability to identify and characterize pathologic changes within tissues and cells in determining the safety of a new compound. Laboratory services monitor and analyze the health and
genetics of research models used in research protocols. Clinical Phase I conducts tolerability assessments to explore human pharmacology. Transgenic services include validating, maintaining,
breeding and testing research models for biomedical research activities. Contract staffing services provide management of animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and
biotechnology organizations.

The
toxicology, pathology and clinical Phase I trials services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up to approximately 24 months in length.
These agreements are negotiated for a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic and
contract staffing
services are of a longer-term nature, from six months to five years, and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified in the contract.

The
Company's service revenues are recognized upon the Company's completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance criteria are generally in the form of either study
protocols or specified activities or procedures which the Company is engaged to perform. These performance criteria are established by the Company's customers and do not contain acceptance provisions
which are based upon the achievement of certain study or laboratory testing results. Revenue of agreed upon rate contracts is recognized as services are performed, based upon rates specified in the
contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete procedures specified by customers in the form of study protocols.

Deferred
and unbilled revenue is recognized in the consolidated balance sheets. In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These advances
are deferred and recognized as revenue as services are performed. Revenue is recognized on unbilled services and relate to amounts that are currently unbillable to the customer pursuant to contractual
terms. In general, such amounts become billable in accordance with predetermined payment schedules, but are recognized as revenue as services are performed.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Guarantees

The Company includes standard indemnification provisions in its customer contracts, which include standard provisions limiting the Company's liability under such
contracts, including the Company's indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

The Company follows the requirements of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," which establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and used for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designed for hedging
relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, all changes in the fair value of the derivative and changes
in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of
the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of operations when the hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective
portions of both fair value and cash flow hedges are immediately recognized as earnings. The Company recorded a hedge gain (loss) of $1,603 in 2007, $(66) in 2006 and $337 in 2005.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of the Company's significant financial instruments, which include cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable and accounts
payable, approximate their fair values at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006. The fair value of the Company's financing instruments was $514,500 and $572,054 based on market rates
at December 29, 2007 and December 30 2006 respectively.

Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The asset and liability approach underlying SFAS
No. 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of the
Company's assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items will expire before the Company is able to realize their
benefits or that their future deductibility is uncertain.

Effective
December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109," which clarifies the accounting for income tax positions by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on the derecognition of previously recognized income tax items, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
financial statement disclosure. Under FIN 48, the Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained
upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the tax position. The tax benefits recognized in our financial statements from such positions are measured on the largest
benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currencies of the Company's operating foreign subsidiaries are in local currency. In accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency
Translation," the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income, expenses and cash flows
at average exchange rates; and shareholders' equity at historical exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the
accompanying balance sheet. Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded as other income or expense. The Company recorded an exchange gain (loss) of $(3,959) in 2007, $170
in 2006 and $(1,024) in 2005.

Comprehensive Income

The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." As it relates to the Company,
comprehensive income is defined as net income plus the sum of the changes in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities, unrealized gains (losses) on
hedging activities, foreign currency translation adjustments and amortization of unrecognized pension gains and losses and prior service costs and credits (collectively, other comprehensive income)
and is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, net of tax.

Pension Obligations

The Company recognizes obligations associated with its defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers Accounting for Pensions."
Assets, liabilities and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As required by SFAS No. 87, the Company is required to make certain assumptions to value the plan assets and
liabilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually, or whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on reviews of current plan information and consultations with independent investment
advisors and actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high degree of judgment and may materially change from period to period. The Company does not offer other defined benefits associated
with post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions.

The
Company adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" as of December 30, 2006. This statement requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the funded status of
a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains, losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period that
are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date
of the employer's fiscal year-end balance sheet; and disclose in the notes to financial statements additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next
fiscal year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or obligation.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share are
calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common
shares had been issued.

Discontinued Operations

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the results of discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes (benefit), are reported as a separate component in
the accompanying statement of income for the current and prior periods. The statement of cash flows also reflects separate disclosure of cash flows pertaining to discontinued operations consistently
for all periods presented.

New Accounting Pronouncements

The FASB has issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of SFAS No. 109" ("FIN 48"), which
clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Prior to the effective date of FIN 48, the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes was subject to significant and varied
interpretations that have resulted in diverse and inconsistent accounting practices and measurements. Addressing such diversity, FIN 48 prescribes a consistent recognition threshold and
measurement attribute, as well as clear criteria for subsequently recognizing, derecognizing and measuring changes in such tax positions for financial statement purposes. FIN 48 also requires
expanded disclosure with respect to the uncertainty in income taxes. FIN 48 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 effective December 31, 2006 which did not have a significant impact on its
consolidated financial results.

The
Company adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS 158") as of December 30, 2006. SFAS 158 includes two phases of implementation. The second phase of
SFAS 158 requires that the valuation date of plan accounts be as of the end of the fiscal year, with that change required to be implemented by fiscal years ending after December 15,
2008. The Company will change the valuation date relating to its foreign plans which will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS 157"). SFAS 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out framework for
measuring fair value and expands on required disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be applied
prospectively. In February 2008, the FASB issued a Staff Position that will (1) partially defer the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities and (2) remove certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157. The provisions of SFAS 157 are not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities—Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115"
("SFAS 159"). SFAS 159 allows companies to elect to follow fair value accounting for certain financial assets and liabilities in an effort


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

to
mitigate volatility in earnings without having to apply complex hedge accounting provisions. SFAS 159 is applicable only to certain financial instruments and is effective for fiscal years
beginning after November 15, 2007. The provisions of SFAS 159 are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations ("SFAS 141(R)") and No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
("SFAS 160"). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 introduce significant changes in the accounting for and reporting of business acquisitions and noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary.
SFAS 141(R) continues the movement toward the greater use of fair values in financial reporting and increased transparency through expanded disclosures. SFAS 141(R) changes how business
acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. In addition, SFAS 141(R) will impact the annual goodwill impairment test
associated with acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date. SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on
or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply SFAS 141(R)before that date. The Company is evaluating the impact of adopting the provisions of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160
on our financial position and results of operations.

2. Business Acquisitions

The Company acquired several businesses during the three-year period ended December 29, 2007. The results of operations of the acquired
businesses are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the following:

On
June 14, 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture with Shanghai BioExplorer Co., Ltd., a Shanghai, China-based provider of preclinical services, to form
Charles River Laboratories Preclinical Services—China. The Company paid $2,400 in cash for a 75% ownership interest in the joint venture. Additionally, as part of the agreement, the joint
venture purchased the net assets of Shanghai BioExplorer for a purchase price of $1,532 including transaction costs of $543. Intangible assets of $935 were recorded by the joint venture based on the
preliminary purchase price allocation.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions (Continued)

On January 4, 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 15% of the equity (319,199 common shares) of Charles River Laboratories Japan, Inc.,
("Charles River Japan") from Ajinomoto Company Inc., the minority interest partner. As of the effective date of this transaction, the Company owns 100% of Charles River Japan. The purchase
price for the equity was 1.3 billion Yen, or approximately $10,899, which was paid in cash. The purchase price allocation is as follows:

Minority interest acquired

$

5,624

Property, plant and equipment

2,224

Deferred tax liability

(4,187

)

Intangible asset (customer relationships with 15 year estimated amortization life)

$

7,238

$

10,899

On
October 30, 2006, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of privately held Tacoma, Washington based Northwest Kinetics for $29,357 in cash. Northwest Kinetics runs
clinical trials, primarily in a Phase I facility, with a focus on high end clinical pharmacology studies.

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the Northwest Kinetics acquisition, including transaction costs of $265 incurred by the Company and net of $812 of cash acquired, is
as follows:

Current assets (excluding cash)

$

6,741

Property, plant and equipment

2,983

Non-current assets


Current liabilities

(6,378

)

Non-current liabilities

(7,493

)

Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

32,857

Total purchase price allocation

$

28,810

In
conjunction with the purchase of Northwest Kinetics, the Company utilized $2,076 of available cash to pay off Northwest Kinetics' existing debt.

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the Northwest Kinetics acquisition was as follows:

Weighted average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

13,700


Participant list

1,300


Non-compete covenants



Trademarks and trade names



Goodwill

17,617

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

32,857

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of the period immediately
preceding the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions (Continued)

period
of acquisition after giving effect to certain adjustments including the amortization of intangibles. The pro forma data is for informational purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the
results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods reported. No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been realized through the acquisitions.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Net sales

$

1,230,626

$

1,073,215

$

1,004,194

Operating income

227,191

186,918

183,268

Income from continuing operations

157,552

123,325

143,780

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

2.35

$

1.79

$

2.06

Diluted

$

2.29

$

1.76

$

1.99

Refer
to Note 6 for further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.

3. Marketable Securities

The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value for marketable securities by major security type were as follows:

December 29, 2007

Amortized Cost

Gross Unrealized Gains

Gross Unrealized Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate securities

$

38,175

$

—

$

—

$

38,175

Corporate debt securities

13,620


(91

)

13,550

Bank time deposits

4,983

—

—

4,983

Government securities and obligations

4,339

—

(4

)

4,335

Mutual funds

2,372

—

—

2,372

$

63,489

$


$

(95

)

$

63,415

December 30, 2006

Amortized Cost

Gross Unrealized Gains

Gross Unrealized Losses

Fair Value

Auction rate securities

$

96,976

$

—

$

—

$

96,976

Government securities and obligations

5,958


(108

)

5,904

Corporate debt securities

3,392


(25

)

3,369

Mutual funds

5,123

—

—

5,123

$

111,449

$


$

(133

)

$

111,372

As
of December 29, 2007, the Company had $38,175 invested in auction rate securities which were rated AAA by a major credit rating agency and are guaranteed by U.S. federal
agencies or commercial insurance carriers.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3. Marketable Securities (Continued)

Maturities
of corporate debt securities and government securities and obligations classified as available for sale were as follows:

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

Amortized Cost

Fair Value

Due less than one year

$

14,963

$

14,958

$

7,416

$

7,450

Due after one year through five years

48,526

48,457

103,979

103,922

$

63,489

$

63,415

$

111,395

$

111,372

Marketable
securities due after one year are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.

4. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to
amortization:

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Gross Carrying Amount

Accumulated Amortization

Gross Carrying Amount

Accumulated Amortization

Goodwill

$

1,133,432

$

(12,892

)

$

1,132,074

$

(12,765

)

Other intangible assets not subject to amortization:

Research models

$

3,438

$

—

$

3,438

$

—

Other intangible assets subject to amortization:

Backlog

62,250

(62,250

)

54,734

(54,718

)

Customer relationships

224,871

(85,000

)

197,302

(47,407

)

Customer contracts

1,655

(1,655

)

1,655

(1,655

)

Trademarks and trade names

3,274

(2,350

)

3,278

(2,012

)

Standard operating procedures

1,356

(1,310

)

1,357

(1,263

)

Other identifiable intangible assets

10,819

(6,193

)

10,599

(5,104

)

Total other intangible assets

$

307,663

$

(158,758

)

$

272,363

$

(112,159

)


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

4. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued)

The
changes in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill are as follows:

Adjustments to Goodwill

Adjustments to Goodwill

Balance at December 31, 2005

Balance at December 30, 2006

Balance at December 29, 2007

Acquisitions

Other

Acquisitions

Other

Research Models and Services

Gross carrying amount

$

20,935

$

—

$


$

21,372

$

—

$


$

22,006

Accumulated amortization

(4,660

)

—

(115

)

(4,775

)

—

(127

)

(4,902

)

Preclinical Services

Gross carrying amount

1,089,305

17,617

3,780

1,110,702

—


1,111,426

Accumulated amortization

(7,990

)

—

—

(7,990

)

—

—

(7,990

)

Total

Gross carrying amount

$

1,110,240

$

17,617

$

4,217

$

1,132,074

$

—

$

1,358

$

1,133,432

Accumulated amortization

(12,650

)

—

(115

)

(12,765

)

—

(127

)

(12,892

)

Amortization
expense of intangible assets for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $33,509, $37,639 and $47,011, respectively.

Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years is expected to be as follows:


30,036


25,021


20,566


16,627


13,039

5. Long-Term Debt

Long-Term Debt

On July 31, 2006, the Company amended and restated its $660,000 credit agreement to reduce the current interest rate, modify certain restrictive covenants
and extend the term. The amount of debt outstanding under the original $660,000 credit agreement remained the same at the time of amendment. The now $428,000 credit agreement provided for a $156,000
U.S. term loan facility, a $200,000 U.S. revolving facility, a C$57,800 term loan facility and a C$12,000 revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary, and a GBP 6,000 revolving facility for a U.K.
subsidiary. The $156,000 term loan facility matures in 20 quarterly installments with the last installment due June 30, 2011. As of December 29, 2007, the Company had $109,200
outstanding on the U.S. term loan. The $200,000 U.S. revolving facility matures on July 31, 2011 and requires no scheduled payment before that date. Under specified circumstances, the $200,000
U.S. revolving facility may be increased by $100,000. The Canadian term loan was repaid during 2007. The Canadian and U.K. revolving facilities mature on July 31, 2011 and require no scheduled
prepayment before that date. The interest rate applicable to the Canadian term loan and the Canadian and U.K. revolving loans under the credit agreement is the adjusted LIBOR rate in its relevant
currency plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company's leverage ratio. The interest rates applicable to term loans and revolving loans under the credit agreement are, at the Company's option,
equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Long-Term Debt (Continued)

rate
or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company's leverage ratio. Based on the Company's leverage ratio, the margin range for
LIBOR based loans is 0.625% to 0.875%. The interest rate margin was 0.75% as of December 29, 2007. The Company has pledged the stock of certain subsidiaries as well as certain U.S. assets as
security for the $428,000 credit agreement. The $428,000 credit agreement includes certain customary representations and warranties, events of default and negative and affirmative covenants including
the ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") to consolidated interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less
than 3.5 to 1.0. The Company had $5,466 and $5,388 outstanding under letters of credit as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. During 2007, the Company did not
borrow under its revolving credit facilities. As of December 29, 2007, there were no outstanding balances on the revolving facilities.

On
July 27, 2005 the Company entered into a $50,000 credit agreement ("$50,000 credit agreement"), which was subsequently amended on December 20, 2005 and again on
July 31, 2006 to reflect substantially the same modifications made to the covenants in the $660,000 and $428,000 credit agreements, respectively. On June 15, 2007, the Company executed a
third amendment to the $50,000 credit agreement to extend the maturity date and reduce the interest rate. The $50,000 credit agreement provides for a $50,000 term loan facility which matures on
June 22, 2010. Prior to the amendment, the interest rate applicable to term loans under the credit agreement was, at the Company's option, equal to either the base rate (which was the higher of
the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. From June 15, 2007 through June 21, 2008, the interest rates applicable to term loans under the credit
agreement are, at the Company's option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) minus 2.25% or the LIBOR rate plus 0.50%. Commencing
June 22, 2008 through June 22, 2010, the applicable interest rates are equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the
adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based on the Company's leverage ratio. The $50,000 credit agreement includes certain customary representations and
warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. As of December 29, 2007, the entire balance of the $50,000 credit agreement was outstanding.

On
June 12, 2006, the Company issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes ("the 2013 Notes") in a private placement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $294,000. On June 20, 2006, the initial purchasers associated with this convertible debt offering exercised an option to purchase an additional $50,000 of the 2013 Notes for
additional net proceeds to the Company of approximately $49,000. The 2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature on June 15, 2013. The 2013 Notes
are convertible into cash and shares of the Company's common stock (or, at the Company's election, cash in lieu of some or all of such common stock), if any, based on an initial conversion rate,
subject to adjustment, of 20.4337 shares of the Company's common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $48.94 per share), only in the following
circumstances and to the following extent: (i) during any fiscal quarter beginning after July 1, 2006 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the
Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 130% of the
conversion price on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter; (ii) during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period, or the
measurement period, in which the trading price per note for each day of that measurement period was less than 98% of the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Long-Term Debt (Continued)

product
of the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (iii) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions, as described in
the indenture for the 2013 Notes; and (iv) at the option of the holder at any time beginning on the date that is two months prior to the stated maturity date and ending on the close of business
on the second trading-day immediately preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, the Company will pay cash and shares of its common stock (or, at its election, cash in lieu of some or
all of such common stock), if any. As of December 29, 2007, no conversion triggers were met. If the Company undergoes a fundamental change as described in the indenture for the 2013 Notes,
holders will have the option to require the Company to purchase all or any portion of their notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any
accrued and unpaid interest, including any additional interest to, but excluding, the purchase date. The related debt issuance costs of $7,000 were deferred and are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over a seven-year term.

Concurrently
with the sale of the 2013 Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its obligation to deliver common stock under the notes. The
convertible note hedges give the Company the right to receive, for no additional consideration, the number of shares of common stock that it is obligated to deliver upon conversion of the notes
(subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially identical to those in the 2013 Notes), and expire on June 15, 2013. The aggregate cost of these convertible note hedges was
$98,293.

Separately
and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of its common stock. The warrants give the holders
the right to receive, for no additional consideration, cash or shares (at the option of the Company) with a value equal to the appreciation in the price of the Company's shares above $59.925, and
expire between September 13,
2013 and January 22, 2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants were $65,423.

In
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue ("EITF") No. 00-19, "Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a
Company's Own Stock" ("EITF No. 00-19"), SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" and SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity," the Company recorded both the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants as adjustments to
additional paid in capital, and will not recognize subsequent changes in fair value of the agreement. At December 29, 2007, the fair value of the outstanding 2013 Notes was approximately
$514,500, based on their quoted market value.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Long-Term Debt (Continued)

Long-term debt consists of the following:

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Senior convertible debentures

$

350,000

$

350,000

$

—

Term loan facilities

159,200

221,274

295,885

Revolving credit facility

—

—

Other long-term debt, represents secured and unsecured promissory notes, interest rates between 0% and 11.6% at December 29, 2007, maturing between 2008 and 2013




Total debt

510,049

572,054

296,090

Less: current portion of long-term debt

(25,051

)

(24,970

)

(36,195

)

Long-term debt

$

484,998

$

547,084

$

259,895

Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 29, 2007 are as follows:

Fiscal Year


$

25,051


34,542


77,040


23,408



Thereafter

350,000

Total

$

510,049

6. Shareholders' Equity

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share for 2007, 2006 and 2005 was computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for these periods by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding in the respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable shares. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding for 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been
adjusted to include common stock equivalents for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share for these periods.

Options
to purchase 243,357 shares, 2,972,420 shares and 2,027,666 shares were outstanding at December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005,
respectively, but were not included in computing diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.

Basic
weighted average shares outstanding for 2005 excluded the weighted average impact of 20,000 shares of contingently issuable shares. In addition, weighted average shares outstanding
for 2007, 2006 and 2005 excluded the weighted average impact of 711,896, 653,780 and 544,863 shares, respectively, of non-vested fixed restricted stock awards.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

The
following table illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share:

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

December 31, 2005

Numerator:

Income from continuing operations for purposes of calculating earnings per share

$

157,552

$

125,221

$

145,789

After-tax equivalent of interest expense on 3.5% senior convertible debentures

—

—

1,208

Income from continuing operations for purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share

157,552

125,221

146,997

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses

$

(3,146

)

$

(181,004

)

$

(3,790

)

Denominator:

Weighted average shares outstanding—Basic

66,960,515

68,945,622

69,730,056

Effect of dilutive securities:

2.25% senior convertible debentures

481,136

—

—

3.5% senior convertible debentures

—

—

1,462,474

Stock options and contingently issued restricted stock

1,160,369

867,204

1,424,740

Warrants

133,916

135,206

285,115

Weighted average shares outstanding—Diluted

68,735,936

69,948,032

72,902,385

Basic earnings per share from continuing operations

$

2.35

$

1.82

$

2.09

Basic earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations

$

2.29

$

1.79

$

2.02

Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

The
sum of the earnings per share from continuing operations and the earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations does not necessarily equal the earnings (loss)
per share from net income in the condensed consolidated statements of operations due to rounding.

Treasury Shares

The Board of Directors of the Company has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently amended on
October 26, 2005, May 9, 2006 and August 1, 2007, to acquire up to a total of $400,000 of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date. In order to facilitate
these share repurchases, the Company entered into Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plans.

During
2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company repurchased 724,200 shares of common stock for $38,911, 518,800 shares of common stock for $23,322 and 396,000 shares of common stock for $17,485,
respectively, under these plans. In addition, concurrent with the sale of the 2013 Notes, the Company used $148,866 of the net proceeds for the purchase of 3,726,300 shares of its common stock.

During
2006 the Company also entered into an Accelerated Stock Repurchase (ASR) program with a third-party investment bank. In connection with this ASR program, the Company purchased
1,787,706 shares of stock at a cost of $75,000. In conjunction with the ASR, the Company also entered


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

into
a cashless collar with a forward floor price of $37.9576 per share of the Company's common stock (95% of the initial price of $39.9554, the market price of the Company's common stock on
August 23, 2006) and a forward cap price of $41.9532 per share of the Company's common stock (105% of the initial price). The final number of shares repurchased under the ASR program was
determined by taking the average volume weighted average price of the Company's common stock for 65 trading days starting on August 23, 2006. Since the final share price of $42.6503 was above
the cap price of $41.9532, there was no adjustment to the final number of shares repurchased.

As
of December 29, 2007, approximately $96,400 remains authorized for share repurchases.

Share
repurchases during 2007 and 2006 were as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Number of shares of common stock repurchased

724,200

6,032,806

Total cost of repurchase

$

38,911

$

247,203

Additionally,
the Company's 2000 Incentive Plan permits the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards in order to satisfy individual tax withholding
requirements. During the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, the Company acquired 71,456 shares for $3,506 and 57,688 shares for $2,755, respectively, as a result
of such withholdings.

The
timing and amount of any future repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate considerations.

Retained Earnings

Retained earnings includes approximately $2,000 which is restricted due to statutory requirements in the local jurisdiction of a foreign subsidiary as of
December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment

Minimum Pension Liability Adjustment

Pension Gains/(Losses) and Prior Service (Cost)/Credit Not Yet Recognized as Components of Net Periodic Benefit Costs Pursuant to SFAS No. 158

Net Unrealized Gain on Marketable Securities

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

Balance at December 31, 2005

$

11,768

$

(3,214

)

$

—

$

(14

)

$

8,540

Period change

13,167

5,360

(7,792

)


10,750

Tax

(832

)

(2,146

)

4,863

(4

)

1,881

Balance at December 30, 2006

24,103

—

(2,929

)

(3

)

21,171

Period change

58,045

10,201

(48

)

68,198

Tax

(173

)

—

(3,637

)

(3,810

)

Balance at December 29, 2007

$

81,975

$

—

$

3,635

$

(51

)

$

85,559


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

Warrants

Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of its common stock. The
warrants give the holders the right to receive, for no additional consideration, cash or shares (at the option of the Company) with a value equal to the appreciation in the price of the Company's
shares above $59.925, and expire between September 13, 2013 and January 22, 2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants was $65,423.

As
part of the recapitalization in 1999, the Company issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a $1,000 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.6 shares of common stock of the
Company for total proceeds of $150,000. The Company allocated the $150,000 offering proceeds between the senior subordinated notes ($147,872) and the warrants ($2,128), based upon the estimated fair
value. The portion of the proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital in excess of par in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each warrant entitles the holder, subject
to certain conditions, to purchase 7.6 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $5.19 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment under some circumstances. Upon exercise, the
holders of warrants would be entitled to purchase 147,250 and 149,910 shares of common stock of the Company as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. The warrants
expire on October 1, 2009.

7. Income Taxes

An analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments and the related provision for income taxes is
presented below:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

U.S.

$

94,286

$

90,598

$

96,647

Non-U.S.

123,136

85,966

67,241

$

217,422

$

176,564

$

163,888

Income tax provision

Current:

Federal

$

39,907

$

22,626

$

36,312

Foreign

21,547

10,895

17,495

State and local

7,732

5,501

3,000

Total current

69,186

39,022

56,807

Deferred:

Federal

(3,469

)

10,595

(32,886

)

Foreign

(4,689

)


(3,403

)

State and local

(1,628

)


(4,257

)

Total deferred

(9,786

)

10,716

(40,546

)

$

59,400

$

49,738

$

16,261


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Income Taxes (Continued)

Net
deferred taxes, detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes
and such amounts measured in accordance with tax laws.

December 29,


December 30,


Compensation related

$

31,314

$

38,662

Accruals



Financing related

31,301

37,050

Goodwill and other intangibles

(7,851

)

(4,906

)

Net operating loss and credit carryforwards

17,609

20,359

Depreciation and amortization

(28,948

)

(31,563

)

Deferred Income



Other

(1,139

)

(1,762

)

43,061

59,154

Valuation allowance

(561

)

—

Total deferred taxes

$

42,500

$

59,154

Reconciliations
of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Tax at statutory U.S. tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Foreign tax rate differences

(3.9

)%

(3.4

)%

(1.7

)%

State income taxes, net of federal tax benefit

1.7

%

1.9

%

1.3

%

Change in valuation allowance

0.3

%

(0.2

)%

(1.1

)%

Net impact of repatriation, reorganization and change in assertion

0.0

%

0.0

%

(17.2

)%

Research tax credits and enhanced deductions

(6.0

)%

(6.4

)%

(7.3

)%

Write off of other deferred tax assets and liabilities.

0.0

%

0.0

%

0.6

%

Enacted Tax Rate Changes

(1.3

)%

(1.0

)%

2.1

%

Change in Tax Uncertainties

2.2

%

1.1

%

0.0

%

Other

(0.7

)%

1.2

%

(1.8

)%

27.3

%

28.2

%

9.9

%

In
the third and fourth quarters of 2007, the Company revalued certain of its deferred tax assets and liabilities for the enactment of U.K., German and Canadian federal income tax rate
reductions resulting in a tax benefit of $2,793.

During
2007, the Company recorded a reduction to income taxes payable for $17,750 from the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted shares. The benefit of this reduction as
well as the tax effect of stock based compensation has been recorded to additional paid in capital for $8,727 and goodwill for $524.

As
of December 29, 2007, the Company has non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $6,732 which will begin to expire in 2016. As a result of the
acquisition of Northwest


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Income Taxes (Continued)

Kinetics
in October of 2006, the Company has a U.S. net operating loss carryforward of $581 which will begin to expire in 2026. The Company has U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of $2,684 which
will begin to expire in 2015. The Company has Canadian Investment Tax Credit carryforwards of $6,746 as a result of its research and development activity in Montreal, which begin to expire in 2015.
The Company has a capital loss carryforward in Canada of $867 and has recorded a valuation allowance of $561 against this asset.

The
Company has fully recognized its deferred tax assets on the belief that it is more likely than not they will be realized except for the Canadian capital loss carryforward for which a
valuation allowance has been established. This belief is based on all available evidence including historical operating results, projections of taxable income and tax planning strategies.

In
July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109"
("FIN 48"), which became effective for the Company on December 31, 2006. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 did not result in a change to the Company's opening retained
earnings. At December 29, 2007 the amount recorded for unrecognized income tax benefits was $22,129. The increase from the date of adoption is primarily due to the continuing evaluation of
uncertain tax positions conducted in the current period. The amount of unrecognized income tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate was $7,643 at the date of
adoption and $12,500 as of December 29, 2007.

The
Company's unrecognized income tax benefits are as follows:

December 29,


Beginning balance, upon adoption as of December 31, 2006

$

16,896

Additions:

Tax positions for current year

3,612

Tax positions for prior years

2,413

Reductions:

Tax positions for current year

(65

)

Tax positions for prior year

(43

)

Settlements

(177

)

Expiration of statute of limitations

(507

)

Ending balance as of December 29, 2007

$

22,129

The
Company has concluded that it is not reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change within the next year.

The
Company continues to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized income tax benefits in income tax expense. The total amount of accrued interest related to unrecognized
income tax benefits as of December 31, 2006 and December 29, 2007 was $617 and $1,753 respectively. The Company has not recorded a provision for penalties associated with uncertain tax
positions.

The
Company conducts business operations in a number of tax jurisdictions. As a result, the Company is subject to tax audits on a regular basis including, but not limited to, current
examinations by the Internal Revenue Service in the United States and Canada Revenue Agency. In regards to the Internal Revenue Service examinations of the 2004 tax returns of the Company and an
acquired


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Income Taxes (Continued)

subsidiary,
the Company filed its formal protests of proposed income tax adjustments with the Appeals Division on July 2, 2007. The Company does not believe that the ultimate settlement of
these proposed adjustments will have a material impact to the financial statements. The Company believes it has appropriately provided for all unrecognized tax benefits. The Company is no longer
subject to U.S. and international income tax examinations for years before 2002.

As
of December 29, 2007, earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $349,079. No provision for U.S. income taxes has been
provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to both U.S. taxes and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign
countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

On
June 12, 2006, the Company issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes ("the 2013 Notes") in a private placement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $294,000. On June 20, 2006, the initial purchasers associated with this convertible debt offering exercised an option to purchase an additional $50,000 of the 2013 Notes for
additional net proceeds to the Company of approximately $49,000. The 2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature on June 15, 2013. Concurrently
with the sale of the 2013
Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its obligation to deliver common stock under the notes. Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013
Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of its common stock. The Company has elected to apply the rules of the Integration Regulations under Treas. Reg.
1.1275-6 to treat the 2013 Notes and the associated hedge as synthetic debt instruments and accordingly is deducting the option premium paid for the hedge as original issue discount over
the 7 year term. The cash tax benefit of this deduction is recorded to additional paid in capital. A deferred tax asset has been recorded to reflect the future cash tax benefit of the
deductions over the term of the 2013 Notes. Also, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 1032, the Company will not recognize any gain or loss for tax purpose with respect to the exercise or
lapse of the warrants.

During
the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company repatriated $148,027 of its accumulated foreign earnings in a distribution that qualified under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004
("AJCA"). The distribution was primarily from the pre-acquisition foreign earnings of Inveresk. The Company provided for income taxes on substantially all of Inveresk's unremitted foreign
earnings at the time of the Inveresk acquisition based on the tax rates in effect at date of the acquisition. As a result, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $24,060 from the impact of the change
in tax law on the $148,027 distribution. As part of its plan of distribution, the Company restructured its UK operations in order to distribute the funds in the most tax efficient manner and incurred
a non-cash charge of $23,110 related to an increase in the deferred tax liability on the remaining undistributed earnings of Inveresk. In addition, the Company incurred an additional tax
of $1,883 on the write-off of deferred tax assets.

Also
during the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company changed its assertion with respect to the remaining unremitted pre-acquisition earnings of Inveresk in order to fund the
expansion of the Company's preclinical facilities and an increased UK pension funding requirement. These earnings and the earnings distributed under the AJCA were previously not considered permanently
reinvested. The Company recorded a non-cash benefit from the change in assertion of $29,204.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Income Taxes (Continued)

During the second quarter of 2005, the Company realized a cash tax benefit of $14,497 when it converted all of its $185,000 3.5% senior convertible debentures.
Also in 2005, the Company recorded a reduction to income taxes payable for $7,600 from the exercise of stock options. The benefit from both of these items has been recorded to additional paid in
capital.

8. Employee Benefits

Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan

The Company's defined contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan, qualifies under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.
It covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby the Company matches a percentage of employee contributions. The costs associated with this defined contribution plan totaled
$4,074, $3,439 and $3,316, in 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan and Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

On February 8, 2006, the Company established the Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (Deferred Compensation Plan) for select eligible
employees, including its Named Executive Officers. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, participants may elect to defer bonus and salary amounts, and may select the investment returns to be applied
to deferred amounts from among a number of reference mutual funds as well as an interest crediting rate. The plan is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and is not
subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. At the present time, no Company contributions will be credited to the plan, except as set forth below. Participants must specify the
distribution date for deferred amounts at the time of deferral, in accordance with applicable IRS regulations. Generally, amounts may be paid in lump sum or installments upon retirement or termination
of employment, or later if the employee terminates employment after age 55 and before age 65. Amounts may also be distributed during employment, subject to a minimum deferral requirement of three
years.

In
addition to the Deferred Compensation Plan, certain officers and key employees of the Company also participate, or in the past participated, in the Company's amended and restated
Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan (ESLIRP) which is a non-funded, non-qualified arrangement. Annual benefits under this plan will equal a percentage of the
highest five consecutive years of compensation, offset by amounts payable under the Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan and Social Security.

In
connection with the establishment of the Deferred Compensation Plan, current active employees who agreed to convert their ESLIRP benefit to a comparable benefit in the deferred
compensation plan discontinued their direct participation in the ESLIRP. Instead, the present value of the accrued benefits of ESLIRP participants was credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan
accounts, and future ESLIRP accruals will now be converted to present values and credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan accounts annually. Upon the adoption of the Deferred Compensation Plan,
the value of their accrued ESLIRP benefits, prior to adjustments for outstanding Medicare taxes, were credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan account. In addition, the Company provides certain
active employees an annual contribution into their Deferred Compensation Plan account of 10% of the employee's base salary plus the lesser of their target annual bonus or actual annual bonus. The
costs


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Employee Benefits (Continued)

associated
with these defined contribution plans totaled $3,462 and $4,029 in 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The
Company has invested in several corporate-owned key-person life insurance policies as well as mutual funds and U.S. Treasury Securities with the intention of using these
investments to fund the ESLIRP and the Deferred Compensation Plan. Participants have no interest in any such investments. At December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 the cash surrender
value of these life insurance policies were $22,027 and $14,360, respectively. Additionally, at December 29, 2007 and
December 30, 2006, mutual fund and U.S. Treasury Securities investments totaled $2,372 and $6,510, respectively.

Pension Plans

The Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan (Pension Plan), is a qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plan that covers certain
U.S. employees. Benefits are based on participants' final average monthly compensation and years of service. Participants' rights vest upon completion of five years of service. Effective
January 1, 2002, the plan was amended to exclude new participants from joining the plan. Benefit criteria offered to existing participants as of the amendment date did not change.

The
defined benefit pension plans for Japan and our Canadian RMS operation are non-contributory plans that cover substantially all employees of those respective companies.
Benefits are based upon length of service and final salary. In addition, our French RMS operation has a defined benefit statutory indemnity plan covering most of its employees.

In
connection with the Inveresk acquisition on October 20, 2004, the Company assumed a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit pension plan covering certain employees.
Contributions under the defined contribution plan are determined as a percentage of gross salary. As a result of the sale of Phase II-IV of the Clinical business, this plan realized
a curtailment of $1,466 during 2006 associated with those employees who participated in this plan and whose employment with the Company was terminated in connection with the sale.

The
Company adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" as of December 30, 2006. This statement requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the funded status of
a benefit plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains, losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period that are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as a
component of other comprehensive income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the employer's fiscal year-end balance sheet; and disclose in the
notes to financial statements additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior
service costs or credits, and transition asset or obligation. Retrospective application is not permitted. The following tables summarize the funded status of the Company's defined benefit plans and
amounts reflected in the Company's consolidated balance sheets in accordance with SFAS No. 158.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Change in benefit obligations

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

212,998

$

196,316

$

29,262

$

19,439

Service cost

6,204

6,426



Interest cost

11,663

9,921

1,580

1,527

Plan participants' contributions



—

—

Curtailment

—


—

—

Settlement gain

(1,214

)

—

—

—

Benefit payments

(4,857

)

(3,569

)

(605

)

(575

)

Actuarial loss (gain)

(8,905

)

(972

)

(1,194

)

2,091

Plan amendments


(54

)

—

5,941

Other

1,353

—

—

—

Effect of foreign exchange

14,667

3,822

—

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

232,852

$

212,998

$

29,925

$

29,262

Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

163,446

$

143,409

$

—

$

—

Plan assets assumed

—


—

—

Actual return on plan assets

11,598

13,893

—

—

Settlement gain

(1,214

)

—

—

—

Employer contributions

12,364

8,408



Plan participants' contributions



—

—

Benefit payments

(4,857

)

(3,570

)

(605

)

(575

)

Premiums paid

—

(240

)

—

—

Other


—

—

—

Effect of foreign exchange

13,575

—

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

196,214

$

163,445

$

—

$

—

Funded status

Projected benefit obligation

$

232,852

$

212,998

$

29,925

$

29,262

Fair value of plan assets

196,214

163,445

—

—

Net balance sheet liability

$

36,638

$

49,553

$

29,925

$

29,262

Classification of net balance sheet liability

Current liabilities

$


$

—

$


$

—

Non-current liabilities

35,729

$

49,553

$

29,293

$

29,262

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans

$

214,564

$

194,924

$

23,308

$

23,745


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Information for defined benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit obligation

$

165,080

$

203,396

$

29,925

$

29,261

Accumulated benefit obligation

163,741

187,861

23,308

23,745

Fair value of plan assets

142,131

155,604

—

—

Information for defined benefit plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit obligation

$

232,852

$

212,998

$

29,925

$

29,262

Accumulated benefit obligation

214,564

194,924

23,308

23,745

Fair value of plan assets

196,214

163,445

—

—

Amounts recognized in statement of financial position as part of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI")

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Net actuarial (gain)/loss

$

(2,962

)

$

5,602

$

7,512

$

9,243

Net prior service cost/(credit)

(11,023

)

(11,524

)

3,973

4,471

Effect of foreign exchange


—

—

—

Total pre-tax

(13,882

)

(5,922

)

11,485

13,714

Less: taxes

(3,305

)

(586

)

4,541

5,449

Total

$

(10,577

)

$

(5,336

)

$

6,944

$

8,265

Amounts in AOCI expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits

Amortization of net actuarial (gain)/loss

$


$


Amortization of net prior service cost/(credit)

(545

)



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Components of net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Service cost

$

6,204

$

6,426

$

6,066

$


$


$


Interest cost

11,663

9,921

9,519

1,581

1,527

1,031

Expected return on plan assets

(12,630

)

(10,013

)

(8,335

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost (credit)

(526

)

(547

)

(133

)



(162

)

Amortization of net loss


1,011



1,139


Net periodic benefit cost

5,097

6,798

7,751

3,529

4,003

2,245

Curtailment gain


(1,334

)

—

—

—

—

Net pension cost

$

5,423

$

5,464

$

7,751

$

3,529

$

4,003

$

2,245

Assumptions

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations

Pension Benefits

Supplemental Retirement Benefits





Discount rate

5.69

%

4.95

%

5.88

%

5.65

%

Rate of compensation increase

4.07

%

3.27

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Discount rate

5.14

%

4.95

%

5.26

%

5.56

%

5.50

%

5.75

%

Expected long-term return on plan assets

7.00

%

6.58

%

7.10

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation increase

3.94

%

3.31

%

3.31

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

The
expected long term rate of return on plan assets was made considering the pension plan's asset mix, historical returns and the expected yields on plan assets.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Plan assets

The Company's pension plan weighted-average asset allocations are as follows:

Target

Allocation

Pension Benefits




Equity securities


%


%


%

Fixed income


%


%


%

Other


%


%


%

Total


%


%


%

The
Company's investment objective is to obtain the highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk. Fund performances are compared to benchmarks including the
S&P 500 Index, Russell 1000 Index, Russell 3000 Index and Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. The Company's Investment Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review plan assets.

The
Company's plan assets did not include any of the Company's common stock at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006.

Contributions

During 2007, the Company contributed $11,994 to its pension plans. The Company expects to contribute $11,651 to its pension plan in 2008.

Estimated future benefit payments

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits


$

6,122

$



5,292

4,968


5,704



6,098



7,378


2013-2017

46,603

23,074


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation

The Company has share-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors may be granted share based awards. During 2007, 2006
and 2005, the primary share-based awards and their general terms and conditions are as follows:

•

Stock
options, which entitle the holder to purchase a specified number of shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price equal to the closing market price of the
Company's common stock on the date of grant; vest incrementally, typically over three to four years; and generally expire seven to ten years from date of grant.

•

Restricted
stock grants, which entitle the holder to receive at no cost, a specified number of shares of the Company's common stock that vests incrementally, typically over
three to four years. Recipients are entitled to cash dividends and to vote their respective shares upon grant.

•

Performance
based stock awards, which entitle the holder to receive at no cost, a specified number of shares of the Company's common stock within a range of shares from zero
to a specified maximum. Payout of this award is contingent upon achievement of individualized stretch goals as determined by the Company's Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

At
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 8, 2007, the Company's shareholders approved the 2007 Incentive Plan ("the 2007 Plan"). The 2007 Plan provides that effective
upon approval, no further awards will be granted under preexisting stock option and incentive plans of the Company; provided, however, that any shares that have been forfeited or cancelled in
accordance with the terms of the applicable award under a preexisting plan may be subsequently awarded in accordance with the terms of the preexisting plan. The 2007 Plan allows a maximum of
6.3 million shares to be awarded of which restricted stock grants and performance based stock awards count as 2.3 shares and stock options count as one share. In the past, the Company
had various employee stock and incentive plans under which stock options and other share-based awards were granted. Stock options and other share-based awards that were granted under prior plans and
were outstanding on May 8, 2007, continue in accordance with the terms of the respective plans.

At
December 29, 2007, 6.3 million shares were authorized for future grants under the Company's share based compensation plans. The Company settles employee share based
compensation awards with newly issued shares.

Effective
January 1, 2006, the Company adopted, on a modified prospective basis, the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), and related guidance which requires the measurement and
recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated fair values.
Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service
period.

The
Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R), using the modified prospective transition method, which requires the application of the accounting standard as of January 1, 2006, the
first day of the Company's fiscal year 2006. Under this transition method, stock-based compensation expense recognized during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006 includes: stock options and
restricted stock awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS
No. 123, and stock options and restricted stock granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value, in accordance with the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

provisions
of SFAS No. 123(R). Under the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods are not restated.

The
estimated fair value of the Company's stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards' vesting period on a straight-line basis. The effect of
recording stock-based compensation for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 was as follows:

December 29,


December 30,


Stock-based compensation expense by type of award:

Stock options

$

11,042

$

11,878

Restricted stock

14,976

9,271

Share-based compensation expense before tax

26,018

21,149

Income tax benefit

(8,424

)

(7,746

)

Reduction to income from continuing operations

17,594

13,403

Share-based compensation expense of discontinued businesses, net of tax

—


Reduction to net income

$

17,594

$

14,383

Reduction to earnings per share:

Basic

$

0.26

$

0.21

Diluted

$

0.26

$

0.21

Effect on income by line item:

Cost of sales

$

8,258

$

7,033

Selling and administration

17,759

14,116

Share based compensation expense before tax

26,017

21,149

Income tax benefit

(8,423

)

(7,746

)

Operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax

—


Reduction to net income

$

17,594

$

14,383

The
Company estimates the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the
exercise price of the award, the expected option term, the risk-free interest rate over the option's expected term, the expected annual dividend yield and the expected stock price
volatility. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of the Company's common stock over the expected life of the option. The risk free interest
rate was based on the market yield for the five year U.S. Treasury security. The expected life of options was determined using historical option exercise activity. Management believes that the
valuation technique and the approach utilized to
develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in calculating the fair values of the Company's stock options granted during fiscal year 2007 and 2006. Estimates of fair value are not intended to
predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by persons who receive equity awards.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
fair value of stock-based awards granted during 2007 and 2006 was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

December 29,


December 30,


Expected life (in years)

5.0

4.9

Expected volatility


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

4.6

%

4.8

%

Expected dividend yield

0.0

%

0.0

%

Weighted-average grant date fair value

$

16.49

$

13.91

Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)

Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for its stock plans under the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," ("APB No. 25") and FASB Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation—an
Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25" and provided the required pro forma disclosures of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" as amended by SFAS No. 148,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation—Transition and Disclosure". Stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock granted at no cost to the employees were reflected in net
income.

The
pro-forma information for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 was as follows:

December 31,


Reported net income

$

141,999

Add: Stock-based employee compensation included in reported net income, net of tax

10,490

Less: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under the fair value method for all awards, net of tax

(29,735

)

Pro forma net income

$

122,754

Reported basic earnings per share

$

2.04

Pro forma basic earnings per share

$

1.76

Reported diluted earnings per share

$

1.96

Pro forma diluted earnings per share

$

1.70

The
fair value of stock-based awards granted during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 was estimated using the following weighted-average assumptions:


Expected life (in years)

5.0

Expected volatility


%

Risk-free interest rate

4.0

%

Expected dividend yield

0.0

%

Weighted-average grant date fair value

$

17.97


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

Stock Options

The following table summarizes stock option activities under the Company's plans:

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

(in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Options outstanding as of December 25, 2004

5,587,887

$

30.47

Options granted

1,335,908

$

47.66

Options exercised

(1,083,680

)

$

23.98

Options canceled

(285,775

)

$

39.95

Options outstanding as of December 31, 2005

5,554,340

$

35.39

Options granted

889,650

$

39.62

Options exercised

(766,209

)

$

29.97

Options canceled

(285,168

)

$

41.85

Options outstanding as of December 30, 2006

5,392,613

$

36.50

Options granted

934,690

$

46.95

Options exercised

(1,737,413

)

$

31.47

Options canceled

(122,087

)

$

41.49

Options outstanding as of December 29, 2007

4,467,803

$

40.50

5.7 years

$

114,467

Options exercisable as of December 31, 2005

3,712,538

$

32.08

Options exercisable as of December 30, 2006

3,822,370

$

34.04

Options exercisable as of December 29, 2007

2,708,268

$

37.92

5.4 years

$

76,382

As
of December 29, 2007, the unrecognized compensation cost related to 1,653,963 unvested stock options expected to vest was $18,407. This unrecognized compensation will be
recognized over an estimated weighted average amortization period of 33 months.

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal years ending December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 was $37,342 $12,557 and
$27,028, respectively, with intrinsic value defined as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the grant date price. The total amount of cash received from the exercise of
these options was $53,963. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $13,399 for the year ended December 29, 2007.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as of December 29, 2007:

Options Exercisable

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

(In years)

Options Outstanding

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Range of Exercise Prices

Number Outstanding

Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Life

(In years)

Weighted Average Exercise Price

Aggregate Intrinsic Value

Options Exercisable

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

$00.00–$10.00

28,826

2.02

$

4.78

$

1,768

28,826

2.02

$

4.78

$

1,768

$10.01–$20.00

118,470

3.56

14.64

6,100

118,470

3.56

14.63

6,100

$20.01–$30.00

56,768

5.55

27.53

2,191

56,768

5.55

27.53

2,191

$30.01–$40.00

1,691,109

5.14

34.70

53,141

1,188,452

4.94

33.30

39,009

$40.01–$50.00

2,509,843

6.24

46.05

50,385

1,313,852

6.02

45.35

27,285

$50.01–$60.00

62,787

6.55

52.06


1,900

7.67

50.59


Totals

4,467,803

5.72 years

$

40.50

$

114,468

2,708,268

5.39 years

$

37.92

$

76,383

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total intrinsic value, based on a closing stock price of $66.12 as of December 29, 2007, that would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of December 29,
2007 was 2,708,268.

The
following table summarizes the non-vested stock option activity in the equity incentive plans for the fiscal year ending December 29, 2007:

Stock Options

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Non-vested at December 30, 2006

1,570,243

$

42.48

Granted

934,690

46.95

Forfeited

(86,810

)

42.75

Vested

(658,588

)

43.44

Non-vested at December 29, 2007

1,759,535

$

44.47

Restricted Stock

Stock compensation expense associated with restricted common stock is charged for the market value on the date of grant, less estimated forfeitures, and is
amortized over the awards' vesting period on a straight-line basis.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
following table summarizes the restricted stock activity for 2007:

Restricted Stock

Weighted

Average

Grant Date

Fair Value

Outstanding December 30, 2006

653,780

$

42.91

Granted

331,320

46.93

Vested

(239,668

)

44.48

Cancelled

(33,536

)

43.13

Outstanding December 29, 2007

711,896

$

44.25

As
of December 29, 2007, the unrecognized compensation cost related to 678,295 shares of unvested restricted stock expected to vest was $19,563. This unrecognized compensation
will be recognized over an estimated weighted average amortization period of 37 months. The total fair value of restricted stock grants that vested during the fiscal years ending
December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 was $10,661 $9,231 and $1,683, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from restricted
stock grants that vested totaled $4,351 for the year ended December 29, 2007.

During
2007, the Company made a performance-based award to the Company's executives. Payout of this award is contingent upon achievement of individualized stretch goals as determined by
the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. This grant is accounted for in
accordance with FAS 123(R), accordingly, compensation expense associated with these awards of $1,883 has been recorded during 2007.

10. Joint Ventures

The Company holds investments in several joint ventures. These joint ventures are separate legal entities whose purpose is consistent with the overall operations
of the Company and represent geographic and business segment expansions of existing markets. The financial results of all joint ventures were consolidated in the Company's results as the Company has
the ability to exercise control over these entities. During 2007, the Company acquired the remaining 15% of equity of Charles River Japan from Ajinomoto Company, Inc., the minority interest
partner. The interests of the outside joint venture partners in these joint ventures have been recorded as minority interests totaling $3,500 and $9,223 at December 29, 2007 and
December 30, 2006, respectively.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Commitments and Contingencies

Operating Leases

The Company has commitments for various operating leases for machinery and equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. As a matter of ordinary
business course, the Company occasionally guarantees certain lease commitments to landlords. Rent expense for all operating leases was $25,548, $18,134 and $19,542 in 2007, 2006, and 2005,
respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more, consist of the following at
December 29, 2007:


$

24,920


17,920


9,757


6,364


4,375

Thereafter

20,118

Insurance

The Company maintains various insurances which maintain large deductibles up to $500, some with or without stop-loss limits, depending on market
availability. Aggregate loss limits for workers compensation and auto liability are projected at $5,200.

Construction

The Company has certain purchase commitments related to the completion of our ongoing construction projects which amounted to approximately $99,500 as of
December 29, 2007.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending against the Company. In the opinion of management, the outcome
of such proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect the Company's consolidated financial statements.

12. Business Segment and Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," the Company discloses financial and descriptive
information about its reportable operating segments. Operating segments are components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief
operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

The
Company reports two segments, called Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS).

Our
RMS segment includes sales of research models, transgenic services, research animal diagnostics, discovery services, consulting and staffing services, vaccine support and in vitro
technology (primarily endotoxin testing). Our PCS segment includes services required to take a drug through the


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

12. Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

development
process including discovery support, toxicology, pathology, biopharmaceutical, bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism services as well as Phase I clinical trials.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by business segment. Net sales represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in either provision of RMS or
PCS. Long lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles and other long lived assets.




Research Models and Services

Net sales

$

577,231

$

514,999

$

503,167

Gross margin

249,348

214,125

215,534

Operating income

177,151

147,789

159,756

Total assets

630,029

674,963

484,975

Long-lived assets

287,058

306,267

217,414

Depreciation and amortization

23,378

20,804

20,015

Capital expenditures

51,086

27,018

24,558

Preclinical Services

Net sales

$

653,395

$

543,386

$

490,161

Gross margin

228,843

192,482

174,170

Operating income

103,541

82,323

67,918

Total assets

2,170,313

1,875,487

1,655,960

Long-lived assets

1,817,173

1,641,935

1,477,407

Depreciation and amortization

63,001

61,779

67,920

Capital expenditures

175,950

154,728

69,885

A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Total segment operating income

$

280,692

$

230,112

$

227,674

Unallocated corporate overhead

(53,501

)

(41,939

)

(42,980

)

Consolidated operating income

$

227,191

$

188,173

$

184,694


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

12. Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

A
summary of unallocated corporate overhead consists of the following:

December 29,


December 30,


December 31, 2005

Restricted stock and performance based compensation expense

$

13,119

$

8,198

$

14,566

U.S. pension expense

7,199

8,459

5,418

Audit, tax and related expense

3,447

3,918

2,679

Executive officers' compensation

3,466

3,613

2,963

Employees' compensation

10,764

8,083

5,627

Global IT

5,004

—

—

Other general unallocated corporate expenses

10,502

9,668

11,727

$

53,501

$

41,939

$

42,980

Other
general unallocated corporate expenses consist of various costs including those associated with departments such as senior executives, corporate accounting, legal, tax, human
resources, treasury and investor relations.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by geographic regions. Included in the other non-U.S. category below are the Company's operations located
in China, Korea and Mexico. Sales to unaffiliated customers represent net sales originating in entities physically located in the identified geographic area. Long-lived assets include
property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles, and other long-lived assets.

U.S.

Europe

Canada

Japan

Other

Non-U.S.

Consolidated


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

620,915

$

339,347

$

201,936

$

56,435

$

11,993

$

1,230,626

Long-lived assets

642,406

596,730

809,773

50,844

8,665

2,108,418


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

527,432

$

289,072

$

173,853

$

56,387

$

11,641

$

1,058,385

Long-lived assets

537,534

580,143

785,420

41,385

3,721

1,948,203


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

499,144

$

272,382

$

151,839

$

58,163

$

11,800

$

993,328

Long-lived assets

289,406

522,150

835,675

42,693

4,896

1,694,820

13. Discontinued Operations

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company initiated actions to sell Phase II-IV of the Clinical business. On May 9, 2006, the
Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement to sell Phase II-IV of the Clinical Services business for $215,000 in cash as part of a portfolio realignment which
would allow the Company to capitalize on core competencies. Accordingly, management performed a goodwill impairment test for the Clinical business segment assuming sale of the
Phase II-IV business. To determine the fair value of this segment, the Company used a combination of discounted cash flow methodology for the Phase I Clinical business and
expected selling price for the Phase II-IV Clinical business. Based on this analysis, it was determined that the book carrying value of


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

13. Discontinued Operations (Continued)

goodwill
assigned to the Clinical business reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value and therefore a $129,187 charge was recorded in 2006 to write-down the value of this goodwill. No
additional goodwill impairment was recorded during 2006. Goodwill will continue to be re-evaluated for impairment annually, as well as when events or circumstances occur.

In
addition, taking into account the planned divestiture of the Phase II-IV Clinical business, the Company performed an impairment test on the long-lived
assets of the Clinical Phase II-IV business. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that the book value of assets assigned to the Clinical Phase II-IV
business exceeded its future cash flows, which included the proceeds from the sale of the business, and therefore recorded an impairment of the assets of $3,900 during 2006.

During
2006, the Company also made a decision to close its Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS) business, which was formerly included in the Preclinical Services segment. The
Company performed an impairment test on the long-lived assets of the ISS business and based on that analysis, it was determined that the book value of the ISS assets exceeded the future
cash flows of the business. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,070 during 2006.

For
the year end December 30, 2006, the discontinued businesses recorded a loss from operations of $181,004 which included a $546 loss from the sale of the
Phase II-IV Clinical business. As a direct result of the sale, the Company realized a significant tax gain resulting in additional tax expense of $37,835, all of which has been paid
by the end of fiscal year 2006.

The
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to segregate, as discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities, operating results and cash flows, of the businesses
being discontinued for all periods presented. Operating results from discontinued operations are as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 29,


December 30,


December 31,


Net sales

$


$

73,658

$

128,900

Income (loss) from operations of discontinued businesses, before income taxes


(145,613

)

(3,475

)

Provision for income taxes

3,413

35,391


Income (loss) from operations of discontinued businesses, net of taxes

$

(3,146

)

$

(181,004

)

$

(3,790

)


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

13. Discontinued Operations (Continued)

Assets
and liabilities of discontinued operations at December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 consisted of the following:

December 29,


December 30,


Current assets

$

1,007

$

6,330

Long-term assets

4,187


Total assets

$

5,194

$

7,081

Current liabilities

$


$

3,667

Total liabilities

$


$

3,667

Current
assets included accounts receivable and prepaid income taxes. Non-current assets included property, plant and equipment and other long-term assets.
Current liabilities consisted of accounts payable, deferred income and accrued expenses.

14. Subsequent Event

During the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company continued to hold auction rate securities in its long term investment portfolio, as described in
footnote 3 to these financial statements. On February 13, 2008 the Company had $21,175 invested in Auction rate securities of which $14,175 failed to settle at auction. All auction rate
securities owned by the Company on February 13, 2008 are backed by federal student loans which are guaranteed by the Federal Family Educational Loan Program (FFELP) and continue to carry AAA
ratings. The Company continues to earn interest on the investments that failed to settle at auction, at the maximum contractual rate. As of December 29, 2007 the carrying value of these
investments was equal to the fair value based on successful auctions preceding and subsequent to
year end. The Company will continue to monitor the value of its auction rate securities each reporting period for a possible impairment if a decline in fair value occurs.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 2007

Total net sales

$

291,199

$

307,435

$

313.964

$

318,028

Gross profit

115,573

120,596

123,899

117,763

Operating income (loss)

54,701

56,725

63,631

52,134

Income from continuing operations

37,227

37,841

43,536

38,948

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(464

)


(759

)

(2,038

)

Net income

$

36,763

$

37,956

$

42,777

$

36,910

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.56

$

0.57

$

0.65

$

0.58

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

—

(0.01

)

(0.03

)

Net income

$

0.55

$

0.57

$

0.64

$

0.55

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.55

$

0.55

$

0.63

$

0.55

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

—

(0.01

)

(0.03

)

Net income

$

0.54

$

0.55

$

0.62

$

0.52

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Total net sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross profit

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income (loss)

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Income from continuing operations

28,515

32,781

32,133

31,792

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(128,630

)

(7,032

)

(48,739

)

3,397

Net income

$

(100,115

)

$

25,749

$

(16,606

)

35,189

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.40

$

0.46

$

0.48

$

0.48

Discontinued operations

(1.80

)

(0.10

)

(0.73

)

0.05

Net income

$

(1.40

)

$

0.36

$

(0.25

)

$

0.53

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.39

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.47

Discontinued operations

(1.76

)

(0.10

)

(0.72

)

0.05

Net income

$

(1.37

)

$

0.36

$

(0.24

)

$

0.52

Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005

Total net sales

$

241,410

$

250,890

$

242,829

$

258,199

Gross profit

96,068

101,604

96,077

95,955

Operating income (loss)

45,427

49,058

47,167

43,042

Income from continuing operations

28,344

31,009

29,889

56,547

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(696

)


2,184

(6,129

)

Net income

$

27,648

$

31,860

$

32,073

$

50,418

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.43

$

0.44

$

0.42

$

0.79

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

0.01

0.03

(0.09

)

Net income

$

0.42

$

0.46

$

0.45

$

0.70

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.41

$

0.43

$

0.41

$

0.77

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

0.01

0.03

(0.08

)

Net income

$

0.40

$

0.44

$

0.44

$

0.69


Quarterly Segment Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 2007

Research Models and Services

Sales

$

143,068

$

143,803

$

145,207

$

145,153

Gross margin

63,654

63,109

63,408

59,177

Operating income

47,021

45,268

45,574

39,288

Depreciation and amortization

5,569

5,663

5,780

6,366

Capital Expenditures

7,084

10,688

12,643

20,671

Preclinical Services

Sales

$

148,131

$

163,632

$

168,757

$

172,875

Gross margin

51,919

57,847

60,491

58,586

Operating income

23,444

27,426

29,993

22,678

Depreciation and amortization

14,344

15,569

16,180

16,908

Capital Expenditures

30,840

38,724

37,692

68,694

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(15,764

)

$

(15,969

)

$

(11,936

)

$

(9,832

)

Total

Sales

$

291,199

$

307,435

$

313,964

$

318,028

Gross margin

115,573

120,956

123,899

117,763

Operating income

54,701

56,725

63,631

52,134

Depreciation and amortization

19,913

21,232

21,960

23,274

Capital Expenditures

37,924

49,412

50,335

89,365

Quarterly Segment Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Research Models and Services

Sales

$

128,972

$

130,816

$

127,560

$

127,651

Gross margin

55,866

55,478

52,423

50,358

Operating income

40,476

38,003

36,691

32,619

Depreciation and amortization

5,035

5,237

5,185

5,345

Capital Expenditures

3,566

4,783

3,932

14,737

Preclinical Services

Sales

$

125,169

$

137,043

$

137,100

$

144,074

Gross margin

39,639

51,632

49,839

51,372

Operating income

13,788

22,530

22,971

23,034

Depreciation and amortization

14,625

15,288

15,389

16,482

Capital Expenditures

35,821

12,620

39,038

67,249

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(10,568

)

$

(12,831

)

$

(8,041

)

$

(10,499

)

Total

Sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross margin

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Depreciation and amortization

19,660

20,525

20,574

21,827

Capital Expenditures

39,387

17,403

42,970

81,986


Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures

(a)    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on their evaluation, required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15, promulgated by the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act are effective as of December 29, 2007 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under
the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include,
without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or submits under the Act is accumulated and
communicated to the issuer's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can
provide only reasonable assurances of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in designing and evaluating the controls and procedures.
We continually are in the process of further reviewing and documenting our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial reporting,
and accordingly may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)    Changes in Internal Controls

There were no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of
the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the quarter ended December 29, 2007 that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Management's
report on our internal controls over financial reporting can be found in Item 8 of this report. The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's report on the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting can also be found in Item 8 of this report.

Item 9B.    Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

A.    Directors and Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The information required by this Item regarding the directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the Company's
officers and directors will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein by reference
thereto. The information required by this Item regarding the Company's corporate governance will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Corporate Governance" and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

B.    Executive Officers of the Company

The information required by this Item regarding the executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I of this Form 10-K under the
heading "Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K."

C.    Audit Committee Financial Expert

The information required by this Item regarding the audit committee of the Board of Directors and financial experts will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement
under the section captioned "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Audit Committee and Financial Experts" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

D.    Code of Ethics

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of its employees and directors, including the principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions. The Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our website by selecting
the "Corporate Governance" link at

http://ir.criver.com

. The Company will provide to any person, without charge, a copy of its Code of Business Conduct
and
Ethics by requesting a copy from the Secretary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc., 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887.

E.    Changes to Board Nomination Procedures

Since February 2004, there have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Company's Board of Directors.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2007
Director Compensation," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," "Executive Compensation and Related Information" and "Report of Compensation Committee" and is incorporated
herein by reference thereto.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Beneficial Ownership of Securities" and "Equity
Compensation Plan Information" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto. See also Item 5. "Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities—Securities Authorized


for
Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" for the disclosure required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Related Person Transaction Policy" and "Corporate
Governance—Director Qualification Standards; Director Independence" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2008 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Statement of Fees Paid to Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits

Item 15(a)(1) and (2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules

See "Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statements Schedules" at Item 8 to this Form 10-K. Other financial
statement schedules have not been included because they are not applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and Item 15(c) Exhibits

The exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits. The Company
has identified in the Exhibit Index each management contract and compensation plan filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K in response to Item 15(c) of
Form 10-K.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Date: February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Corporate Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
below and on the dates indicated.

Signatures

Title

Date

By:

/s/

JAMES C. FOSTER

James C. Foster

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

NANCY T. CHANG

Nancy T. Chang

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

STEPHEN D. CHUBB

Stephen D. Chubb

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

GEORGE E. MASSARO

George E. Massaro

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.

George M. Milne, Jr.

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

C. RICHARD REESE

C. Richard Reese

Director

February 20, 2008


By:

/s/

DOUGLAS E. ROGERS

Douglas E. Rogers

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

SAMUEL O. THIER

Samuel O. Thier

Director

February 20, 2008

By:

/s/

WILLIAM H. WALTRIP

William H. Waltrip

Director

February 20, 2008


EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Description

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1).(2)

3.2

By-laws of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2).(2)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock, $0.01 per value per share (Filed as Exhibit 4.1).(2)

4.2

Indenture dated June 6, 2006, amount Charles river Laboratories International, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association.(3)

4.3

Form of 2.25% Convertible Senior Note due 2013.(3)

10.1

Severance Agreement between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and Real H. Renaud, dated January 20, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10.10).(1)+

10.2

1999 Charles River Laboratories Officer Separation Plan.(10)+

10.3

Charles River Laboratories 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.6)+(4).

10.4

Charles River Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan, as amended May 2003 and May 2005. (Filed as Exhibit 10.7).(4)+

10.5

Charles River Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan Inland Revenue Approved Rules for UK Employees (Filed as Exhibit 99.1).(12)+

10.6

Form of Indemnification Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.16).(2)+

10.7

Form of Change in Control Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.11).(4)+

10.8

Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.(8)+

10.9

Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan.+(6)

10.10

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan.+(6)

10.11

Inveresk Research Group, Inc. 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of May 4, 2004.+(5)

10.12

Charles River Laboratories Executive Life Insurance/Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.(7)+

10.13

Deferred Compensation Plan.(8)+

10.14

Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2006, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., the Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative
agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as syndication agent, and Bank of America, N.A., Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents.(9)

10.15

Charles River Laboratories 2007 Incentive Plan(11)+

10.16

Form of Performance Award Agreement(11)+

10.17

*

Form of Stock Option Award Agreement Under 2007 Incentive Plan

10.18

*

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Under 2007 Incentive Plan

21.1

*

Subsidiaries of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.

23.1

*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1

*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

31.2

*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

32.1

*

Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.

*

Filed
herewith.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

(1)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524), as amended,
filed June 6, 2000.

(2)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-35524), as amended,
filed June 23, 2000.

(3)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006.

(4)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 14, 2006.

(5)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed on October 20, 2004.

(6)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 1, 2004.

(7)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 9, 2005.

(8)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on February 14, 2006.

(9)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 2, 2006.

(10)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2007.

(11)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2007.

(12)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 5, 2001.

QuickLinks

PART I

Item 1. Business

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

Item 2. Properties

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant (pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K).

PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Report of Management

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (dollars in thousands)

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

Item 9B. Other Information

PART III

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits

Item 15(a)(1) and (2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules

Item 15(a)(3) and Item 15(c) Exhibits

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT INDEX