10-K


a2190829z10-k.htm

10-K


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 27, 2008

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD
FROM                                    TO

Commission File No. 001-15943

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

06-1397316

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

251 Ballardvale Street

Wilmington, Massachusetts

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

(Registrant's
telephone number, including area code):

(781) 222-6000

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes

o

No

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

ý

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

ý

On June 28, 2008, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately
$4,303,090,433.

As
of February 13, 2009, there were outstanding 66,789,799 shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.01 par value per share.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be
held on May 7, 2009, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after December 27, 2008, are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of the portions of the 2009 Proxy Statement expressly incorporated into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K by reference, such document shall not be deemed filed as part of this Form 10-K.


CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


Item

Page

PART I


Business


1A

Risk Factors


1B

Unresolved Staff Comments



Properties



Legal Proceedings



Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401 (b) of
Regulation S-K


PART II


Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



Selected Consolidated Financial Data



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


7A

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk



Financial Statements and Supplementary Data



Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


9A

Controls and Procedures


9B

Other Information


PART III


Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant



Executive Compensation



Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholders Matters



Certain Relationships and Related Transactions



Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV


Exhibits



PART I

Item 1.    Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and the future results
of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the industries in which Charles River operates and the
beliefs and assumptions of our management. Words such as "expect," "anticipate," "target," "goal," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," "will," "likely," "may," "designed,"
"would," "future," "can," "could" and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and trends or which do not relate to historical matters are intended to identify such
forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and beliefs of Charles River and involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict.
For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: future demand for drug discovery and development products and services, including the outsourcing of these services;
present spending trends and other cost reduction activities by our customers (particularly in light of the challenging economic environment); future actions by our management; the outcome of
contingencies; changes in our business strategy; changes in our business practices and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; market and industry
conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in the composition or level of our revenues; our cost structure; the impact of acquisitions and dispositions; the timing of the opening of
new and expanded facilities; our expectations with respect to sales growth, efficiency improvements and operating synergies (including the impact of specific actions intended to cause related
improvements); changes in our expectations regarding future stock option, restricted stock, performance awards and other equity grants to employees and directors; changes in our expectations regarding
our stock repurchases; expectations with respect to foreign currency exchange; assessing (or changing our assessment of) our tax positions for financial statement purposes; and our cash flow and
liquidity. In addition, these statements include the availability of funding for our customers and the impact of economic and market conditions on them generally the effects of our first quarter 2009
cost-saving actions and other actions designed to manage expenses, operating costs and capital spending and to streamline efficiency, the timing of our repatriation of accumulated income
earned outside the United States and the ability of Charles River to withstand the current market conditions. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they are predictions and are
subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. You
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or in the case of statements incorporated by reference, on the date of
the document incorporated by reference. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Form 10-K under the
section entitled "Our Strategy," the section entitled "Risks Related to Our Business and Industry," the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and in our press releases and other financial filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We have no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or risks. New information, future events or risks may cause the forward-looking events we discuss in this report not to occur.

Corporate History

Charles River has been operating since 1947 and during that time, we have undergone several changes to our business structure. Charles
River Laboratories International, Inc. was incorporated in 1994. In 2000, we completed the initial public offering of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. Our stock is traded
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CRL "and is included in the Standard & Poor's MidCap 400, 1000 and Composite 1500 Indices, the Dow Jones US Biotechnology Index, the NYSE
Composite Index and the NYSE Healthcare Sector Index, among others. We are



headquartered
in Wilmington, Massachusetts. Our headquarters mailing address is 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887, and the telephone number at that location is
(781) 222-6000. Our Internet site is

www.criver.com

. Material contained on our Internet site is not incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to "Charles River," "we," "us" or "our" refer to Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

This
Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of
our Internet site as soon as practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. In addition, you may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (

http://www.sec.gov

) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Overview

We are a leading global provider of solutions that accelerate the drug discovery and development process, including research models and
associated services, and outsourced preclinical services. The drug development process continues to require the steadily increasing investment of time and money—various studies and reports
estimate it takes between 10-15 years, between $800 million and $1 billion, and exploration of more than 10,000 drug compounds to produce a single FDA approved drug.
Charles River is positioned to leverage our core competencies in laboratory animal medicine and science, and regulatory-compliant preclinical services in an efficient and cost-effective
way to aid our customers in bringing their drugs to market faster.

We
currently have two reporting segments: Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS). We provide the animal research models required in research and development of
new drugs, devices and therapies and have been in this business for 60 years. We have built upon our core competencies to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of products and services. Our
wide array of tools and services enables our customers to reduce costs, increase speed and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. Our customer base includes
global pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions around the world. We currently operate approximately 70
facilities in 17 countries worldwide. Our products and services, supported by our global infrastructure and deep scientific expertise, enable our customers to meet many of the challenges of
early-stage life sciences research. In 2008, our net sales from continuing operations were $1.34 billion, and while we had a net operating loss of $521.8 million, this included a
$700.0 million goodwill impairment charge.

In
recent years, we have completed a number of acquisitions that have broadened our present portfolio of high-end services to include general toxicology, specialty
toxicology, discovery and imaging services, biopharmaceutical services and Phase I clinical services. In addition, these acquisitions:

•

significantly expanded our overall corporate size;

•

significantly increased the breadth of the products and services that we offer; and

•

expanded and strengthened our global footprint in the growing market for pharmaceutical research and development services.

These
acquisitions, which include the acquisitions of NewLab BioQuality AG and MIR Preclinical Services in 2008, have been critical in our continuing mission to support our key
pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers, who are increasingly seeking full service, global partners to whom they can outsource more of their preclinical research and development efforts. By some
estimates, the outsourced drug development services market is approximately $5.0 billion annually. It is thought that this represents only 20-25% of all of the drug development work
currently performed, and is expected to increase over time as outsourcing trends continue.



In
2008, much of our focus has been dedicated towards our continued positioning of ourselves to take advantage of long-term opportunities to support our clients as they
continue to outsource drug development services. The major elements of our capacity expansion program, which has been underway for three years and included the replacement of two of our larger
existing PCS facilities with new, state-of-the-art facilities, are drawing to a close. We opened the first of the replacement sites in Massachusetts in 2007 and the
second in Nevada in 2008. In addition, we opened a new PCS facility in China in late 2008, which we anticipate will be one of the first GLP-compliant facilities in China by the end of the
first half of 2009, bolstering our efforts to become the partner of choice for our global pharmaceutical customers as they establish and expand research and development activities in China. We expect
to open a new PCS facility in Sherbrooke (Canada) in the first quarter of 2009 in order to relieve capacity constraints at our Montreal facility. However, as a result of certain market factors which
emerged in the second half of 2008 and negatively affected our sales growth, we evaluated our expansion plans and determined that we have sufficient capacity to accommodate our clients' current
demand. Accordingly, we have delayed the expansion of our Ohio facility until 2010 when the industry will be better positioned to absorb additional capacity. In addition to our PCS capacity
expansions, in 2008 we opened a new RMS facility in Maryland, in part to support the 10-year agreement with the National Cancer Institute to manage its research model colonies.

Research Models and Services (RMS).

Charles River has been supplying research models to the drug development industry since 1947. With
approximately
150 different strains, we continue to maintain our position as the global leader in the production and sale of research models, principally genetically and virally defined purpose-bred
rats and mice. We also provide a variety of related services that are designed to assist our customers in supporting the use of research models in drug development. With multiple facilities located on
three continents (North America, Europe and Asia (Japan)), we maintain production centers, including a total of approximately 180 barrier rooms or isolator facilities, strategically located near our
customers. In 2008, RMS accounted for 49% of our total net sales and approximately 41% of our employees including approximately 128 science professionals with advanced scientific degrees.

Our
RMS segment is comprised of (1) Research Models, (2) Research Model Services and (3) other related products and services.

Research Models.

A significant portion of this business is comprised of the commercial production and sale of research models,
principally
purpose-bred rats, mice and other species for use by researchers. We provide our rodent models to numerous customers around the world, including most pharmaceutical companies, a broad
range of biotechnology companies, many government agencies, and leading hospitals and academic institutions. We have approximately 23 production facilities located in 9 countries worldwide, which are
strategically located to be in close proximity to our customers. Our research models include both standard strains and disease models such as those with compromised immune systems, which are
increasingly in demand as early-stage research tools. The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and foreign regulatory bodies typically require the safety and efficacy of new drug
candidates be tested on research models like ours prior to testing in humans. As a result, our research models are an essential part of the drug discovery and development process.

Our
rodent species have been and continue to be some of the most extensively used research models in the world, largely as a result of our continuous commitment to innovation and quality
in the breeding process. Our research models are bred and maintained in controlled environments which are designed to ensure that the animals are free of specific viral and bacterial agents and other
contaminants that can disrupt research operations and distort results. With our barrier room production capabilities, we are able to deliver consistently high-quality research models
worldwide.

Our
small research models include:

•

outbred animals, which are genetically heterogeneous;

•

inbred animals, which are genetically identical;



•

hybrid animals, which are the offspring of two different inbred parents;

•

spontaneous mutant animals, which contain a naturally occurring genetic mutation (such as immune deficiency); and

•

other genetically modified research models, including knock-out models with one or more disabled genes and
transgenic animals.

We
also offer proprietary, disease-specific mouse and rat models used to find new treatments for diseases such as diabetes, obesity and cardiovascular and kidney disease. We are
presently focusing our disease model program on four areas of research: cardiovascular, metabolic, renal and oncology which,
in addition to providing overlapping disease modalities that support multiple uses of certain models, also permits us to concentrate on focused sales and marketing efforts.

In
addition to our small research models, we also are a premier provider of high-quality purpose-bred, specific pathogen-free (SPF) or disease free,
large research models to the biomedical research community, principally for use in their drug discovery and development studies.

Research Model Services.

RMS also offers a variety of services, described below, designed to assist our customers in screening
drug candidates
faster. These services capitalize on the technologies and relationships developed through our research model business, and address the need among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to
outsource the non-core aspects of their drug discovery activities. These services include those which are related to genetically defined research models for in-house research,
as well as those services designed to implement efficacy screening protocols to improve the customer's drug evaluation process. We currently offer four major categories of research models
services—Genetically Engineered Models and Services, Consulting and Staffing Services, Research Animal Diagnostics, and Discovery and Imaging Services.

Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS).

In this area of our business, we assist our customers in validating, maintaining,
improving,
breeding and testing research models purchased or created by our customers for biomedical research activities. While the creation of a genetically engineered model (GEM) can be a critical scientific
event, it is only the first step in the discovery process. Productive utilization of GEMs requires significant additional technical expertise. We provide breeding expertise, model
characterization (including genotyping and phenotyping) and colony development, quarantine, embryo cryopreservation, embryo transfer and health and genetic monitoring. We provide these services to
over 500 laboratories around the world from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to hospitals and universities and maintain more than 1,000 different types of naturally occurring or genetically
engineered models for our customers.

Consulting and Staffing Services.

Building upon our core capability as the leading provider of high-quality research models, we manage
animal care operations (including recruitment, training, staffing and management services) on behalf of government and academic organizations, as well as commercial customers. Demand for our services
results from the growing trend by these research institutions to outsource internal functions or activities that are not critical to the core scientific innovation process, or for which they do not
maintain the necessary resources in-house. In addition, we believe that our expertise in animal care and facility operations enhances the productivity and quality of our customers' animal
care and use programs.

Research Animal Diagnostics.

We assist our customers in monitoring and analyzing the health and genetics of the research models used in
their
research protocols. We developed this capability internally by building upon the scientific foundation created by the diagnostic laboratory needs of our research model business. Depending upon a
customer's needs, we may serve as its sole-source testing laboratory, or as an alternative source supporting its internal laboratory capabilities. We believe that the continued growth in
model development and characterization and utilization of specific disease models and GEMs will drive our future growth as the reference laboratory of choice for health and genetic testing of
laboratory animals.



Discovery and Imaging Services.

Augmenting our traditional model production and GEMS described above, we believe there are emerging
opportunities to
assist our customers in a variety of discovery and imaging areas, such as by speeding the development process by providing services that prepare models to be used in studies immediately upon arrival
at the customer's facility, rather than requiring time and effort on the part of the customer to prepare the models. As a result of our veterinary medicine expertise, we are well positioned to provide
such services, which include surgical procedures, feeding and aging, and biological and chemical modification. In addition, through our acquisition of MIR Preclinical Services, we now offer extensive

in vivo

imaging capabilities, as well as expertise in oncology and inflammation pharmacology. The Discovery and Imaging Services that we offer through
our RMS business are complimentary to the Discovery Support services that we offer through our PCS business.

Other Related Research Model Products and Services.

We also offer two other categories of products and services within
RMS—endotoxin and
microbial detection products and vaccine support.

Endotoxin and Microbial Detection (EMD or In Vitro).

Our EMD business provides non-animal, or

in
vitro,

methods for lot release testing of medical devices and injectable drugs for endotoxin contamination. We are committed to being the leader in providing our customers with

in vitro

alternatives as these methods become scientifically validated and commercially feasible, and toward that goal we work with and support the
European Center for Validation of Alternative Methods in these efforts. Endotoxin testing uses a processed extract from the blood of the horseshoe crab, known as limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL). The
LAL test is the first and only major FDA-validated

in vitro

alternative to an animal model test. The process of extracting blood is
generally not harmful to the crabs, which are subsequently returned to their natural ocean environment. Our

in vitro

technology business produces and
distributes endotoxin testing kits, reagents, software, accessories, instruments and associated services to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies worldwide. We are a market leader in endotoxin
testing, which is used for FDA-required quality control testing of injectable drugs and medical devices, their components and the processes by which they are manufactured.

We
have developed the next generation of the endotoxin testing platform, known as the Endosafe Portable Testing System (Endosafe®-PTS™). The PTS is a
portable endotoxin testing platform which allows rapid endotoxin testing in the central laboratory or in the field, affording researchers accurate and timely results. In 2006, we received FDA approval
for the sale and marketing of the PTS system for FDA-required lot release endotoxin testing. The PTS can also be used for non-regulated applications, ranging from drug research
and development to environmental monitoring. The PTS system has recently expanded into markets such as cell transplant and dialysis clinics, and, especially, nuclear pharmacies, where PTS is being
adopted for lot release testing of nuclear medicines in response to pending FDA regulations. We are anticipating other opportunities developing as our customers react to the FDA's Process Analytical
Technology (PAT) Initiative. In addition, over the next few years we look towards exploring other applications such as the environmental contaminant markets (pesticides and hazardous materials) and
clinical diagnostics (infectious disease at point of care).

Vaccine Support.

We are the global leader for the supply of specific pathogen-free, or SPF, chickens and fertile chicken eggs. SPF
chicken embryos are used by animal health companies as self-contained "bioreactors" for the manufacture of live viruses. These viruses are used as a raw material primarily in poultry, as
well as human vaccine, applications. The production of SPF eggs is done under biosecure conditions, similar in many ways to our research model production. We have a worldwide presence in North America
with several SPF egg production facilities in the United States and contracted production capabilities in Hungary, and franchise operations in India, China and Australia. We also operate a specialized
avian laboratory in the United States, which provides in-house testing quality control testing of the SPF flocks, offers testing services to vaccine companies and commercial poultry
operations, and manufactures poultry diagnostics and bulk antigens for poultry vaccines.



Preclinical Services (PCS).

Our PCS customers are principally engaged in the discovery and development of new drugs, devices and
therapies.

Discovery

represents the earliest stages of research in the life sciences, directed at the identification, screening and selection of a lead compound
for future drug development. Discovery activities typically last anywhere from 4-6 years in conventional pharmaceutical research and development timelines.

Development

activities, which follow, and which can take up to seven years, are directed at demonstrating the

safety,
tolerability

and

clinical efficacy

of the selected drug candidates. During the preclinical stage of the development process, a
drug candidate is tested

in vitro

(typically on a cellular or subcellular level in a test tube or multi-well petri plate) and

in vivo

(in research models)
to support planned or on-going human trials. With our focus on early-stage drug development support, we view
clinical Phase I studies as a strategic component of our preclinical service offerings.

The
development services portion of our PCS business enables our customers to outsource their critical, regulatory-required drug and toxicology disposition activities to us. The demand
for these services was historically driven by preclinical development programs of biotechnology companies, which traditionally have been outsourced, and also by the selective outsourcing strategy of
larger global pharmaceutical companies. The necessary significant investments in personnel, facilities and other capital resources required in order to efficiently conduct and perform these activities
means that global pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies are frequently choosing to outsource their development activities, allowing them to focus on their core competencies of
innovation and early drug discovery and, particularly for pharmaceutical companies, promotion and market distribution.

We
are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services worldwide and offer particular expertise in the design, execution and reporting of general and specialty toxicology
studies, especially those dealing with innovative therapies and biologicals. We currently provide preclinical services at multiple facilities located in the United States, Canada, Europe and Asia
(China). We have recently completed significant expansions at our preclinical facilities in Massachusetts and Nevada, and are nearing completion of an expansion of capacity in Canada. In recognition
of the current market conditions, we are postponing the expansion of our Ohio facility until such time as our available capacity is filled, which we target as 2010. Our PCS segment represented 51% of
our total net sales in 2008 and employed 59% of our employees including approximately 450 science professionals with advanced scientific degrees.

We
currently offer the following preclinical services, in which we include both

in vivo

and

in
vitro

studies, supportive laboratory services, and strategic preclinical consulting and program management to support product development from inception to proof of concept.

Toxicology.

Toxicology is one of our core preclinical competencies and a competitive strength. Once a lead molecule is selected,
the stage of
preclinical development begins where appropriate toxicology studies are conducted to support initial clinical trials. These studies are performed on animal models to understand the toxic effects that
a compound has on an organism over a variety of doses and over various time periods, and focus on safety and potential harmful effects. Our toxicology services feature:

•

all the standard protocols for general toxicity testing (genotoxicity, safety pharmacology, acute, subacute, chronic
toxicity and carcinogenicity potential) required for regulatory submissions supporting "first-in-human" to "first-on-the-market" strategies;



•

expertise in specialty routes of administration and modes of administration (e.g., infusion, intravitreal
administration, and inhalation), which are important not only for the testing of potential pharmaceuticals, but also for safety testing of medical devices, industrial chemicals, food additives,
agrochemicals, biocides, nutraceuticals, animal health products and other materials;

•

market-leading expertise in the conduct and assessment of reproductive and developmental toxicology studies (in support of
larger scale, human clinical trials);

•

services in important specialty areas such as ocular, bone, juvenile/neonatal, and immuno-toxicology as well as
photobiology and dermal testing;

•

work in all major therapeutic areas;

•

study design and strategic advice to our clients based on our wealth of experience in support of drug development; and

•

a strong history of aiding our sponsors in reaching their regulatory or internal milestones for safety testing, including
studies addressing stem cell therapies, DNA vaccines, recombinant proteins, standard small molecules and medical devices.

Our
toxicology facilities operate in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) as required by the FDA as well as other international regulatory bodies. Our facilities are regularly inspected by
U.S. and other GLP compliance monitoring authorities, as well as our own and our customers' Quality Assurance departments.

Pathology Services.

In the drug development process, the ability to identify and characterize clinical and anatomic pathologic
change is critical in
determining the safety of a new compound. We employ a large number of highly trained pathologists who use state-of-the-art techniques to identify potential
compound-related changes within tissues, fluids and cells, as well as at the molecular level. Pathology support is critical for regulatory driven safety studies, but also for specialized investigative
studies, discovery support, and stand-alone immunohistochemistry evaluations for monoclonal antibodies. Key "go/no-go" decisions regarding continued product development are typically
dependent on the identification, characterization and evaluation of gross and microscopic pathology findings we perform for our clients.

Bioanalysis, Pharmacokinetics, and Drug Metabolism.

In support of preclinical drug safety testing, our customers are required to
demonstrate ample
drug exposure, stability in the collected sample, kinetics of their drug or compound in circulation, the presence of metabolites, and with recombinant proteins and peptides, the presence of
anti-drug antibodies. We have scientific depth in the sophisticated analytical techniques required to satisfy these requirements for a number of drug classes (including oligonucleotide and
inhibitory RNAs). In the event that the sample analysis for preclinical study support translates to opportunities to analyze clinical samples for the same drug once human testing begins, we have
opportunities to capture the benefits of bridging preclinical bioanalysis with later clinical development. Once the analysis is complete, our scientists evaluate the data to provide information on the
pharmacokinetics and/or toxicokinetics of the exposure to the drug, as well as complete evaluation of the distribution of the drug or metabolites by radio-labeled techniques. Pharmacokinetics refers
to understanding what the body does to a drug or compound once administered, including the process by which the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, metabolized,
and excreted (ADME); toxicokinetics refers to the same understanding as applied to potential toxic substances. Our clients require these studies for the full preclinical assessment of the disposition
of the drug, the results of which are used in the final preclinical safety evaluation of the compound.



Discovery Support.

At the earliest stages of lead compound identification, our scientists are engaged in evaluating the activity
and efficacy of drug
candidates in several important therapeutic areas, including:

•

asthma (through our specialized disease model colonies);

•

bone disease (using our state-of-the-art imaging and pathology capabilities);

•

ophthalmology (using our models of neovascularization);

•

general cardiovascular and device testing (using our surgical models); and

•

early drug formulation and bioanalysis support and method development.

We
also offer lead optimization strategies including early pharmacokinetic, metabolism, and toxicology support to help in early integrative drug selection criteria. The Discovery Support services that
we offer
through our PCS business are complimentary to the Discovery and Imaging Services that we offer through our RMS business.

Biopharmaceutical Services.

We provide specialized characterization, identity and safety testing of biologicals frequently outsourced by global pharmaceutical and
biotechnology developers. Our laboratories in the United States, Germany (acquired in 2008 through our purchase of NewLab BioQuality AG), Scotland and Ireland provide timely, compliant molecular
biology, virology, bioanalytical, immunochemistry, microbiology and related services. Our services in this area confirm that biological processes and the drug candidates produced are consistent,
correctly defined, stable and essentially contaminant free. This type of testing is required by the FDA and other global regulatory authorities for our customers to obtain new drug approvals, to
maintain government licensed manufacturing facilities and to release approved therapeutic products for patient treatment.

Our
manufacturing services group grows and stores well-characterized early-stage client cell lines for later development or manufacture of therapeutic proteins and vaccines
for clinical trials. We also collaborate with clients on process development, validation, manufacturing scale-up and biological testing.

Phase I Trials in Healthy, Normal and Special Populations

Phase I clinical trials are usually short duration studies conducted on a small number (20-100) of healthy human
subjects (although special populations can be used) under highly controlled conditions. Testing is usually performed where trial participants can be closely monitored in a secure environment, such as
at a clinic-type facility or hospital.

Our
clinical services capabilities are centered around our premier Phase I clinic in Tacoma, Washington with a capacity of 250 beds. We focus our clinical services business on
high-end clinical pharmacology studies in healthy participants. From a strategic perspective, we believe that our clinical services business benefits from pull-through from our
preclinical and laboratory services (particularly with our biotechnology customers). Correspondingly, our preclinical and laboratory services businesses benefit from the presence of our Phase I
clinical offerings as we can take advantage of enhanced economies of scale as well as "pull-down" from existing clinical customers.

We
offer a wide range of Phase I clinical research services designed to move lead pharmaceutical candidates rapidly from preclinical development through Phase I
pharmacokinetic tolerability and pharmacodynamic assessment to explore human pharmacology. We can conduct studies across a wide range of therapeutic areas, and have demonstrated experience in complex
dose tolerance, radio-labeled, cardiac safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and bioavailability studies. In addition, we provide customers with high-end
"first-in-human" studies for novel compounds, and expertise in complex drug-drug interaction studies. Participants at our clinics are evaluated through an intensive
screening



process
to ensure study suitability. We employ clinical regulatory compliance staff to monitor the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials and to assure management that these trials are
conducted in compliance with appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our Strategy

Our objective is to be the preferred strategic global partner for our clients in accelerating the search for drugs, devices and
therapies. From discovery through proof of concept, our goal is to deliver a full portfolio of products and services for drug discovery and development (which are almost entirely mandated by law) and
to partner with our clients to create the greatest value and strategic benefit to them. Our business is primarily driven by the continued growth of research and development spending by pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies, the federal government and academic institutions, and of outsourced services. According to reports by the Biomedical Industry Advisory Group, it takes 11 to
16 years and costs in the range of $180 million to $1.65 billion, with an average cost of approximately $900 million, to bring a new drug to market. Similarly, a separate
report by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America estimate that it takes 10 to 15 years and costs in excess of $800 million to develop a drug ($1.2 billion for a
biologic).

As
the pressure to develop a strong pipeline of innovative new drugs increases, so does the pressure to contain costs, to implement research in multiple countries simultaneously and to
identify, hire and retain a breadth of scientific and technical experts. These pressures are becoming more intense as patent expiries approach for many of our customers, leading them to increasingly
rationalize their portfolios around therapeutic areas, streamline their operations, and look to outside partners to manage their non-core activities. In order to facilitate and speed their
research (as well as to convert largely fixed costs into variable expenses), our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are increasingly making strategic decisions to outsource services which can
be provided by high-quality full service providers like us. For instance, many of our larger customers—particularly those in the pharmaceutical industry—have
announced plans to rationalize their workforce and facilities and/or increase outsourcing in order to concentrate on their core businesses and new product research and identification. These challenges
are also leading to an increase in the role of procurement for cost control purposes, resulting in more bundled services and unique and deeper partnership arrangements from the perspective of both
facility management and breadth of service. Over the past several years, we believe that the increase in these
actions and the necessary growth of outsourcing is being driven by a unique confluence of events, including:

•

the current outlook for drugs coming off patent protection and resulting threats from generic drug manufacturers, which
are expected to affect a large percentage of these companies' existing revenues in the intermediate future (up to an estimated 30% of pharmaceutical companies' revenues by 2012);

•

the reduction over the past decade in growth rate of drugs gaining approval;

•

increased pressure to find drugs to cure critical diseases, many of which are complex and chronic and affect small patient
populations, increasing risk and cost of development while segmenting and shrinking the patient populations from blockbusters to smaller, more specialized indications;

•

continued productivity and cost containment pressures on the medical device, diagnostics and biopharmaceutical industries
due in part to escalating global healthcare costs, increasing concentration of buying power attributable to larger payors and governments, while customers in those fields simultaneously need to manage
increased financial focus on operating margins and returns;

•

increasing globalization of drug development (particularly increased research and development activity in the India and
China markets);

•

heightened regulatory authority scrutiny worldwide, particularly concerning drug safety; and



•

enhanced urgency to push the growing number of new compounds through the drug pipeline.

Outsourcing
allows our customers to concentrate their internal expertise and resources on early drug discovery, while continuing to advance their most promising products through the
development pipeline. This creates opportunities for companies such as ours who can help optimize our clients' programs and assist in accelerating the drug discovery and development process. Our
strategy is to capitalize on these opportunities by continuing to build our portfolio of premium, value-added products and services through internal development and investment, augmented by strategic
"bolt-on" transactions.

Our
customers have faced a challenging market environment toward the end of 2008 and start of 2009. Among the factors that have affected them, we have seen the following have the most
material impact:

•

Large pharmaceutical companies have intensified their cost-savings and efficiency actions, and have announced
significant initiatives to improve their research and development productivity and enhance their drug pipelines. This focus has been manifested through reductions in infrastructure and by spending
constraints. In the short term, we have seen large pharmaceuticals slow down their preclinical and Phase I studies in favor of their later-stage products as they reprioritize compound pipelines
(focusing on the back-end of their pipelines in the near-term) and moderate their spending per drug candidate;

•

Biotechnology customers, particularly those that are cash-negative, have been highly focused on rationing
their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment. In general, funding for biotechnology companies has been compromised by the current economic crisis;

•

Many customers are narrowing their pipeline focus to a smaller number of similar, high potential therapeutic areas where
they may yield the greatest returns;

•

Many larger customers have diversified their technology platform bases and have focused their portfolios across biologics
(therapeutic proteins, antibodies, RNAi and vaccines) while retaining their core expertise in small molecules;

•

Our customers generally have been focused on near-term cost constraints as they contend with the challenges of
the global economic slowdown; and

•

Senior management turnover and structural realignment has resulted in some internal turmoil and slower decision-making in
some of our larger customers while they finalize and roll-out their restructuring plans.

While
the short term consequences of these actions have temporarily mitigated the outsourcing growth rate trends, we believe that in the mid-term there is no fundamental
change in our clients' drug development activities and strategies, and in fact these changes will provide enhanced outsourcing opportunities going forward. In particular, we believe that as larger
pharmaceutical companies become leaner and more efficient, they will also become more conservative in their staffing, lose experienced personnel, and generally focus on their core competencies of
fundamental research and development and commercialization. This should lead to resumption of outsourcing as they assess their key internal priorities. Charles River is positioned to address our
customers' future needs, as we can:

•

provide external expertise which may be too costly for our customers to build and/or maintain in-house;

•

partner with customers to allow them to compensate for recent capacity reductions;

•

provide flexible arrangements to better balance our clients' workload/staff requirements;

•

provide customized solutions by therapeutic area;

•

address our customers' demands for "non-core" but strategically important activities, such as

in vivo

biology, general and
specialty toxicology and program management; and



•

provide value to our customers through broad-based partnerships across the breadth of the Charles River portfolio.

In
today's business environment, we believe there is a particular advantage in being a global, full service, high-quality provider of services throughout the drug discovery
and development continuum. Many of our customers, especially large pharmaceutical companies, are attracted to Tier 1 contract research organizations with a full breadth of capabilities, and
choose to establish preferred provider relationships with only a small number, which allows them to simplify their relationship management as well as access greater value from their outsourcing
partner. Recent trends suggest that large pharmaceutical restructurings, with increased focus on key therapeutic areas, may favor larger contract research organizations who can present customers with
the benefits of economies of scale and scope, global footprint and simplified communications and coordination. Those companies with critical mass and financial stability are likely to have an
advantage, as we expect that customers will gravitate towards placing long-term studies with providers they can rely upon. We are focused on being recognized as a premier preferred
provider and building broader and deeper long-term strategic partnerships with our customers. Accordingly, with many of our largest customers, we enter into global preferred provider
agreements that span both segments of our business. And as the role of the procurement department of our customers in selecting outsourcing partners increases, we expect that global reach and the
availability of value-added services will become essential, which will aid Charles River in capitalizing on future opportunities. In addition, in response to individual customer needs, we have also
been flexible in entering into broad-based multi-year partnering arrangements, generally involving financial commitments from the customer, which tap into the broad array of physical
and/or service resources that we provide, such as reserving dedicated space within existing facilities, building out space to a particular specification, working within our clients' infrastructure, or
even establishing a new facility.

We
intend to continue to broaden the scope of the products and services we provide across the drug development continuum primarily through internal development, which will be augmented,
as needed, through focused acquisitions and alliances. Our approach to acquisitions is a disciplined one that seeks to target businesses that are a sound strategic fit and that offer the prospect of
enhancing stockholder value. This strategy may include geographic expansion of existing core services, strengthening of one of our core services or the addition of a new product or service in a
related or adjacent business. In 2008, we completed 6 acquisitions, ranging in size from $48.5 million to $1.4 million.

We
believe that we are well positioned to exploit both existing and new outsourcing opportunities. As strategic outsourcing by our customers increases, we believe that our expertise in
areas previously addressed by our customers' in-house capabilities allows us to provide a more flexible, efficient and cost-effective alternative for them. In short, because
these products and services are the core of our business, we are able to build and maintain expertise and tap into economies of scale that are difficult for our customers to match with their internal
capabilities.

We
intend to focus our marketing efforts on, among other things, stimulating demand for further outsourcing across our entire portfolio. We believe that our ability to provide solutions
that address all aspects of

in vivo

biology are increasingly attractive to our customers, and we are aligning our commercial activities to deliver
flexible, customized programs designed to meet our client's global and site-specific needs, with an increasing emphasis on defining efficiency metrics and tangible value. In addition, as
our customers narrow their focus toward specific therapeutic areas, we have increasingly aligned our services portfolio along therapeutic lines, particularly those subject to major research areas,
such as oncology, metabolism, inflammation and cardiovascular. We have also focused on adding expertise in the biologics development areas. As a result of these collective efforts, we expect to be
better positioned to gain market share by taking advantage of these trends, as well as broader based collaboration across the

in vivo

discovery to
first-in-human continuum. In 2007 and 2008 we invested heavily in expanding our facilities capacity, which we expect to normalize beginning in 2009. Similarly,



we
are investing in our information technology systems and resources in order to better serve our customers, harmonize our data, and streamline our processes.

Customers

Our customers continue to consist primarily of all of the major pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, animal health,
medical device, diagnostic and other life sciences companies, and leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies. We have stable, long-term relationships with many of
our customers. During 2008, no single commercial customer accounted for more than 5% of our total net sales.

For
information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to both of our business segments for the last three fiscal years, please see Note 10 included in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. For information regarding net sales and long-lived assets attributable to operations
in the United States, Europe, Canada, Japan and other countries for each of the last three fiscal years, please review Note 10 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Sales, Marketing and Customer Support

We sell our products and services principally through our direct sales force and account management teams, the majority of whom work in
North America, with the balance in Europe and the Asia-Pacific countries. Our primary promotional activities include organizing scientific symposia, publishing scientific papers, making
presentations and participating at scientific conferences and trade shows in North America, Europe and Asia. We supplement these scientifically based marketing activities with trade advertising,
direct mail and newsletters. In 2008, we launched our newly designed website. The direct sales force is supplemented by international distributors and agents for our products and services,
particularly with respect to our EMD and Biopharmaceutical Services business.

Our
internal marketing/product management teams support the field sales staff and account management teams while developing and implementing programs to create close working
relationships with customers in the biomedical research industry. We maintain client/customer service, technical assistance and consulting service departments, which address both our customers'
routine and more specialized needs. We frequently assist our customers in solving problems related to animal husbandry, health and genetics, biosecurity, preclinical and clinical study design,
regulatory consulting, protocol development and other areas in which our expertise is widely recognized as a valuable resource by our customers.

Competition

Our strategy is to be a leader in each of the markets in which we participate. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of quality,
reputation, responsiveness, pricing, innovation, breadth of therapeutic and scientific expertise, timeliness and availability, supported by our professional bench strength in animal science and
toxicology, global capabilities and strategically located facilities worldwide. We are able to offer a unique portfolio through our broad array of both routine and specialized preclinical services, as
well as a wide range of research models and research model services.

The
competitive landscape for our two business segments varies.

•

For RMS, our main competitors include three smaller competitors in North America (each of whom have a global scope), and
several smaller competitors in Europe and in Japan. Of our main U.S. competitors, two are privately held businesses and the third is a government funded, not-for-profit
institution. We believe that none of our competitors in RMS has our comparable global reach, financial strength, breadth of product and services offerings, technical expertise or pharmaceutical and
biotechnology industry relationships.



•

As for PCS, we believe we are one of the two largest providers of preclinical services in the world, based on net service
revenue. Our commercial competitors for preclinical services consist of both publicly held and privately owned companies, and it is estimated that the top five participants (including Charles River)
account for approximately 50% of the global market (exclusive of clinical services), with the rest of the market remaining highly fragmented. Our PCS segment (including our Phase I business)
also competes with in-house departments of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and teaching hospitals. Independently, the Phase I clinical services market is
highly fragmented, with many public and private participants sharing the bulk of the market augmented by a number of smaller, limited-service providers also providing capacity.

We
believe that the barriers to entry in certain of our business units, particularly those which require substantial capital expenditures, trained and specialized personnel, and mandate
GLP compliant practices, are generally high and present a significant impediment for new market participants.

Industry Support and Animal Welfare

One of our core values is a concern for and commitment to animal welfare. We have been in the forefront of animal welfare improvements
in our industry, and continue to show our commitment with special recognition programs for employees who demonstrate an extraordinary commitment in this critical area of our business. We created our
own Humane Care Initiative, which is directed by our Animal Welfare and Training Group. The goal of the initiative is to assure that we continue as a worldwide leader in the humane care of laboratory
animals. Laboratory animals are an important resource that further our knowledge of living systems and contribute to the discovery of life-saving drugs and procedures. We work
hand-in-hand with the scientific community to understand how living conditions, handling procedures and stress play an important role in the quality and efficiency of research.
As animal caregivers and researchers, we are responsible to our clients and the public for the health and well being of the animals in our care.

We
support a wide variety of organizations and individuals working to further animal welfare as well as the interests of the biomedical research community. We fund scholarships to
laboratory animal training programs, provide financial support to non-profit institutions that educate the public
about the benefits of animal research and provide awards and prizes to outstanding leaders in the laboratory animal medicine field.

Employees

As of December 27, 2008, we had approximately 9,000 employees including approximately 577 science professionals with advanced
degrees, including approximately 143 D.V.M.s, 191 Ph.D.s and 13 M.D.s. Our employees are not unionized in the United States, although employees are unionized at some of our European facilities,
consistent with local customs for our industry. Our annual satisfaction surveys indicate that we have an excellent relationship with our employees.

Backlog

Our backlog for our PCS business segment was approximately $310.7 million at December 27, 2008 as compared to
$393 million at December 29, 2007. Our preclinical services are performed over varying durations, from short to extended periods of time, which may be as long as several years. We
maintain an order backlog to track anticipated revenue from studies and projects that either have not started, but are anticipated to begin in the near future, or are in process and have not been
completed. We only recognize a study or project in backlog after we have received written evidence of a customer's intention to proceed. We do not recognize verbal orders. Cancelled studies or
projects are removed from backlog.

We
believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, studies vary in duration
(i.e., some studies that are



included
in 2008 backlog may be completed in 2009, while others may be completed in later years). Second, the scope of studies may change, which may either increase or decrease their value. Third,
studies included in backlog may be subject to bonus or penalty payments. Fourth, studies may be terminated or delayed at any time by the client or regulatory authorities for a number of reasons,
including the failure of a drug to satisfy safety and efficacy requirements or a sponsor making a strategic decision that a study or service is no longer necessary. Delayed contracts remain in our
backlog until a determination of whether to continue, modify or cancel the study has been made. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all or most of the net revenues included
in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year.

Regulatory Matters

As our business operates in a number of distinct operating environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, we are subject to
numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory environments, as described below.

The
Animal Welfare Act (AWA) governs the care and use of certain species of animals used for research. The United States Congress has passed legislation which excludes laboratory rats,
mice and chickens used for research from regulation under the AWA. As a result, most of our United States small animal research model activities and our vaccine support services operations are not
subject to regulation under the AWA. For regulated species, the AWA and attendant Animal Care regulations require producers and users of regulated species to provide veterinary care and to utilize
specific husbandry practices such as cage size, shipping conditions, sanitation and, for certain species, environmental enrichment to assure the welfare of these animals. We comply with licensing and
registration requirement standards set by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for the care and use of regulated species. Our animal production facilities and preclinical facilities in
the U.S. are accredited by the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC), a private, nonprofit, international organization that promotes the humane
treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. AAALAC covers all species of laboratory animals, including rats, mice and birds. Our preclinical business is
also generally regulated by the USDA.

Our
import and export of animals in support of several of our business units as well as our operations in foreign countries are subject to a variety of national, regional, and local laws
and regulations, which establish the standards for the humane treatment, care and handling of animals by dealers and research facilities. We maintain the necessary certificates, licenses, detailed
standard operating procedures and other documentation required to comply with applicable regulations for the humane treatment of the animals in our custody at our locations.

Our
PCS business conducts nonclinical laboratory safety studies intended to support the registration or licensing of our clients' products throughout the world. A minor part of our RMS
business also conducts similar studies for our clients. The conduct of these studies must comply with national statutory or regulatory requirements for Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). GLP regulations
describe a quality system concerned with the organizational process and the conditions under which nonclinical laboratory studies are planned, performed, monitored, recorded, archived and reported.
GLP compliance is required by such regulatory agencies as the FDA, United States Environmental Protection Agency, European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, Medicines and Healthcare
Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, Health Canada, State Food and Drug Administration of the Peoples' Republic of China, and the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare. GLP
requirements are significantly harmonized throughout the world and our laboratories are capable of conducting studies in compliance with all appropriate requirements. To assure our compliance
obligations, we have established quality assurance units (QAU) in each of our nonclinical laboratories. The QAUs operate independently from those individuals that direct and conduct studies and
monitor each study to assure management that the facilities, equipment, personnel, methods, practices, records, and controls are in compliance with GLP. Our laboratory managers use the results of



QAU
monitoring as part of a continuous process improvement program to assure our nonclinical studies meet client and regulatory expectations for quality and integrity.

Our
PCS business also conducts human Phase I clinical trials and provides services in support of our clients' registration or licensing applications. Human clinical trials are
conducted in a progressive fashion beginning with Phase I, and in the case of approved drugs, continued through Phase IV trials. Phase I studies are the initial human clinical
trials and are conducted with a small number of subjects under highly controlled conditions. These clinical trials and services are performed in accordance with the International Conference on
Harmonization of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use Good Clinical Practice Consolidated Guidance and in compliance with regulations governing the conduct of
clinical investigations and the protection of human clinical trial subjects. In the United States, these trials and services must comply with FDA regulations and in Europe our clinical trials and
services must comply with the clinical trials directive of the European Union. Neither FDA regulations nor the clinical trials directive requires a quality assurance program; however, our
Phase I facilities have established quality assurance units that monitor the conduct and reporting of Phase I trials to assure that these trials are conducted in compliance with
appropriate regulatory requirements.

Our
manufacturing business produces endotoxin test kits, reagents, cell banks used in research and biopharmaceutical production and vaccine support products. Additionally, several of our
laboratories conduct identity, stability and potency testing in support of our clients' manufacturing programs. These activities are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national regulatory
agencies under their respective Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations. We are subject to inspection on a routine basis for compliance with these regulations. These regulations require that we
manufacture our products or perform testing in a prescribed manner with respect to GMP compliance, and maintain records of, our manufacturing, testing and control activities. We also maintain an
Establishment License with USDA's Center for Veterinary Biologics (CVB) that covers certain of our sites which manufacture antigens used in a licensed diagnostic kit for rodents
or—particular to our vaccine support business—which manufacturer USDA licensed antigens, antibodies, and viruses that are sold to clients for use in the manufacturing of their
own USDA licensed products. Our vaccine support
business also manufactures and markets two USDA licensed products that are considered final use products (Mycoplasma Gallisepticum Antigen and Mycoplasma Synoviae Antigen), and sites involved in the
manufacture of these articles are subject to regular inspection by USDA/CVB.

All
of our sites are also subject to licensing and regulation under national, regional and local laws relating to the surface and air transportation of laboratory specimens, the
handling, storage and disposal of laboratory specimens, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, and the safety and health of laboratory employees. Although we believe we are currently in compliance
in all material respects with such national, regional and local laws (which include the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, and European oversight agencies),
failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.

To
ensure that all business sectors comply with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and satisfy our client expectations for quality and regulatory compliance, we have
established a corporate regulatory affairs and compliance organization that oversees our corporate quality system and all quality assurance functions within the Company, headed by our Corporate Vice
President for Regulatory Affairs and Compliance.

Intellectual Property

We have developed and implemented computer software and technically derived procedures and products intended to maximize the quality
and effectiveness of our services. Although our intellectual property rights are valuable to our success, we believe that such factors as the technical expertise, proprietary know-how,
ability and experience of our professionals are more important, and that, overall,



these
technological capabilities provide significant benefits to our clients. Where we consider it appropriate, steps are taken to protect our know-how through confidentiality agreements
and protection through registration of title or use. In addition, we in-license technology and products from other companies where it enhances both our product and services business. In
the future, in-licensing may become a larger initiative to enhancing our offerings, particularly as we focus on therapeutic area expertise. With the exception of technology related to our

in vitro

testing business, including the Endosafe-PTS, we have no patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises or concessions which are
material and upon which any of the products or services we offer are dependent.

Corporate Governance

We are committed to operating our business with integrity and accountability. We strive to meet or exceed all of the corporate
governance standards established by the New York Stock Exchange, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal government as implemented by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Nine of the ten
members of our Board of Directors are independent and have no significant financial, business or personal ties to the Company or management and all of our Board committees are composed entirely of
independent directors. The Board adheres to Corporate Governance Guidelines and a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which has been communicated to employees and posted on our website. We are
diligent in complying with established accounting principles and are committed to providing financial information that is transparent, timely and accurate. We have a Related Person Transactions Policy
designed to promote the timely identification of such transactions and to ensure we give appropriate consideration to any real or perceived conflicts in our commercial arrangements. We have a global
process through which employees, either directly or anonymously, can notify management (and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors) of alleged accounting and auditing concerns or violations
including fraud. Our internal Disclosure Committee meets regularly and operates pursuant to formal disclosure procedures and guidelines which help to ensure that our public disclosures are accurate
and timely. Copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Related Person Transactions Policy are available on our website at www.criver.com under the "Investor
Relations—Corporate Governance" caption.

Item 1A.    Risk Factors

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC
are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note
that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted
by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to
be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.

The outsourcing trend in the preclinical and clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could slow our growth.

Over the past several years, some areas of our businesses have grown significantly as a result of the increase in pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies outsourcing their preclinical and clinical research support activities. While industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue for the next several years, a decrease
in preclinical and/or clinical outsourcing activity could result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of one or more of our expected higher-growth areas and adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing outsourcing demand from our customers, please see the section entitled "Our
Strategy" included elsewhere in the Form 10-K. Furthermore, our customer contracts are generally terminable on little or no notice. Termination of a large contract or multiple
contracts could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Our operations and financial results could be significantly affected by these risks.



A reduction in research and development budgets at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may adversely affect our business.

Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business
is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on compounds in the preclinical phase of research and development
and to outsource the products and services we provide. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could
have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology
companies, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. In particular, recent studies have indicated that a majority of
academic researchers are anticipating reductions in their budgets. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries, including funding for biotechnology
companies, which have suffered during the economic downturn in 2008/2009, also affect their research and development budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. The economic downturn has also
negatively affected us to the extent that the research and development budgets at our pharmaceutical customers have recently slowed down their preclinical and Phase I studies in favor of their
later-stage products as they reprioritize compound pipelines (focusing on the back-end of their pipelines in the near-term) and moderate their spending per drug candidate. For
additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been
influencing outsourcing demand from our customers, please see the section entitled "Our Strategy" included elsewhere in the Form 10-K.

A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business.

A portion of net sales in our RMS segment is derived from customers at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is
partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies. Government
funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently unpredictable. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of
uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. Also, government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and
other government agencies that fund research and development activities. Although recent reports indicate that the new administration's stimulus package includes a substantial increase in NIH funding
for 2009, NIH funding has remained fairly flat in recent years and a reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our
financial results.

Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnological industries, including potential health care reform, could decrease the
need for the services we provide.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, but particularly in the United States, strictly regulate the drug development process. Our
business involves helping pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, among others, navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are
expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory
requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could
eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety testing procedures which utilize laboratory
animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected.



In
recent years the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have considered various types of health care reform in order to control growing health care costs. We are unable to predict what
legislative
proposals will be adopted in the future, if any. Similar reform movements have occurred in Europe and Asia.

Implementation
of health care reform legislation that contains costs could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect research and
development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the United States and abroad. In addition, new
laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for
pharmaceutical products, our customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development.

Our standard customer agreements contain customer-determined termination and service reduction provisions, which may result in less contract revenue than we anticipate.

Generally, our agreements with our customers provide that the customers can terminate the agreements or reduce the scope of services
under the agreements with little or no notice. Customers may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons, including: the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements;
unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; the customer's decision to forego or terminate a particular study; or the loss of funding
for the particular research study. If a customer terminates a contract with us, we are entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in
some cases, penalties. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate cancellation of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business (particularly our PCS segment) and, therefore,
may adversely affect our operating results.

Many of our contracts are fixed price and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond our control, or we may under-price or overrun cost estimates
with these contracts, potentially resulting in financial losses.

Many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and,
accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially under-price our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. In addition, these contracts may be terminated or reduced in scope either
immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, and often at the discretion of the customer. The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss or
delay of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business, although our contracts frequently entitle us to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all
fees earned by us up to the time of termination. Some contracts also entitle us to a termination fee.

Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to
incur additional costs.

Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain adventitious, infectious agents such as certain viruses and
bacteria because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents
in our animal production facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses
including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales.

Contaminations
typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting production or services. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss,
clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost customer orders and credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological



contaminations,
the potential for genetic mix-ups or mismatings also exists and may require the restarting of the applicable colonies. While this does not require the complete
clean-up, renovation and disinfection of the barrier room, it would likely result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. In addition,
contaminations expose us to risks that customers will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. There also exists a risk that contaminations from
models that we produce may affect our customer's facilities, with similar impact to them. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in man;
and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection.

All
such contaminations described above are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. We have made significant capital expenditures
designed to strengthen our biosecurity and have significantly improved our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations; however, contaminations may still occur.

Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally.

A significant part of our net sales is derived from operations outside the United States. Our international revenues, which include
revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, have represented approximately one-half our total net sales in recent years. We expect that international revenues will continue to
account for a significant percentage of our
revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business, including:

•

foreign currencies we receive for sales and which we record as expenses outside the United States could be subject to
unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue (and increase the amount of expenses) that we recognize and cause fluctuations in reported financial results;

•

certain contracts, particularly in Canada, are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we
incur expenses related to those contracts and where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations;

•

general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate;

•

potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts;

•

potential trade restrictions, exchange controls and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the United
States;

•

difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of violations of local
laws or the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by employees overseas or the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions;

•

unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;

•

the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations;

•

unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions;

•

longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and

•

import and export licensing requirements.

Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions.

We currently are engaged in a project to replace many of our numerous legacy business systems at our different sites globally with an
enterprise wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (ERP)



system.
The process of planning and preparing for such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges including data
conversion, system cutover and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments, missed sales, billing and accounting
errors and other operational issues. There have been numerous, well-publicized instances of companies experiencing difficulties with the implementation of ERP systems which resulted in
negative business consequences.

Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business.

The products and services which we provide our customers are essential to the drug discovery and development process, and are almost
universally mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities
with rats, mice and other rodents
have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, impacting the industry. This has included
on-site demonstrations near facilities operated by us. Any negative attention, threats or acts of vandalism directed against our animal research activities in the future could impair our
ability to operate our business efficiently.

Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply, which if interrupted could adversely affect our business.

We depend on a limited international source of supply of large animal models required in our product and service offerings. Disruptions
to their continued supply may arise from health problems, export or import restrictions or embargoes, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition
amongst suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system or other normal-course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption
or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms.

Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results.

Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the
disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, if we were to fail to verify
that informed consent is obtained from participants in connection with a particular Phase I clinical trial, the data collected from that trial could be disqualified and we might be required to
redo the trial at no further cost to our customer, but at substantial cost to us. Furthermore, the issuance of a notice of observations or a warning from the FDA based on a finding of a material
violation by us of good clinical practice, good laboratory practice or current good manufacturing practice requirements could materially and adversely affect us.

In
addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continues to be updated. Notably, there has been a recent
updating of guidance in Europe that will be implemented over a period of several years on a country-by-country basis. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed
for other areas that impact the biomedical research community including transportation and the use of disinfectants. In the United States, an updating of guidance used by the National Institutes of
Health and by certain oversight agencies has been recently funded, and it is expected that over the next 3 years, standards will be updated for the care and use of laboratory animals in all
aspects of our US business units. These new guidelines could cause us increased costs attributable to additional facilities, the need to add personnel to address new processes, as well as increased
administrative burden, and the upgrading of existing facilities.



The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive.

The drug discovery and development services industry is highly competitive. We often compete for business not only with other drug
discovery and development companies, but also with internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities
and teaching hospitals. We compete on a variety of factors, including:

•

reputation for on-time quality performance;

•

reputation for regulatory compliance;

•

expertise and experience in specific areas;

•

scope and breadth of service and product offerings;

•

broad geographic availability;

•

price/value;

•

technological expertise and efficient drug development processes;

•

quality of facilities;

•

financial stability;

•

size;

•

ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; and

•

ability to manage Phase I clinical trials both domestically and internationally.

If
we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that might adversely affect our operating results. The drug
discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, who are targets for each other and for larger
pharmaceutical companies (although recent trends in late 2008 and early 2009 may signal increased merger activity between larger pharmaceutical companies themselves). If this trend continues, it is
likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and contract research organizations generally, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, while there are
substantial barriers to entry for large, global competitors with broad-based services, small, specialized entities considering entering the contract research organization industry will continue to
find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities in acquiring and rolling up these companies, thus further increasing possible competition.
Furthermore, in recent years both Charles River and our competitors,
particularly in the preclinical services area, have been investing in capital projects to increase capacity. An ongoing challenge for all participants is balancing capacity growth and market demand.
If capacity has been increased too much, pressure to lower prices or to take on lower-margin studies and projects may occur. These competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our services
and could adversely affect our financial results.

We could be adversely affected by tax law changes in Canada and the United Kingdom.

We have substantial operations in Canada and the United Kingdom which currently benefit from favorable corporate tax arrangements. We
receive substantial tax credits in Canada from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments and benefits from tax credits and accelerated tax depreciation allowances in the United Kingdom. Any
reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or allowances would be likely to have a material adverse effect on profits, cash flow and our effective tax rate.



Impairment of goodwill may adversely impact future results of operations.

We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable and indefinite-lived acquired intangibles on our balance sheet due
to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of
management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, input from accredited valuation consultants, reviews of projected future income cash flows and statutory
regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions might have increased or decreased the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that could potentially result in a
different impact to our results of operations.

We
perform an annual impairment analysis of goodwill to determine if impairment exists. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to
identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using a weighted combination of a
market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based
approach, we utilize information about our Company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units.
Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the
overall level of inherent
risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant
estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others.
Our projections are based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our
assessment. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is
an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment.

The
second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which step one indicated impairment. The
implied fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in
step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value
of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets we utilize appraisals
for the fair value of property and equipment and valuations of certain intangible assets, including customer relationships.

Our
annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our initial assessment (step one) for 2008, the fair value of
our business units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth quarter and our business performance and outlook was not as
strong as anticipated coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to trigger another goodwill impairment test as of
December 27, 2008. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value our PCS business was less than its carrying value. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involved us
calculating the implied goodwill for the PCS business. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill resulting in a goodwill impairment of
$700 million.

Goodwill
will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The results of this year's impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and
operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or our market capitalization declines, this could



impact
the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years. To the extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its implied fair value and a charge will
be made to our earnings. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 27, 2008, we had recorded goodwill and
other intangibles of $593.7 million in the consolidated balance sheet.

Contract research services create a risk of liability.

As a contract research organization we face a range of potential liabilities which may include:

•

errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in preclinical or Phase I clinical studies that may lead to
inaccurate reports, which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing;

•

litigation risk, including resulting from our errors or omissions, associated with the possibility that the
drugs/compounds of our clients that were included in drug development trials we participated in may cause illness, personal injury or have other negative side effects to clinical study participants or
other persons (including death);

•

general risks associated with operating a Phase I clinical business, including negative consequences from the
administration of drugs to clinical trial participants or the professional malpractice of Phase I medical care providers;

•

risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our customers' property, such as research models and
samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials, or goods and materials in transit, while in our possession;

•

risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we run may be infected with diseases that may be
harmful and even lethal to themselves or humans despite preventive measures contained in our company policies for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and

•

errors and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or data from the trial.

We
attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods. Nonetheless, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks.

In
our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine, and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to
control the exposure of animal related disease or infections.

In
our PCS business, we attempt to reduce these risks by contract provisions entitling us to be indemnified or entitling us to a limitation of liability; insurance maintained by our
clients, investigators, and by us; and various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business.

In
both our RMS and PCS businesses, contractual indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct.
We could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim which is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision or in the
event that a party who must indemnify us does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or which is beyond the level of our insurance coverage. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be
able to maintain such insurance coverage on terms acceptable to us.

We may be unable to build out our facilities as anticipated.

To support our customers' demand for drug discovery and development services, including increased strategic focus on outsourcing
services and programs, we had engaged in a substantial capacity expansion program over the past two years with $227 million spent on capital expenditures in



and $197 million in 2008. We estimated $100-$120 million allocated for capital expenditures in 2009, as major expansions complete and capacity comes on-line.
Included in our 2009 capital plan are the following: continuing fit-out work at our new PCS facility in Nevada, dedicated space initiatives at our new PCS facility in Massachusetts,
expansions at our Canada and Scotland PCS facilities, and the remaining work for completing the construction of our new PCS facility in China. We cannot assure you that any or all of these facilities,
or any particular phase of such facilities, will be constructed on the anticipated timetable or on budget. Any material delay in bringing these facilities on-line, or substantial increase
in costs to complete these facilities, could materially and adversely affect us. In addition, the costs of these capacity expansion programs may have an adverse impact on our operating margins,
particularly within our PCS business.

If we are unable to attract suitable participants for our Phase I clinical trials, our business might suffer.

The Phase I clinical research studies we run rely upon the ready accessibility and willing participation of subjects.
Participants generally include people from the communities in which the studies are conducted, which such communities to date have provided a substantial pool of potential subjects for research
studies. Our Phase I clinical research activities could be adversely affected if we were unable to attract suitable and willing participants on a consistent basis.

New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research that could reduce demand for some of our products and services.

For many years, groups within the scientific and research communities have attempted to develop models, methods and systems that would
replace or supplement the use of living animals as test subjects in biomedical research. Some companies have developed techniques in these areas, including vaccine development, that may have
scientific merit. In addition, technological improvements to existing or new processes, such as imaging technology, could result in a refinement in the number of animal research models necessary to
conduct the required research. It is our strategy to participate in some fashion with any non-animal test method or other method that reduces the need for animal research models as it
becomes validated as a research model alternative or adjunct in our markets. For instance, we acquired imaging capabilities in 2008 through our acquisition of MIR Preclinical. However, we generally
may not be successful in commercializing these methods if developed, and sales or profits from these methods may not offset reduced sales or profits from research models. Alternative research methods
could decrease the need for research models, and we may not be able to develop new products effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales.

The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property
lawsuits.

The drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will
likely continue. Accordingly, we face potential patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar products and methods used in business or other suits alleging infringement of their
intellectual property rights. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, whether we
win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing
activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms.

We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services.

We may seek to develop and market new services that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. If we are unable
to develop new services and/or create demand for those newly developed services, our future business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected.



Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects.

At December 27, 2008, we had approximately $575.8 million of debt. This debt could have significant adverse effects on
our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the
repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates. For additional
information regarding our debt, please see Note 4 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, our business may suffer.

During the past seven years, we have expanded our business through several acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire businesses and
technologies and form strategic alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and
negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. For instance, in 2008, we expensed over $1.3 million for costs incurred for potential deals that we
decided to abandon prior to signing definitive agreements.

Even
if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include:

•

difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products or technologies;

•

challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including diversion of management's attention from other business
concerns;

•

potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification
we may obtain from the seller;

•

acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock
to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing stockholders;

•

loss of key employees of the acquired companies;

•

risks of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations,
language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies;

•

the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired
companies; and

•

difficulties in achieving business and financial success.

In
the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected.

We could experience a breach of the confidentiality of the information we hold or of the security of our computer systems.

We operate large and complex computer systems that contain significant amounts of customer data. As a routine element of our business,
we collect, analyze and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the preclinical and the clinical studies we conduct for our customers. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry
to such computer systems for the purpose of stealing data or disrupting the systems. We believe that we have taken adequate measures to protect them from intrusion, but in the event that our efforts
are unsuccessful we could suffer significant harm. Our contracts with our customers typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the



information
generated from these studies. In the event the confidentiality of such information was compromised, we could suffer significant harm.

We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees or recruit additional qualified personnel, which would harm our business.

Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James
C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for over 30 years. We have no employment agreement with Mr. Foster or other
members of our management. If Mr. Foster or other members of management do not continue in their present positions, our business may suffer.

Because
of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we
have an excellent record of employee retention, there is still strong competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to
attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific,
technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business.

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by such factors
as:

•

the number and scope of ongoing customer engagements,

•

the commencement, postponement, progress, completion or cancellation of customer contracts in the quarter,

•

changes in the mix of our products and services,

•

the extent of cost overruns,

•

holiday patterns of our customers,

•

budget cycles of our customers,

•

the timing and charges associated with completed acquisitions and other events, and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

We
believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results
could negatively affect the market price of our common stock

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments

There are no unresolved comments to be reported in response to Item 1B.

Item 2.    Properties

We own or lease the land and buildings where we have facilities. We own large facilities (facilities over 50,000 square feet) for our
PCS businesses in the United States, Canada, Scotland and Ireland, and lease large facilities in the United States, Canada and China. We own large RMS facilities in the United Kingdom, France,
Germany, Japan, Canada and the United States. None of our leases are individually material to our business operations and many have an option to renew. We believe that we will be able to successfully
renew expiring leases on terms satisfactory to us. We believe that our facilities are adequate for our operations and that suitable additional space will be available when



needed.
For additional information see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings

We are not a party to any material legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to our business that is not
material to our business or financial condition.

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant

(pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of  Regulation S-K).

Below are the names, ages and principal occupations of each our current executive officers. All such persons have been elected to serve
until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal.

Thomas F. Ackerman,

age 54, joined us in 1988 with over eleven years of combined public accounting and international finance experience. He was named
Controller, North America in 1992 and became our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1996. In 1999, he was named a Senior Vice President and in 2005 he was named a Corporate Executive Vice
President. He is currently responsible for overseeing our Accounting and Finance Department and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining us, Mr. Ackerman was an accountant at
Arthur Andersen & Co.

Christophe Berthoux,

age 46, rejoined us in February 2005 as General Manager of our clinical services business. Following the sale of our
Phase II-IV clinical services business in August 2006, Dr. Berthoux was named Corporate Senior Vice President, U.S. Research Models and Services and In Vitro Products and
Services, and in 2008 he was named our Corporate Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing and Chief Commercial Officer. Previously, from 1990 to early 2004, Dr. Berthoux held a
variety of managerial positions with the Company, including Corporate Vice President and head of European Research Models and Services.

James C. Foster,

age 58, joined us in 1976 as General Counsel. Over the past 30 years, Mr. Foster has held various staff and managerial
positions, and was named our President in 1991, Chief Executive Officer in 1992 and our Chairman in 2000.

Nancy A. Gillett,

age 53, joined us in 1999 with the acquisition of Sierra Biomedical. Dr. Gillett has 22 years of experience as an
ACVP board certified pathologist and scientific manager. In 1999, she became Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Sierra Biomedical division, and subsequently held a variety of managerial
positions, including President and General Manager of Sierra Biomedical and Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Drug Discovery and Development (the predecessor to our Preclinical Services
business segment). In 2004, Dr. Gillett was named Corporate Senior Vice President and President, Global Preclinical Services, and in 2006 she became a Corporate Executive Vice President.

David P. Johst,

age 47, joined us in 1991 as Corporate Counsel and was named Vice President, Human Resources in 1995. He became Vice President, Human
Resources and Administration in 1996, a Senior Vice President in 1999, and a Corporate Executive Vice President in 2005. He currently serves as the Company's Chief Administrative Officer and is
responsible for overseeing our Human Resources department, our Consulting and Staffing Services business unit and several other corporate staff departments. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Johst was an attorney in the Corporate Department at Hale and Dorr.



Real H. Renaud,

age 62, joined us in 1964 and has over 40 years of research models production and related management experience. In 1986,
Mr. Renaud became Vice President of Production, with responsibility for overseeing the Company's North American small animal operations, and was named Vice President, Worldwide Production in
1990. Mr. Renaud became Vice President and General Manager, European and North American Animal Operations in 1996, following a two-year European assignment during which he provided
direct oversight to our European operations. In 1999, he became a Senior Vice President and in 2003, Mr. Renaud became Corporate Executive Vice President and President Global Research Models
and Services.

PART II

Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on June 23, 2000 under the symbol "CRL." The following table sets
forth for the periods indicated below the high and low sales prices for our common stock.


High

Low

First quarter (through February 13, 2009)

$

29.87

$

23.14


High

Low

First quarter

$

69.04

$

53.73

Second quarter

65.95

55.14

Third quarter

69.19

57.84

Fourth quarter

58.00

19.92


High

Low

First quarter

$

47.64

$

42.71

Second quarter

54.04

45.30

Third quarter

56.64

50.15

Fourth quarter

68.00

55.11

There
were no equity securities that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, sold by the Company during the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008.

Shareholders

As of February 13, 2009 there were approximately 572 registered shareholders of the outstanding shares of common stock.

Dividends

We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the past two years and we do not intend to pay cash
dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any earnings to finance future operations and expansion. Some of
the restrictive covenants contained in our revolving credit agreement and term loan agreements limit our ability to pay dividends.



Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table provides information relating to the Company's purchases of shares of its common stock during the quarter ended
December 27, 2008.

Total Number

of Shares

Purchased

Average Price

Paid per Share

Total Number of

Shares Purchased

as Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

Approximate

Dollar Value of

Shares that May

Yet be Purchased

Under the Plans

or Programs

Sep. 28, 2008—Oct. 25, 2008

209,825

$

46.91

209,308

$

202,065,830

Oct. 26, 2008—Nov. 22, 2008

220,671

$

28.49

220,000

$

195,803,701

Nov. 23, 2008—Dec. 27, 2008

370,000

$

23.42

370,000

$

187,139,993

Total

800,496

799,308

The
Board of Directors of the Company has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently amended on October 26, 2005,
May 9, 2006, August 1, 2007 and July 24, 2008 to acquire up to a total of $600.0 million of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date.

During
the quarter ended December 27, 2008, the Company repurchased 799,308 shares of common stock for approximately $24.7 million. The timing and amount of any future
repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate considerations. Additionally, the Company's Incentive Plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards in
order to satisfy individual tax withholding requirements. Accordingly, during the quarter ended December 27, 2008, the Company acquired 1,188 shares as a result of such withholdings.

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans

The following table summarizes, as of December 27, 2008, the number of options issued under the Company's stock option plans and
the number of options available for future issuance under these plans.

Plan Category

Number of

securities to be

issued upon

exercise of

outstanding

options, warrants

and rights

Weighted-average

exercise price of

outstanding

options, warrants

and rights

Number of securities

remaining available for

future issuance under

equity compensation

plans (excluding

securities reflected in

column (a))

(a)

(b)

(c)

Equity compensation plan approved by security holders:

Charles River 2000 Incentive Plan

3,459,396

$

41.28

174,618

Charles River 1999 Management Incentive Plan

30,754

$

14.52

15,617

Inveresk 2002 Stock Option Plan

136,305

$

28.00

—

2007 Incentive Plan

915,765

(1)

$

58.25

4,399,402

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

4,542,220

(2)

$

43.93

4,589,637

(3)

(1)

Includes
shares payable under our performance awards granted in fiscal year 2008 under our 2007 Incentive Plan, utilizing 100% target award level of 61,100
shares; actual awards to be determined in February 2009 may differ from this number. The weighted-average exercise prices in column (b) do not take these performance awards into account.



(2)

None
of the options outstanding under any equity compensation plan of the Company include rights to any dividend equivalents (i.e., a right to
receive from the Company a payment commensurate to dividend payments received by holders of common stock or other equity instruments of the Company).

(3)

On
March 22, 2007, the Board of Directors determined that, upon approval of the 2007 Incentive Plan, no future awards would be granted under the
preexisting equity compensation plans, including the Charles River 1999 Management Incentive Plan and the Charles River 2000 Incentive Plan. Shareholder approval was obtained on May 8, 2007.
Previously, on February 28, 2005, the Board of Directors terminated the Inveresk 2002 Stock Option Plan to the extent that no further awards would be granted thereunder.

The
following table provides additional information regarding the aggregate issuances under the Company's existing equity compensation plans as of December 27, 2008:

Category

Number of securities

outstanding

Weighted average

exercise price

Weighted

average term

(a)

(b)

(c)

Total number of restricted shares outstanding(1)

716,394

$

—

—

Total number of options outstanding(2)

4,542,220

$

43.93

5.02

(1)

For
purposes of this table, only unvested restricted stock as of December 27, 2008 is included. Also for purposes of this table only, the total
includes 46,465 restricted stock units granted to certain employees of the Company outside of the United States.

(2)

Includes
shares payable under our performance awards granted in fiscal year 2008 under our 2007 Incentive Plan, utilizing target award level of 61,100
shares; actual awards determined in February 2009 differ from this number. The weighted-average exercise prices in column (b) do not take these performance awards into account.



Comparision of 5-Year Cumulative Total Return

Among
Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., The S&P 500 Index and The NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index.

The
following stock performance graph compares the annual percentage change in the Company's cumulative total shareholder return on its Common Stock during a period commencing on
December 27, 2003 and ending on December 27, 2008 (as measured by dividing (1) the sum of (A) the cumulative amount of dividends for the measurement period, assuming
dividend reinvestment, and (B) the difference between the Company's share price at the end and the beginning of the measurement period; by (2) the share price at the beginning of the
measurement period) with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Pharmaceutical Index during such period. The Company has not paid any dividends on the Common Stock, and
no dividends are included in the representation of the Company's performance. The stock price performance on the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. The graph is not
"soliciting material," is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by reference in any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933 or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. Information used in the graph was obtained from
Standards & Poor's Institutional Market Services, a source believed to be reliable, but the Company is not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information.

Dec. 27,


Dec. 25,


Dec. 31,


Dec. 30,


Dec. 29,


Dec. 27,


Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.

100.00

138.50

126.06

128.68

196.73

74.44

S&P 500

100.00

110.88

116.33

134.70

142.10

89.53

NASDAQ Pharmaceutical

100.00

110.22

111.87

114.89

106.37

97.32



Item 6.    Selected Consolidated Financial Data

The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained in Item 8., "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report.

Fiscal Year(1)






(dollars in thousands)

Statement of Income Data:

Net sales

$

1,343,493

$

1,230,626

$

1,058,385

$

993,328

$

724,221

Cost of products sold and services provided

832,784

752,435

651,778

603,624

435,499

Selling, general and administrative expenses

230,159

217,491

180,795

157,999

116,879

Goodwill impairment

700,000

—

—

—

—

Amortization of goodwill and intangibles

30,312

33,509

37,639

47,011

13,857

Operating income (loss)

(449,762

)

227,191

188,173

184,694

157,986

Interest income

8,691

9,683

6,836

3,695

3,262

Interest expense

(14,009

)

(18,004

)

(19,426

)

(24,324

)

(11,718

)

Other, net

(5,930

)

(1,448

)


(177

)


Income (loss) before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

(461,010

)

217,422

176,564

163,888

150,467

Provision for income taxes

61,944

59,400

49,738

16,261

60,159

Income (loss) before minority interests and earnings from equity investments

(522,954

)

158,022

126,826

147,627

90,308

Minority interests


(470

)

(1,605

)

(1,838

)

(1,577

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(522,267

)

157,552

125,221

145,789

88,731

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax


(3,146

)

(181,004

)

(3,790

)

1,061

Net income (loss)

$

(521,843

)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

$

141,999

$

89,792

Common Share Data:

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.35

$

1.82

$

2.09

$

1.79

Discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

Net income (loss)

$

(7.76

)

$

2.31

$

(0.81

)

$

2.04

$

1.81

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.29

$

1.79

$

2.02

$

1.65

Discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

$

(0.05

)

$

0.02

Net income (loss)

$

(7.76

)

$

2.25

$

(0.80

)

$

1.96

$

1.68

Other Data:

Depreciation and amortization

$

91,183

$

86,379

$

82,586

$

87,935

$

42,063

Capital expenditures

197,081

227,036

181,747

94,520

44,735

Balance Sheet Data (at end of period):

Cash and cash equivalents

$

243,592

$

225,449

$

175,380

$

114,821

$

207,566

Working capital

317,141

305,336

241,762

107,910

161,191

Goodwill, net

457,578

1,120,540

1,119,309

1,097,590

1,102,511

Total assets

2,159,918

2,805,537

2,557,544

2,538,209

2,626,835

Total debt

576,098

510,049

572,054

296,090

686,844

Total shareholders' equity

1,199,025

1,860,467

1,595,211

1,827,013

1,472,505

(1)

Our
fiscal year consists of 12 months ending on the last Saturday on, or prior to, December 31.



Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview

Continuing Operations

We are a leading global provider of solutions that advance the drug discovery and development process, including research models and
associated services and outsourced preclinical services. We provide our products and services to global pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, as well as government agencies, and leading
hospitals and academic institutions throughout the world in order to bring drugs to market faster and more efficiently. Our broad portfolio of products and services enables our customers to reduce
costs, increase speed to market and enhance their productivity and effectiveness in drug discovery and development. We have built upon our core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science
(research model technologies) to develop a diverse and growing portfolio of regulatory compliant preclinical services which address drug discovery and development in the preclinical arena. We have
been in business for over 60 years and currently operate approximately 70 facilities in 17 countries worldwide.

Our
sales growth in 2008 was driven by continued spending by major pharmaceuticals, biotechnology companies and academic institutions on our global products and services, which aid in
their development of new drugs and products, partially offset by the impact of the slower economy and world wide credit crisis. We expect the long-term drivers for our business as a whole
primarily to emerge from our customers' continued demand for research models and services and regulatory compliant preclinical services, as well as increased strategic focus on outsourcing. During the
second half of 2008, demand for our services decelerated at a greater rate than products impacting our growth rate. We believe this was primarily due to emerging factors which include: business
restructuring and reprioritization of pipelines by pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients, which led to significant and accelerating study slippage and delays; lack of funding for biotechnology
companies; and tight cost controls which resulted in more measured spending and some pricing pressure.

Our
2009 expectations reflect softer market demand, particularly for preclinical services which will continue at least until mid-year. We believe that our clients will
continue to outsource drug development services as they strive to improve the efficiency of their drug pipelines. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe are influencing outsourcing
demand from our customers, please see the section entitled "Our Strategy" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

We
are using this period of market uncertainty to streamline our operations, and have implemented additional actions to improve our operating efficiency. These actions include initiating
a hiring freeze, a salary freeze for a substantial percentage of our workforce, including all incentive-eligible employees, continued tight control of discretionary spending and implementing a
headcount reduction affecting 3% of our total workforce (predominately in our PCS business segment) and the closure of our Arkansas facility. As a result of these cost-saving actions, the
Company will take a one-time charge in 2009 of approximately $9.0 million. The Company expects that these actions will reduce costs by approximately $20.0 million in 2009,
with an annual run-rate of approximately $25.0 million. We also are pursuing strategic alternatives for our clinical Phase I operation in Scotland, with an intention to
divest these operations.

Our
capital expenditures totaled $197.1 million in 2008 and our planned capital expenditures in 2009 are in the range of $100 million to $120 million. As a result of
the factors which are affecting our sales growth, we evaluated our expansion plans and determined that we have sufficient capacity to accommodate our clients' current demand. We expect to open the
Sherbrooke (Canada) facility in the first half of 2009, in order to relieve capacity constraints at our Montreal facility. We have delayed the expansion of our Ohio facility until 2010, when we
believe the industry will be better positioned to absorb additional capacity.

In
addition to internally generated organic growth, our business strategy includes strategic "bolt-on" acquisitions that complement our business, increase the rate of our
growth or geographically



expand
our existing services, as evidenced by our acquisitions of NewLab BioQuality AG and MIR Preclinical Services in 2008.

Our
annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our initial assessment (step one) for 2008, the fair value of
our business units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth quarter and our business performance and outlook were not
as strong as anticipated, coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to trigger another goodwill impairment test as of
December 27, 2008. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value our PCS business was less than its carrying value. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involved us
calculating the implied goodwill for the PCS business. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill, resulting in a goodwill impairment
of $700 million.

Total
net sales in 2008 were $1.3 billion, an increase of 9.2% over 2007 with demand decelerating during the second half of the year. The sales increase was due primarily to
increased customer demand and higher pricing in Research Models and Services (RMS), strong large model safety testing and certain specialty toxicology sales partially offset by slower demand for PCS
due to our clients' restructuring and reprioritization efforts, particularly in Europe. The effect of foreign currency translation added 1.3% to sales growth. Our gross margin decreased to 38.0% of
net sales compared to 38.9% of net sales in 2007, due primarily to lower sales growth.

Our
operating loss for 2008 was $449.8 million compared to income of $227.2 million for 2007 primarily due to the goodwill impairment of $700 million in 2008.

Net
loss from continuing operations was $522.3 million in 2008 compared to income of $157.6 million in 2007. Diluted loss per share from continuing operations for 2008 was
$7.76 compared to earnings per share of $2.29 in 2007.

We
report two segments: RMS and PCS, which reflect the manner in which our operating units are managed.

Our
RMS segment, which represented 49.1% of net sales in 2008, includes sales of research models, genetically engineered models and services (GEMS), research animal diagnostics,
discovery and imaging services, consulting and staffing services, vaccine support and in vitro technology (primarily endotoxin testing). Although demand decelerated during the second half of the year,
net sales for this segment increased 14.3% compared to 2007 due to increased small model sales in the United States and Europe, increased consulting and staffing services and strong in vitro sales.
Favorable foreign currency translation increased the net sales gain by 3.7%. We experienced decreases in both the RMS gross margin and operating margin compared to last year (to 43.1% from 43.2% and
to 30.1% from 30.7%, respectively) due mainly to the impact of the greater proportion of services in the sales mix and the second-quarter increase in operating expenses in Japan.

Our
PCS segment, which represented 50.9% of net sales in 2008, includes services required to take a drug through the development process including discovery support, toxicology,
pathology, biopharmaceutical, bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism services, as well as Phase I clinical trials. Sales for this segment increased 4.6% over 2007, however, demand
decelerated during the second half of the year. Sales were driven by continuing demand for large model safety testing and certain specialty toxicology studies as well as the acquisition of NewLab
BioQuality AG, partially offset by more measured pharmaceutical spending due to our clients' restructuring and reprioritization efforts, particularly in Europe. Unfavorable foreign currency decreased
sales growth by 0.9%. We experienced a decrease in the PCS gross margin during 2008 to 33.1% from 35.0% in 2007, due mainly to the lower sales growth and additional costs associated with the
transition to the new preclinical facility in Nevada and start-up costs in China. As a result of the goodwill impairment, the 2008 operating margin was a negative 87.3% compared to 15.8%
in 2007.



Net Income

Net loss for 2008 was $521.8 million compared to income of $154.4 million in 2007.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of these financial statements requires management to use judgment when making assumptions that are involved in
preparing estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and assumptions.
Some of those estimates can be complex and require management to make estimates about the future and actual results could differ from those estimates. Management bases its estimates and assumptions on
historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. For any given estimate or assumption made by management, there may also be other estimates or assumptions that are reasonable.

Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses the consolidated financial statements of Charles River Laboratories
International, Inc. which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes the following critical accounting policies are
most affected by significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The following summary should be read in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We believe the following critical accounting policies and estimates reflect our more significant
judgments and estimates than usual in the preparation of our consolidated financial statement:

•

Goodwill and other intangible assets;

•

Revenue recognition;

•

Pension plan accounting;

•

Stock-based compensation; and

•

Income taxes and deferred tax assets.

Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets

We have intangible assets, including goodwill and other identifiable and indefinite-lived
acquired intangibles on
our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of
acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, input from accredited valuation consultants, reviews of projected future income cash
flows and statutory regulations. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions might have increased or decreased the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that could
potentially result in a different impact to our results of operations.

We
perform an annual impairment analysis of goodwill to determine if impairment exists. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to
identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using a weighted combination of a
market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based
approach, we utilize information about our Company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units.
Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the
overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Determining



the
fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages, discount rates,
perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities
and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not
considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of
impairment.

The
second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which step one indicated impairment. The
implied fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in
step one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value
of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets we utilize appraisals
for the fair value of property and equipment and valuations of certain intangible assets, including customer relationships.

Our
annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our initial assessment (step one) for 2008, the fair value of
our business units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth quarter and our business performance and outlook was not as
strong as anticipated coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to trigger another goodwill impairment test as of
December 27, 2008. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value our PCS business was less than its carrying value. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involved us
calculating the implied goodwill for the PCS business. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the implied fair value of goodwill resulting in a goodwill impairment of
$700 million.

Goodwill
will not be amortized, but will be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The results of this year's impairment test are as of a point in time. If the future growth and
operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in calculating the fair value in subsequent years.
To the extent goodwill is impaired, its carrying value will be written down to its implied fair value and a charge will be made to our earnings. Such an impairment charge could materially and
adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As of December 27, 2008, we had recorded goodwill and other intangibles of $593.7 million in the consolidated balance
sheet.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue on product and services sales. We record product revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Recognition of service revenue is primarily based on the completion of
agreed-upon service procedures including rate specified contracts and fixed fee contracts. Revenue of agreed-upon rate contracts is recognized as services are performed, based
on rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts is recognized as services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete procedures specified by the customers in the form
of study protocols. Our fixed fee service contracts, which are utilized mainly in our Preclinical segment, vary in term from a few days to greater than a year, with the majority of such contracts
having a term of less than six months. Management reviews the costs incurred and services provided to date on these contracts in relation to the total estimated effort to complete the contract. As a
result of the reviews, revisions in estimated effort to complete the contract are reflected in the period in which the change became known. These judgments and estimates are not expected to result in
a change that would materially affect our reported results. In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These advances are recorded as deferred revenue and
recognized as revenue as services are performed. Conversely, in some cases, revenue is recorded based on the level of service



performed
in advance of billing the customer with the offset to unbilled receivable. As of December 27, 2008, we had recorded unbilled revenue of $51.8 million and deferred revenue of
$86.7 million in our consolidated balance sheet based on the difference between the estimated level of services performed and the billing arrangements defined by our service contracts.

Pension Plan Accounting

As of December 27, 2008, we had a pension liability of $32.2 million. The actuarial
computations require the
use of assumptions to estimate the total benefits ultimately payable to employees and allocate this cost to the service periods. The key assumptions include the discount rate, the expected return on
plan assets and expected future rate of salary increases. In addition, our actuaries determine the expense or liability of the plan using other assumptions for future experiences such as withdrawal
and mortality rate. The key assumptions used to calculate pension costs are determined and reviewed annually by management after consulting with outside investment advisors and actuaries. The assumed
discount rate, which is intended to be the actual rate at which benefits could effectively be settled, is adjusted based on the change in the long-term bond yield as of the measurement
date. As of December 27, 2008, the weighted-average discount rate for our pension plans was 5.74%.

The
assumed expected return on plan assets is the average return expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide future benefits to pension plan participants. This includes
considering the assets allocation and expected returns likely to be earned over the life of the plan. If the actual return is different from the assumed expected return in plan assets, the difference
would be amortized over a period of approximately 15 to 20 years. The estimated effect of a 1.0% change in the expected rate of return would increase or decrease pension expense by
$1.3 million.

During
2008, our Board of Directors voted to freeze the accrual of benefits under our U.S. pension plan effective April 30, 2008. In accordance with SFAS No. 88,
"Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," we recorded a curtailment gain of $3.3 million in 2008.

Stock-based Compensation

We recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors
including employee
stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and is
recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period which is generally the vesting period. During the year ended December 27, 2008, we recognized
$24.3 million of stock compensation expense associated with stock options, restricted stock and performance based stock awards.

We
estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the fair value of our restricted stock awards and restricted stock units based on the quoted
market price of our common stock. We recognize the associated compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting periods of the awards, net of estimated forfeitures. Forfeiture
rates are estimated based on historical pre-vesting forfeitures and are updated on vesting date to reflect actual forfeitures.

Estimating
the fair value for stock options requires judgment, including estimating stock-price volatility, expected term, expected dividends and risk-free interest rates.
The expected volatility rates are estimated based on historical volatilities of our common stock over a period of time that
approximates the expected term of the options. The expected term represents the average time that options are expected to be outstanding and is estimated based on the historical exercise and
post-vesting cancellation patterns of our stock options. Expected dividends are estimated based on our dividend history as well as our current projections. The risk-free
interest rate is based on the market yield of U.S. Treasury securities for periods approximating the expected terms of the options in effect at the time of grant. These assumptions are updated on at
least an annual basis or when there is a significant change in circumstances that could affect these assumptions.



The
fair value of option based stock awards granted during 2008 was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

December 27, 2008

Expected life (in years)

4.5

Expected volatility

24.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

2.76

%

Expected dividend yield

0.0

%

Weighted-average option grant date fair value

$

14.85

Income Taxes

As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income
taxes in each of the
jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax expense and assessing temporary and permanent differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and
accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. We must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets
will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. In the event that actual results differ from these
estimates, or we adjust these estimates in future periods, we may need to establish an additional valuation allowance which could impact our financial position or results of operations.

As
of December 27, 2008, earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $192.9 million. No provision for U.S. income taxes
has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. Federal and state taxes and withholding taxes payable to the
various foreign countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

We
are a worldwide business and operate in various tax jurisdictions where tax laws and tax rates are subject to change given the political and economic climate in these countries. We
report and pay income taxes based upon operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision is based upon enacted tax rates in effect to determine both the current and deferred tax position. Any
significant fluctuation in tax rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimate of taxes to change resulting in either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.

Effective
December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109," which clarifies the accounting for income tax positions by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on the derecognition of previously recognized income tax items, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
financial statement disclosure. Under FIN 48, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the tax position. The tax benefits recognized in our financial statements from such positions are measured on the largest
benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.

Due
to our size and the number of tax jurisdictions within which we conduct our global business operations, we are subject to income tax audits on a regular basis. As a result, we have
tax reserves which are attributable to potential tax obligations around the world. We believe we have sufficiently provided for all audit exposures and assessments. Settlements of these audits or the
expiration of the statute of limitations on the assessment of income taxes for any tax year may result in an increase or decrease to our effective tax rate.



Segment Operations

The following tables show the net sales and the percentage contribution of each of our reportable segments for the past three years.
They also show cost of products sold and services provided, selling, general and administrative expenses, amortization of goodwill and intangibles and operating income by segment and as percentages of
their respective segment net sales.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


(dollars in millions)

Net sales:

Research models and services

$

659.9

$

577.2

$

515.0

Preclinical services

683.6

653.4

543.4

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

$

375.3

$

327.9

$

300.9

Preclinical services

457.5

424.5

350.9

Goodwill impairment

Research models and services

$

—

$

—

$

—

Preclinical services

700.0

—

—

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

$

83.3

$

70.3

$

65.9

Preclinical services

94.8

93.7

73.0

Unallocated corporate overhead

52.1

53.5

41.9

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

$

2.6

$

1.9

$

0.4

Preclinical services

27.7

31.6

37.2

Operating income (loss):

Research models and services

$

198.7

$

177.1

$

147.8

Preclinical services

(596.4

)

103.6

82.3

Unallocated corporate overhead

(52.1

)

(53.5

)

(41.9

)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales:

Research models and services

49.1

%

46.9

%

48.7

%

Preclinical services

50.9

%

53.1

%

51.3

%

Cost of products sold and services provided:

Research models and services

56.9

%

56.8

%

58.4

%

Preclinical services

66.9

%

65.0

%

64.6

%

Goodwill impairment

Research models and services

—

—

—

Preclinical services

102.4

%

—

—

Selling, general and administrative expenses:

Research models and services

12.6

%

12.2

%

12.8

%

Preclinical services

13.9

%

14.3

%

13.4

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

—

—

—

Amortization of other intangibles:

Research models and services

0.4

%

0.3

%

0.1

%

Preclinical services

4.1

%

4.8

%

6.8

%

Operating income:

Research models and services

30.1

%

30.7

%

28.7

%

Preclinical services

(87.3

)%

15.9

%

15.2

%

Unallocated corporate overhead

(3.9

)%

(4.3

)%

(4.0

)%



In
our consolidated statements of income, we provide a breakdown of net sales and cost of sales between net products and services. Such information is reported
irrespective of the business segment from which the sales were generated.

Results of Operations

The following table summarizes historical results of operations as a percentage of net sales for the periods shown:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales

100.0

%

100.0

%

100.0

%

Cost of products sold and services provided

62.0

%

61.1

%

61.6

%

Selling, general and administrative expenses

17.1

%

17.7

%

17.0

%

Goodwill impairment

52.1

%

—

—

Amortization of other intangibles

2.3

%

2.7

%

3.6

%

Operating income (loss)

(33.5

)%

18.5

%

17.8

%

Interest income

0.6

%

0.8

%

0.6

%

Interest expense

1.0

%

1.5

%

1.8

%

Provision for income taxes

4.6

%

4.8

%

4.7

%

Minority interests

0.1

%

—

%

0.2

%

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(38.9

)%

12.8

%

11.8

%

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2008 were $1,343.5 million, an increase of $112.9 million, or 9.2%, from $1,230.6 million
in 2007.

Research Models and Services.

In 2008, net sales for our RMS segment were $659.9 million, an increase of $82.7 million, or
14.3%, from
$577.2 million in 2007, due to increased small model sales in the United States and Europe, increased consulting and staffing services and strong in vitro sales. Favorable foreign currency
translation increased sales growth by approximately 3.7%. RMS sales increased due to pricing and unit volume increases in both models, including large models, and services. The RMS sales growth was
driven by increases in basic research and biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our products and services.

Preclinical Services.

In 2008, net sales for our PCS segment were $683.6 million, an increase of $30.2 million, or 4.6%,
compared to
$653.4 million in 2007. Sales were driven by continuing demand for large model safety testing and certain specialty toxicology studies as well as the acquisition of NewLab BioQuality AG,
partially offset by more measured pharmaceutical spending due to our clients' restructuring and reprioritization efforts, particularly in Europe. Unfavorable foreign currency had a negative impact on
sales growth by 0.9%.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2008 was $832.8 million, an
increase of
$80.4 million, or 10.7%, from $752.4 million in 2007. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2008 was 62.0% of net sales, compared to 61.1% in 2007.

Research Models and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2008 was $375.3 million, an increase of
$47.5 million, or 14.5%, compared to $327.8 million in 2007. Cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of net sales in 2008 was 56.9% compared to 56.8% in 2007. The
greater facility utilization was the result of the increased sales during the quarter, partially offset by an unfavorable product mix due to greater growth in the lower margin service area.

Preclinical Services.

Cost of services provided for the PCS segment in 2008 was $457.5 million, an increase of $32.9 million,
or 7.8%,
compared to $424.6 million in 2007. Cost of services provided as a



percentage
of net sales was 66.9% in 2008, compared to 65.0% in 2007. The increase in cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the impact of lower sales growth and
the start-up and transition costs of PCS Nevada facilities.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 were $230.2 million, an
increase of
$12.7 million, or 5.8%, from $217.5 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 were 17.1% of net sales compared to 17.7% of net sales in 2007.

Research Models and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2008 were $83.3 million, an increase of
$13.0 million, or 18.5%, compared to $70.3 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of sales to 12.6% in 2008 from 12.2% in 2007 due mainly
to higher operating costs.

Preclinical Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the PCS segment in 2008 were $94.8 million, an increase of
$1.1 million, or 1.2%, compared to $93.7 million in 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2008 decreased to 13.9% of net sales compared to 14.3% in 2007.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various costs primarily related to activities
centered at our
corporate headquarters, such as compensation (including stock-based compensation), information systems, compliance and facilities expenses associated with our
corporate, administration and professional services functions was $52.1 million in 2008, compared to $53.5 million in 2007. The decrease in unallocated corporate overhead in 2008 was
primarily due to the gain associated with the curtailment of the U.S. pension plan and slower growth in health care costs.

Amortization of Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles in 2008 was $30.3 million, a decrease of
$3.2 million, from
$33.5 million in 2007.

Research Models and Services.

In 2008, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was $2.6 million, an increase of
$0.7 million from $1.9 million in 2007.

Preclinical Services.

In 2008, amortization of other intangibles for our PCS segment was $27.7 million, a decrease of
$3.9 million from
$31.6 million in 2007.

Goodwill Impairment.

Our annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth
quarter. Based on our
initial assessment (step one) for 2008, the fair value of our business units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth
quarter and our business performance and outlook was not as strong as anticipated coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to
trigger another goodwill impairment test as of December 27, 2008. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value our PCS business was less than its carrying value. The second
step of the goodwill impairment test involved us calculating the implied goodwill for the PCS business. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the implied fair value
of goodwill resulting in a goodwill impairment of $700 million.

Operating Income.

Operating loss in 2008 was $449.8 million, compared to operating income of $227.2 million in 2007.

Research Models and Services.

In 2008, operating income for our RMS segment was $198.7 million, an increase of $21.5 million,
or 12.2%,
from $177.2 million in 2007. Operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2008 was 30.1%, compared to 30.7% in 2007. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of sales was primarily
due to increased operating expenses offset by improved utilization due to the higher sales volume.

Preclinical Services.

In 2008, operating loss for our PCS segment was $596.4 million, compared to operating income of
$103.5 million in
2007. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to goodwill impairment as well as to the start-up and transition costs for our



PCS
Nevada facilities partially offset by improved operating efficiency as a result of higher sales and lower amortization costs.

Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2008 was $14.0 million, compared to $18.0 million in 2007, due primarily to lower
outstanding
debt and lower interest rates.

Interest Income.

Interest income in 2008 was $8.7 million compared to $9.7 million in 2007.

Income Taxes.

Income tax expense in 2008 was $61.9 million, an increase of $2.5 million compared to $59.4 million
in 2007. Our
effective tax rate in 2008 was (13.4)% which was adversely impacted by the goodwill impairment by (40.5)%. Our 2007 effective tax rate was 27.3%. The change from 2007 to 2008 effective tax rate was
primarily due to the goodwill impairment.

Net Income(Loss).

Net loss in 2008 was $521.8 million compared to net income of $154.4 million in 2007.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006

Net Sales.

Net sales in 2007 were $1,230.6 million, an increase of $172.2 million, or 16.3%, from $1,058.4 million
in 2006.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, net sales from our RMS segment were $577.2 million, an increase of $62.2 million, or
12.1%, from
$515.0 million in 2006. Favorable foreign currency translation increased our net sales gain by 2.9%. RMS sales increased due to pricing and unit volume increases in both models and services.
The RMS sales growth was driven by increases in basic research and biotechnology spending, which drove greater demand for our products and services, partially offset by lower sales growth in research
models in Japan.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, net sales from our Preclinical Services segment were $653.4 million, an increase of
$110.0 million, or
20.2%, compared to $543.4 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to the increased customer demand for toxicology and other specialty preclinical services, reflecting increased customer
outsourcing along with the full year impact of the acquisition of Northwest Kinetics. Favorable foreign currency increased sales growth by 2.9%.

Cost of Products Sold and Services Provided.

Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 was $752.4 million, an
increase of
$100.6 million, or 15.4%, from $651.8 million in 2006. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 was 61.1% of net sales, compared to 61.6% in 2006.

Research Models and Services.

Cost of products sold and services provided for RMS in 2007 was $327.9 million, an increase of
$27.0 million, or 9.0%, compared to $300.9 million in 2006. Cost of products sold and services provided in 2007 decreased to 56.8% of net sales compared to 58.4% of net sales in 2006.
The favorable cost of products sold and services provided as a percentage of sales was due to greater facility utilization as a result of increased sales.

Preclinical Services.

Cost of services provided for the Preclinical Services segment in 2007 was $424.5 million, an increase of
$73.6 million, or 21.0%, compared to $350.9 million in 2006. Cost of services provided as a percentage of net sales was 65.0% in 2007, compared to 64.6% in 2006. The increase in cost of
services provided as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the impact of increased costs related to the transition to our new Massachusetts facility and the foreign exchange impact of the
strengthening Canadian dollar, partially offset by improved performance at certain PCS locations.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 were $217.5 million, an
increase of
$36.7 million, or 20.3%, from $180.8 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 were 17.7% of net sales compared to 17.1% of net sales in 2006. The increase as
a percentage of sales was due primarily to increases in unallocated corporate overhead and charges related to the accelerated exit of our Worcester facility.



Research Models and Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for RMS in 2007 were $70.3 million, an increase of
$4.4 million, or 6.8%, compared to $65.9 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of sales to 12.2% in 2007 from 12.8% in 2006 due mainly
to greater economies of scale.

Preclinical Services.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the Preclinical Services segment in 2007 were $93.7 million,
an
increase of $20.7 million, or 28.3%, compared to $73.0 million in 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2007 increased to 14.3% of net sales, compared to 13.4% of net
sales in 2006 due to charges related to the accelerated exit of our Worcester facility.

Unallocated Corporate Overhead.

Unallocated corporate overhead, which consists of various corporate expenses including those associated
with stock
based compensation, pension and departments such as senior executives, corporate accounting, legal, tax, treasury, global informational technology, human resources and investor relations, was
$53.5 million in 2007, compared to $41.9 million in 2006. The increase in unallocated corporate overhead in 2007 was due to increased equity based compensation, higher information
technology costs and higher bonus accruals.

Amortization of Other Intangibles.

Amortization of other intangibles in 2007 was $33.5 million, a decrease of
$4.1 million, from
$37.6 million in 2006. The decreased amortization was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the acquisition of Inveresk.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, amortization of other intangibles for our RMS segment was $1.9 million, an increase of
$1.5 million from $0.4 million in 2006. The increased amortization was primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining 15% of the equity of Charles River Laboratories
Japan, Inc., from the minority interest partner in the first quarter of 2007.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, amortization of other intangibles for our Preclinical Services segment was $31.6 million, a
decrease of
$5.6 million from $37.2 million in 2006. The decrease in amortization of other intangibles was primarily due to reduced amortization related to the Inveresk acquisition.

Operating Income.

Operating income in 2007 was $227.2 million, an increase of $39.0 million, or 20.7%, from
$188.2 million in
2006. Operating income in 2007 was 18.5% of net sales, compared to 17.8% of net sales in 2006. The increase as a percentage of sales was due primarily to increased operating income margins in RMS
along with lower amortization costs.

Research Models and Services.

In 2007, operating income for our RMS segment was $177.2 million, an increase of $29.4 million,
or 19.9%,
from $147.8 million in 2006. Operating income as a percentage of net sales in 2007 was 30.7%, compared to 28.7% in 2006. The increase in operating income as a percentage of sales was primarily
due to improved capacity utilization resulting from the higher sales volume.

Preclinical Services.

In 2007, operating income for our Preclinical Services segment was $103.5 million, an increase of
$21.2 million,
or 25.8%, from $82.3 million in 2006. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased to 15.8%, compared to 15.2% of net sales in 2006. The increase in operating income as a percentage
of net sales was primarily due to higher sales which resulted in improved operating efficiency and lower amortization costs, partially offset by the start-up and transition costs for our
PCS Massachusetts facilities and the foreign exchange impact of the strengthening Canadian dollar.

Interest Income.

Interest income in 2007 was $9.7 million, compared to $6.8 million in 2006. The $2.9 million
increase was
primarily due to increased funds invested.



Interest Expense.

Interest expense in 2007 was $18.0 million, compared to $19.4 million in 2006. The $1.4 million
decrease was
primarily due to debt repayment.

Income Taxes.

Income tax expense for 2007 was $59.4 million, an increase of $9.7 million compared to
$49.7 million in 2006. Our
effective tax rate for 2007 was 27.3% compared to 28.2% for 2006. The decline in effective tax rate in 2007 was primarily due to benefits recorded in 2007 related to tax law changes in the United
Kingdom and Germany and benefits generated due to mix of earnings.

Income from Continuing Operations.

Income from continuing operations in 2007 was $157.6 million, an increase of
$32.4 million from
$125.2 million in 2006.

Loss from Discontinued Operations.

The loss from discontinued operations in 2007 was $3.1 million. The
loss from discontinued operations for 2006 was $181.0 million which included a goodwill impairment of $129.2 million, the tax expense of $37.8 million related to the sale of the
Phase II-IV Clinical business, as well as results from our ISS business.

Net Income (Loss).

Net income in 2007 was $154.4 million compared to a net loss of $55.8 million in 2006.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following discussion analyzes liquidity and capital resources by operating, investing and financing activities as presented in our
condensed consolidated statements of cash flows.

Our
principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flow from operations, the convertible debt offering, our marketable securities and our revolving line of credit arrangements.

We
had marketable securities of $19.0 million and $63.4 million as of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively. The decline was primarily due to
management's decision to move funds into cash equivalent type investments. As of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, we had $19.0 million and $38.2 million invested in
auction rate securities rated AAA by a major credit rating agency. Our auction rate securities are guaranteed by U.S. federal agencies. These auction rate securities provide liquidity via an auction
process that resets the applicable interest rate at predetermined calendar intervals, usually every 7 or 35 days. The overall credit concerns in the capital markets as well as the failed
auctions of these securities have impacted our ability to liquidate these investments. The auctions for the securities we own continue to fail, the investment may not be readily convertible to cash
until a future auction of these investments is successful. Based on our ability to access our cash and other short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows, and other sources of
cash, we do not anticipate the current lack of liquidity on these investments will affect our ability to operate our business as usual.

In
2006, we issued $350.0 million of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes (the 2013 notes) due in 2013. At December 27, 2008, the fair value of our outstanding 2013 Notes was
approximately $311.1 based on their quoted market value. During the fourth quarter of 2008 no conversion triggers were met.

Concurrently
with the sale of the 2013 Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to our obligation to deliver common stock under the 2013 Notes. The
convertible note hedges give us the right to receive, for no additional consideration, the numbers of shares of common stock that we are obligated to deliver upon conversion of the 2013 Notes (subject
to antidilution adjustments
substantially identical to those in the 2013 Notes), and expire on June 15, 2013. The aggregate cost of these convertible note hedges was $98.3 million.

Separately
and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, we issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of our common stock. The warrants give the holders the
right to receive, for no additional consideration, cash or shares (at our option) with a value equal to the appreciation in the price of our shares above $59.925, and expire between
September 13, 2013 and



January 22,
2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants were $65.4 million.

From
our economic perspective, the cumulative impact of the purchase of the convertible note hedges and the sale of the warrants increases the effective conversion price of the 2013
Notes from $48.94 to $59.925 per share.

We
currently have a $428 million credit agreement and a $50 million credit agreement. At December 27, 2008, we had term loans of $134.9 million and
$90.0 million under our revolving credit facility outstanding. As of December 27, 2008, we had $104.4 million available to borrow under our revolving credit agreements. As of
December 27, 2008, we were compliant with all financial covenants specified in the credit agreements. For additional information regarding the 2013 Notes, the $428 million credit
agreement and the $50 million credit agreement, please see Note 4 included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.

During
the first quarter of 2009, the Company plans to repatriate approximately $90.0 million of the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. As such, the Company has
changed its permanent reinvestment assertion with regards to these unremitted earnings. As a result of the change in assertion, the Company recorded a tax benefit primarily due to foreign tax credits
in the fourth quarter of 2008 of $7.2 million, of which $4.0 million was reflected in the effective tax rate and $3.2 million was reflected in the Cumulative Translation Account.
The proceeds from the repatriation will be used for general corporate purposes. The Company continues to maintain its permanent reinvestment assertion with regards to the remaining unremitted earnings
of its non-U.S. subsidiaries.

Our
Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently amended on October 26, 2005, May 9, 2006,
August 1, 2007 and July 24, 2008 to acquire up to a total of $600.0 million of common stock. The program does not have a fixed expiration date. In order to facilitate these share
repurchases, the Company has entered into Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plans. As of December 27, 2008, approximately $187.1 million remained authorized for share repurchases.

Cash
and cash equivalents totaled $243.6 million at December 27, 2008 compared to $225.4 million at December 29, 2007.

Net
cash provided by operating activities in 2008 and 2007 was $279.5 million and $288.4 million, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operations was primarily
due to a decrease in deferred revenue. Our days sales outstanding (DSO) of 40 days as of December 27, 2008 increased from 35 days at December 29, 2007. Our DSO includes
deferred revenue as an offset to accounts receivable in the calculation.

Net
cash used in investing activities in 2008 and 2007 was $227.2 million and $200.8 million, respectively. Our capital expenditures in 2008 were $197.1 million of
which $60.5 million was related to RMS and $136.6 million to PCS. For 2009 we project capital expenditures to be in the range of $100 to $120 million. We anticipate that future
capital expenditures will be funded by operating activities and existing credit facilities.

Net
cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $17.3 million and $46.4 million in 2007. During 2008, we purchased $115.1 million of treasury stock and repaid debt
of $36.5 million partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options and warrants of $28.5 million and proceeds from debt of $102.0 million. During 2007, we
purchased $41.6 million of treasury stock and repaid $64.5 million of debt, partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $54.0 million.



Minimum
future payments of our contractual obligations at December 27, 2008 are as follows:

Contractual Obligations

Total

Less than

1 Year

1—3 Years

3—5 Years

After

5 Years

Debt

$

575.8

$

35.4

$

190.4

$

350.0

$

—

Interest payments

45.6

12.8

28.8

4.0

—

Operating leases

98.3

21.4

24.8

17.4

34.7

Pension

94.5

9.4

9.7

28.7

46.7

Construction commitments

27.4

27.4

—

—

—

Total contractual cash obligations

$

841.6

$

106.4

$

253.7

$

400.1

$

81.4

The
above table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $28.7 million. Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on
unrecognized tax benefits.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The conversion features of our 2013 Notes are equity-linked derivatives. As such, we recognize these instruments as
off-balance sheet arrangements. The conversion features associated with these notes would be accounted for as derivative instruments, except that they are indexed to our common stock and
classified in stockholders' equity. Therefore, these instruments meet the scope of exception of paragraph 11(a) of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging
Activities," and are accordingly not accounted for as derivatives for purposes of SFAS No. 133.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In June, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based
Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities" (FSP EITF 03-6-1) which clarifies that share-based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable
dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. As participating securities, these instruments should be included in the calculation of basic earnings per share. FSP
EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, as well as interim periods within those years. Once
effective, all prior-period earnings per share data presented must be adjusted retrospectively (including interim financial statements, summaries of earnings, and selected financial data) to conform
with the provisions of the FSP. Early application is not permitted. Upon adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1, we expect to revise prior period earning per share from continuing
operations as follows: decrease 2008 basic and diluted loss per share by $0.08; reduce 2007 basic and diluted earning per share by $0.02 and reduce 2006 basic earning per share by $0.02 and diluted
earning per share from continuing operations by $0.01.

In
May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14-1 "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash
Settlement)" (FSP 14-1). This FSP specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the
entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years and will be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We estimate that upon adoption of the provisions of FSP
14-1, $261,508 of the total proceeds from our debt will be allocated to the liability component, which represents the estimated fair value of similar debt instruments without the
conversion option as of the date of issuance. The remaining $88,492 will be allocated to the equity component. The debt discount of $88,492 will be amortized to interest expense over the seven year
period from June 2006 to June 2013, the expected life of the instrument. Additionally, upon adoption, approximately $1,903 of deferred financing costs capitalized at the time of issuance will be
reclassified to equity as equity issuance costs and will not be amortized to interest expense.



In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161 "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (FAS 161). FAS 161 changes the disclosure requirements
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative
instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. FAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008,
with early application encouraged. This statement is not expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-1 and 157-2 that (1) partially deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain
nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and (2) removed certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157. SFAS 157 as amended by this FSP is effective for
nonfinancial assets and liabilities in fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of SFAS 157 will not have a material impact on our
consolidated financial statements.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3: "Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions" (FSP 140-3).
FSP 140-3 provides guidance on accounting for a transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing. This FSP presumes that an initial transfer for a financial asset and a repurchase
financing are considered part of the same arrangement (linked transaction) under Statement 140. However, if certain criteria are met, the initial transfer and repurchase financing shall not be
evaluated as a linked transaction and shall be evaluated separately under Statement 140. This FSP is not expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141(R)) and No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements"
(SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 introduce significant changes in the accounting for and reporting of business acquisitions and noncontrolling interests in a subsidiary.
SFAS 141(R) continues the movement toward the greater use of fair values in financial reporting and increased transparency through expanded disclosures. SFAS 141(R) changes how business
acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. In addition, SFAS 141(R) will impact the annual goodwill impairment test
associated with acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date. SFAS 141(R) amends SFAS 109 changing the accounting for adjustments to deferred tax asset valuation
allowances and income tax uncertainties related to acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date, generally requiring adjustments to be reflected in income tax expense.
SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply SFAS 141(R)
before that date. The adoption of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will impact our consolidated financial statements.

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk

Certain of our financial instruments are subject to market risks, including interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rates. We
generally do not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.

Interest Rate Risk

The fair value of our marketable securities is subject to interest rate risk and will fall in value if market interest rates increase.
If market rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 100 basis points from levels at December 27, 2008, then the fair value of the portfolio would decline by approximately
$0.2 million.

We
have entered into two credit agreements, the $428 million credit agreement and the $50 million credit agreement. Our primary interest rate exposure results from changes
in LIBOR or the



base
rates which are used to determine the applicable interest rates under our term loans in the $428 million credit agreement and in the $50 million agreement and our revolving credit
facilities. Our potential additional interest expense over one year that would result from a hypothetical, instantaneous and unfavorable change of 100 basis points in the interest rate would be
approximately $3.3 million on a pre-tax basis.

We
issued $350 million of the 2013 Notes in a private placement in the second quarter of 2006. The convertible senior debenture notes bear an interest rate of 2.25%. The fair
market value of the outstanding notes was $311.1 million on December 27, 2008.

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our earnings and cash flows.
This risk is mitigated by the fact that
various foreign operations are principally conducted in their respective local currencies. However, a portion of our foreign operations' revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars, with the costs
accounted for in their local currencies. We attempt to minimize this exposure by using certain financial instruments, for purposes other than trading, in accordance with our overall risk management
and our hedge policy. In accordance with our hedge policy, we designate certain transactions as hedges as set forth in SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities."

During
2008, we utilized foreign exchange contracts, principally to hedge the impact of currency fluctuations on customer transactions and certain balance sheet items. No foreign
exchange contracts were outstanding on December 27, 2008.



Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Consolidated Financial Statements:

Report of Management


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30,


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30,


Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and
December 30, 2006


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Supplementary Data:

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)




Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control—Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment our management concluded that, as of December 27, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria.

The
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 27, 2008 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm, as stated in their report which is included herein.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc:

In
our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc and its subsidiaries at December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 27, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 27, 2008, based on criteria established in

Internal Control—Integrated
Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's
management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements
and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As
discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2006.

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston,
Massachusetts

February 23, 2009



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales related to products

$

471,741

$

415,247

$

374,832

Net sales related to services

871,752

815,379

683,553

Net sales

1,343,493

1,230,626

1,058,385

Costs and expenses

Cost of products sold

252,938

225,088

211,008

Cost of services provided

579,846

527,347

440,770

Selling, general and administrative

230,159

217,491

180,795

Goodwill impairment

700,000

—

—

Amortization of other intangibles

30,312

33,509

37,639

Operating income (loss)

(449,762

)

227,191

188,173

Other income (expense)

Interest income

8,691

9,683

6,836

Interest expense

(14,009

)

(18,004

)

(19,426

)

Other, net

(5,930

)

(1,448

)


Income (loss) before income taxes and minority interests

(461,010

)

217,422

176,564

Provision for income taxes

61,944

59,400

49,738

Income (loss) before minority interests

(522,954

)

158,022

126,826

Minority interests


(470

)

(1,605

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(522,267

)

157,552

125,221

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax


(3,146

)

(181,004

)

Net income (loss)

$

(521,843

)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic:

Continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.35

$

1.82

Discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

Net income (loss)

$

(7.76

)

$

2.31

$

(0.81

)

Diluted:

Continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.29

$

1.79

Discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

Net income (loss)

$

(7.76

)

$

2.25

$

(0.80

)

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

December 27,


December 29,


Assets

Current assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

243,592

$

225,449

Trade receivables, net

210,214

213,908

Inventories

96,882

88,023

Other current assets

67,218

79,477

Current assets of discontinued operations


1,007

Total current assets

618,139

607,864

Property, plant and equipment, net

828,921

748,793

Goodwill, net

457,578

1,120,540

Other intangibles, net

136,100

148,905

Deferred tax asset

62,935

89,255

Other assets

52,058

85,993

Long term assets of discontinued operations

4,187

4,187

Total assets

$

2,159,918

$

2,805,537

Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity

Current liabilities

Current portion of long-term debt and capital leases

$

35,452

$

25,051

Accounts payable

40,517

36,715

Accrued compensation

54,870

53,359

Deferred revenue

86,707

102,021

Accrued liabilities

60,741

61,366

Other current liabilities

22,676

23,268

Current liabilities of discontinued operations



Total current liabilities

300,998

302,528

Long-term debt and capital leases

540,646

484,998

Other long-term liabilities

118,827

154,044

Total liabilities

960,471

941,570

Commitments and contingencies

Minority interests


3,500

Shareholders' equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; 20,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 120,000,000 shares authorized; 76,609,779 issued and 67,052,884 shares outstanding at December 27, 2008 and 75,427,649
issued and 68,135,324 shares outstanding at December 29, 2007



Capital in excess of par value

1,965,150

1,906,997

Retained (deficit) earnings

(344,314

)

177,529

Treasury stock, at cost, 9,556,895 shares and 7,292,325 shares at December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively

(425,924

)

(310,372

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

3,347

85,559

Total shareholders' equity

1,199,025

1,860,467

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity

$

2,159,918

$

2,805,537

See
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(dollars in thousands)

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Cash flows relating to operating activities

Net income (loss)

$

(521,843

)

$

154,406

$

(55,783

)

Less: Income (loss) from discontinued operations


(3,146

)

(181,004

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(522,267

)

157,552

125,221

Adjustments to reconcile net income from continuing operations to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

91,183

86,379

82,586

Goodwill impairment

700,000

—

—

Gain on pension curtailment

(3,276

)

—

—

Non-cash compensation

24,333

26,017

21,090

Deferred income taxes

12,671

(9,786

)

4,035

Other, net

9,019

9,056

1,659

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Trade receivables

(8,532

)

(492

)

(18,961

)

Inventories

(9,670

)

(12,988

)

(6,475

)

Other assets

6,421

(9,057

)

(19,139

)

Accounts payable

8,177

2,076

(2,586

)

Accrued compensation

1,248

9,445

(414

)

Deferred revenue

(15,314

)

8,736

(2,967

)

Accrued liabilities

6,717

3,442

(8,493

)

Other liabilities

(21,245

)

18,045


Net cash provided by operating activities

279,465

288,425

175,973

Cash flows relating to investing activities

Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired

(69,151

)

(11,584

)

(30,862

)

Capital expenditures

(197,081

)

(227,036

)

(181,747

)

Purchases of marketable securities

(6,439

)

(299,408

)

(207,900

)

Proceeds from sale of marketable securities

45,444

334,546

122,981

Other, net


2,668


Net cash used in investing activities

(227,176

)

(200,814

)

(297,398

)

Cash flows relating to financing activities

Proceeds from long-term debt and revolving credit agreement

102,000

—

440,300

Payments on long-term debt, capital lease obligation and revolving credit agreement

(36,540

)

(64,545

)

(170,842

)

Purchase of call options

—

—

(98,110

)

Proceeds from exercises of stock options and warrants

28,490

53,977

22,900

Proceeds from issuance of warrants

—

—

65,423

Excess tax benefit from exercises of employee stock options

3,788

7,150

6,540

Purchase of treasury stock

(115,058

)

(41,617

)

(249,958

)

Other, net

—

(1,392

)

(10,685

)

Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities

(17,320

)

(46,427

)

5,568

Discontinued operations

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities


(4,177

)

(11,603

)

Net cash provided by investing activities

—


189,406

Net cash used in financing activities

—

—

(182

)

Net cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations


(4,147

)

177,621

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents

(17,310

)

13,032

(1,205

)

Net change in cash and cash equivalents

18,143

50,069

60,559

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

225,449

175,380

114,821

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

243,592

$

225,449

$

175,380

Supplemental cash flow information

Cash paid for interest

$

14,186

$

20,110

$

22,992

Cash paid for taxes

$

43,157

$

38,448

$

93,109

Supplemental non-cash investing activities information

Capitalized interest

$

2,486

$

4,716

$

4,107

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

(dollars in thousands)

Total

Accumulated

(Deficit)

Earnings

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Common

Stock

Capital in

Excess

of Par

Treasury

Stock

Unearned

Compensation

Balance at December 31, 2005

$

1,827,013

$

78,906

$

8,540

$


$

1,777,625

$

(17,997

)

$

(20,785

)

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net (loss)

(55,783

)

(55,783

)

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

12,335

—

12,335

—

—

—

—

Minimum pension liability adjustment

(195

)

—

(195

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized gain on marketable securities


—


—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

(43,632

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Adjustment to initially apply SFAS No. 158, net of tax


—


—

—

—

—

Tax benefit associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

5,714

—

—

—

5,714

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock under employee compensation plans

22,821

—

—


22,811

—

—

Acquisition of treasury shares

(249,958

)

—

—

—

(249,958

)

—

Stock-based compensation

21,866

—

—

—

21,866

—

—

Purchase of hedge on convertible debt

(98,110

)

—

—

—

(98,110

)

—

—

Issuance of warrants

65,423

—

—

—

65,423

—

—

Deferred tax assets

43,515

—

—

—

43,515

—

—

Reversal of unearned compensation upon adoption of SFAS No. 123(R)

—

—

—

(20,785

)

—

20,785

Balance at December 30, 2006

$

1,595,211

$

23,123

$

21,171

$


$

1,818,138

$

(267,955

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net income

154,406

154,406

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

57,872

—

57,872

—

—

—

—

Net increase in unrecognized pension net gain/loss and prior service costs

6,564

—

6,564

—

—

—

—

Unrealized loss on marketable securities

(48

)

—

(48

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

218,794

—

—

—

—

—

—

Tax benefit associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

8,727

—

—

—

8,727

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock under employee compensation plans

54,121

—

—


54,101

—

—

Acquisition of treasury shares

(42,417

)

—

—

—

—

(42,417

)

—

Stock-based compensation

26,017

—

—

—

26,017

—

—

Balance at December 29, 2007

$

1,860,467

$

177,529

$

85,559

$


$

1,906,997

$

(310,372

)

$

—

Components of comprehensive income, net of tax:

Net (loss)

(521,843

)

(521,843

)

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(72,588

)

—

(72,588

)

—

—

—

—

Net decrease in unrecognized pension net gain/loss and prior service costs

(7,457

)

—

(7,457

)

—

—

—

—

Unrealized loss on marketable securities

(2,167

)

—

(2,167

)

—

—

—

—

Total comprehensive income

(604,055

)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Tax benefit associated with stock issued under employee compensation plans

4,769

—

—

—

4,769

—

—

Exercise of warrants


—

—

—


—

Deferred taxes


—

—

—


—

—

Issuance of stock under employee compensation plans

27,591

—

—


27,579

—

—

Acquisition of treasury shares

(115,552

)

—

—

—

—

(115,552

)

—

Stock-based compensation

24,333

—

—

—

24,333

—

—

Balance at December 27, 2008

$

1,199,025

$

(344,314

)

$

3,347

$


$

1,965,150

$

(425,924

)

$

—

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. together with its subsidiaries is a leading global provider of solutions that
accelerate the drug discovery and development process including research models and associated services, and outsourced preclinical services. Our fiscal year is the twelve-month period ending the last
Saturday in December.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include all majority-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts, transactions and profits are
eliminated. Results for majority-owned subsidiaries are recorded on a one-month lag basis. There were no material transactions or events for these subsidiaries between the reporting date
and our fiscal year-end date.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year statements to conform to the current year presentation. These reclassifications
have no impact on period reported net income or cash flow.

Use of Estimates

The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and, as such, include amounts
based on informed estimates and judgments of management with consideration given to materiality. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents include time deposits and highly liquid investments with remaining maturities at the purchase date of three months or
less.

Trade Receivables and Concentrations of Credit Risk

We record trade receivables net of an allowance for doubtful accounts. We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts which we believe
is adequate to cover anticipated losses on the collection of all outstanding trade receivable balances. The adequacy of the doubtful account allowance is based on historical information, a review of
major customer accounts receivable balances and management's assessment of current economic conditions. We reassess the allowance for doubtful accounts each quarter. Provisions to the allowance for
doubtful accounts amount to $1,179 in 2008 and $494 in 2007. Write offs to the allowance for doubtful accounts amounted to $288 in 2008 and $421 in 2007.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of net trade receivables is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Customer receivables

$

162,518

$

165,057

Unbilled revenue

51,798

52,033

Total

214,316

217,090

Less allowance for doubtful accounts

(4,102

)

(3,182

)

Net trade receivables

$

210,214

$

213,908

Financial
instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables from customers in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of our net sales.

Marketable Securities

We account for our investment in marketable securities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." Investments in marketable securities are reported at fair value and consist of corporate debt securities and
government securities and obligations which are classified as securities available for sale and mutual funds which are classified as actively traded.

Realized
gains and losses on securities are included in earnings and are determined using the specific identification method. Unrealized holding gains and losses on securities classified
as available for sale, are excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. Unrealized gains and losses on actively traded securities are
included in earnings. The amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion is included in interest
income.

As
of December 27, 2008, we held $18,958 in auction rate securities which are variable rate debt instruments, which bear interest rates that reset approximately every 7 or
35 days. The auction rate securities owned were rated AAA by a major credit rating agency and are either commercially insured or guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP).
The underlying securities have contractual maturities which are generally greater than ten years. The auction rate securities are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value.
Typically, the carrying value of auction rate securities approximates fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. We have classified these investments as long-term
consistent with the term of the underlying security which are structured with short term interest rate reset dates of generally 7 or 35 days but with contractual maturities that are long term.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and fair value for marketable securities by major security type were as follows:

December 27, 2008

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair

Value

Auction rate securities

$

21,175

$

—

$

(2,217

)

$

18,958

$

21,175

$

—

$

(2,217

)

$

18,958

December 29, 2007

Amortized

Cost

Gross

Unrealized

Gains

Gross

Unrealized

Losses

Fair

Value

Auction rate securities

$

38,175

$

—

$

—

$

38,175

Corporate debt securities

13,620


(91

)

13,550

Bank time deposits

4,983

—

—

4,983

Government securities and obligations

4,339

—

(4

)

4,335

Mutual funds

2,372

—

—

2,372

$

63,489

$


$

(95

)

$

63,415

Maturities
of corporate debt securities and government securities and obligations classified as available for sale were as follows:

December 27, 2008

December 29, 2007

Amortized

Cost

Fair

Value

Amortized

Cost

Fair

Value

Due less than one year

$

$

$

14,963

$

14,958

Due after one year through five years

—

—

48,526

48,457

Due after ten years

21,175

18,958

—

—

$

21,175

$

18,958

$

63,489

$

63,415

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, determined principally on the average cost method, or market. The determination of market
value involves assessment of numerous factors, including costs to dispose of inventory and estimated selling price. Inventory costs for small models are based upon the average cost to produce specific
models and strains. Costs for large models are accumulated in inventory by specific model. Inventory costs for both small and large models are charged to cost of sales in the period the models are
sold. Reserves are recorded to reduce the carrying value for inventory determined damaged, obsolete or otherwise unsellable.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of inventories is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Raw materials and supplies

$

14,202

$

13,139

Work in process

12,091

9,794

Finished products

70,589

65,090

Inventories

$

96,882

$

88,023

Other Current Assets

Other current assets consist of assets we intend to settle within the next twelve months.

December 27,


December 29,


Prepaid assets

$

25,354

$

26,087

Deferred tax asset

31,748

25,506

Marketable securities

—

14,958

Prepaid income tax

7,391

7,214

Restricted cash

2,725

3,493

Other

—

2,219

Other current assets

$

67,218

$

79,477

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment, including improvements that significantly add to productive capacity or extend useful life, are recorded
at cost, while maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. We capitalize interest and period costs on certain capital projects which amounted to $2,486 and $6,363 in 2008, $4,716 and $5,484 in
2007 and $4,107 and $2,904 in 2006, respectively. We also capitalize internal and external costs incurred during the application development
stage of internal use software. Depreciation is calculated for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
buildings, 20 to 40 years; machinery and equipment, 3 to 20 years; furniture and fixtures, 5 to 10 years; vehicles, 3 to 5 years; and leasehold improvements, the shorter of
estimated useful life or the lease periods. We begin to depreciate capital projects in the first full month the asset is placed in service.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of net property, plant and equipment is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Land

$

38,696

$

35,934

Buildings

680,405

518,090

Machinery and equipment

337,687

337,215

Leasehold improvements

16,850

17,139

Furniture and fixtures

10,935

7,734

Vehicles

5,514

5,042

Construction in progress

112,326

199,399

Total

1,202,413

1,120,553

Less accumulated depreciation

(373,492

)

(371,760

)

Net property, plant and equipment

$

828,921

$

748,793

Depreciation
expense for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $60,871, $52,870 and $44,947, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

We account for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,"
which establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are
no longer amortized but are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Separate intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives.

Our
annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our initial assessment for 2008, the fair value of our business
units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth quarter and our business performance was not as strong as anticipated
coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to trigger another goodwill impairment test as of December 27, 2008.

The
goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting unit's estimated fair
value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the
most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilize information about our Company as well as publicly available
industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on the estimated future
cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside
investor would expect to earn. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates,
profit margin percentages, discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal strategic review.
Key assumptions, strategies, opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. If the estimated fair



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

value
of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential
impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value of our PCS business was less than its carrying value.

The
second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for the PCS business which step one indicated an impairment. The implied
fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step
one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of
goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets we utilize appraisals for
the fair value of property and equipment and valuations of certain intangible assets, including customer relationships. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the
implied fair value of goodwill resulting in a goodwill impairment of $700,000.

Intangible
assets deemed to have an indefinite life are tested for impairment using a one-step process which compares the fair value to the carrying amount of the asset. We
completed the annual impairment tests in 2008 and 2007 and concluded there was no impairment of identifiable intangible assets with indefinite useful lives.

Other Assets

Other assets consist of assets that we do not intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other assets is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Deferred financing costs

$

6,550

$

8,632

Cash surrender value of life insurance policies

19,652

22,027

Long term marketable securities

18,958

48,457

Other assets

6,898

6,877

Other assets

$

52,058

$

85,993

Accounting for Investment in Life Insurance Contracts

We account for our investment in life insurance contracts in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. FTB 85-4,

Accounting for Life Settlement Contracts by
Third-Party Investors

using the fair value method. Under the fair value method, we recognize the initial
investment at the transaction price and remeasure the investment at fair value each reporting period. Investments in life contracts are reported as part of purchases of marketable securities in the
statement of cash flows. At December 27, 2008, we held 84 contracts with a carrying value of $19,652 and a face value of $134,782.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets," we evaluate
long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss may be recognized when estimated
undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposal are less than its carrying amount. In such instances, additional analysis is performed and the
carrying value of long-lived assets is reduced to the estimated fair value, if this is lower, as determined using an appraisal or discounted cash flows, as appropriate.

Restructuring and Contract Termination Costs

We recognize obligations associated with restructuring activities and contract termination costs in accordance with SFAS
No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS 146 requires a liability at fair value for the costs associated with an exit or disposal activity as
well as costs to terminate a contract or an operating lease. The overall purpose of our restructuring actions is to lower overall operating costs and improve profitability by reducing excess
capacities. Restructuring charges are typically recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in the period in which the plan is approved by our senior management and, where material, our
Board of Directors, and when the liability is incurred. A liability for costs that will continue to be incurred under a contract for its remaining term without economic benefit to the entity is
recognized and measured at its fair value when the entity ceases using the right conveyed by the contract. During 2007, the Company ceased using a leased facility in Worcester, MA and recorded a
charge of $2,793 for the cost to terminate this operating lease.

Other Current Liabilities

Other current liabilities consist of liabilities we intend to settle within the next twelve months.

The
composition of other current liabilities is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Accrued income taxes

$

20,763

$

21,438

Current deferred tax liability

1,269

1,347

Accrued interest and other



Other current liabilities

$

22,676

$

23,268

Other Long-Term Liabilities

Other long-term liabilities consist of liabilities we do not intend to settle within the next twelve months.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
composition of other long-term liabilities is as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Deferred tax liability

$

47,538

$

70,914

Long-term pension liability

32,175

35,729

Accrued Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan and Deferred Compensation Plan

25,954

29,293

Other long-term liabilities

13,160

18,108

Other long-term liabilities

$

118,827

$

154,044

Joint Ventures

We hold investments in joint ventures that are separate legal entities whose purpose is consistent with our overall operations and
represent geographic and business segment expansions of our existing markets. The financial results of all joint ventures were consolidated in our results as we have the ability to exercise control
over these entities. The interests of the outside joint venture partners have been recorded as minority interests totaling $422 and $3,500 at December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007,
respectively.

Stock-Based Compensation Plans

We adopted on a modified prospective basis, the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment (Revised 2004)," (SFAS
No. 123(R)) and related guidance which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee
stock options and restricted stock awards based on estimated fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award and is recognized
as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue related to our products and services in accordance with the SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,
"Revenue Recognition."

We
recognize revenue related to our products, which include research models, in vitro technology and vaccine support products, when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
generally in the form of customer purchase orders, title and risk of loss have transferred, which occurs upon delivery of the products, the sales price is fixed and determinable and collectability is
reasonably assured. These recognition criteria are met at the time the product is delivered to the customer's site. Product sales are recorded net of returns upon delivery. For large models in some
cases customers pay in advance of delivery of the product. These advances are deferred and recognized as revenue upon delivery of the product.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

Our service revenue is comprised of toxicology, pathology, laboratory, clinical Phase I trials, transgenic and contract staffing services and is generally evidenced by customer
contracts. Toxicology services provide highly specialized studies to evaluate the safety and toxicity of new pharmaceutical compounds and materials used in medical devices. Pathology services provide
the ability to identify and characterize pathologic changes within tissues and cells in determining the safety of a new compound. Laboratory services monitor and analyze the health and genetics of
research models used in research protocols. Clinical Phase I conducts tolerability assessments to explore human pharmacology. Transgenic services include validating, maintaining, breeding and
testing research models for biomedical research activities. Contract staffing services provide management of animal care operations on behalf of government, academic, pharmaceutical and biotechnology
organizations.

The
toxicology, pathology and clinical Phase I trials services arrangements typically range from one to six months but can range up to approximately 24 months in length.
These agreements are negotiated for a fixed fee. Laboratory service arrangements are generally completed within a one-month period and are also of a fixed fee nature. Transgenic and
contract staffing services are of a longer-term nature, from six months to five years, and are billed at agreed upon rates as specified in the contract.

Our
service revenue is recognized upon the completion of the agreed upon performance criteria. These performance criteria are generally in the form of either study protocols or specified
activities or procedures which we are engaged to perform. These performance criteria are established by our customers and do not contain acceptance provisions which are based upon the achievement of
certain study or laboratory testing results. Revenue of agreed upon rate contracts is recognized as services are performed, based upon rates specified in the contract. Revenue of fixed fee contracts
is recognized as services are performed in relation to estimated costs to complete procedures specified by customers in the form of study protocols.

Deferred
and unbilled revenue is recognized in our consolidated balance sheets. In some cases, a portion of the contract fee is paid at the time the study is initiated. These advances
are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized as revenue as services are performed. Revenue is recognized on unbilled services and relate to amounts that are currently unbillable to the customer
pursuant to contractual terms. In general, such amounts become billable in accordance with predetermined payment schedules, but are recognized as revenue as services are performed.

Guarantees

We include standard indemnification provisions in customer contracts, which include standard provisions limiting our liability under
such contracts, including our indemnification obligations, with certain exceptions.

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

We follow the requirements of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," which establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts and used for hedging activities. All derivatives, whether designed
for hedging relationships or not, are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, all changes in the fair value of the derivative
and changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

the
changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of operations when the hedged item affects earnings. The ineffective
portions of both fair value and cash flow hedges are immediately recognized as earnings. We recorded a hedge gain (loss) of $(3,977) in 2008, $1,603 in 2007 and $(66) in 2006.

Fair Value

Effective December 30, 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" (SFAS 157) and SFAS No. 159
"The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" (SFAS 159). SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP and enhances
disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined under SFAS 157 as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the
principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. SFAS 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy which
requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard describes three levels of inputs that may be used to
measure fair value which are provided in the table below. SFAS 159 allows an entity the irrevocable option to elect fair value for the initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial
assets and liabilities on a contract-by-contract basis. The adoption of both SFAS 157 and SFAS 159 had no impact on our financial statements other than the
disclosures presented herein.

Level 1

Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2

Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by
observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets include corporate-owned key person life insurance policies.

Level 3

Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose
value is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. This category includes
auction rate securities where independent pricing information was not able to be obtained.

Assets
measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below:

Fair Value Measurements at December 27, 2008 using

Assets

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets

for Identical

Assets

Level 1

Significant Other

Observable

Inputs

Level 2

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

Level 3

Assets at

Fair Value

Auction rate securities

$

—

$

—

$

18,958

$

18,958

Fair value of life policies

—

14,062

—

14,062

Total assets

$

—

$

14,062

$

18,958

$

33,020



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

The
table below presents a reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the quarter ended
December 27, 2008. Our auction rate securities were valued at fair value by management in part utilizing an independent valuation reviewed by management which used pricing models and discounted
cash flow methodologies incorporating assumptions that reflect the assumptions a marketplace participant would use at December 27, 2008.

Fair Value Measurements

Using Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Auction rate securities

Balance, December 30, 2007

$

—

Transfers in and/or (out) of Level 3 upon adoption of SFAS 157

21,175

Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):

Included in earnings

—

Included in other comprehensive income

(2,217

)

Purchases, issuances and settlements

—

Balance, December 27, 2008

$

18,958

Certain
assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. As of December 27, 2008, we have not applied the provisions of SFAS 157 to
these assets and liabilities in accordance with FASB "Staff Position FAS 157-2: Effective Date of SFAS 157" (FSP 157-2). FSP 157-2 partially defers
the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and removes certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157.
SFAS 157 as amended by this FSP is effective for nonfinancial assets and liabilities in the first quarter of 2009 and will be applied prospectively.

Income Taxes

We account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." SFAS No. 109 requires the
recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and tax basis of our assets and liabilities. A
valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items will expire before we are able to realize their benefits or that their future deductibility is
uncertain.

Effective
December 31, 2006, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 109," which clarifies the accounting for income tax positions by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial
statements. FIN 48 also provides guidance on the derecognition of previously recognized income tax items, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and
financial statement disclosure. Under FIN 48, we recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the tax



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

position.
The tax benefits recognized in our financial statements from such positions are measured on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate
resolution.

Foreign Currency Translation

The functional currency of each of our operating foreign subsidiaries is local currency. In accordance with SFAS No. 52,
"Foreign Currency Translation," the financial statements of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars as follows: assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates; income,
expenses and cash flows at average exchange rates; and shareholders' equity at historical exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in the accompanying balance sheet. Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded as other income or expense. We recorded an exchange gain (loss) of
$3,653 in 2008, $(3,959) in 2007 and $170 in 2006.

Comprehensive Income

We account for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." As it relates to us,
comprehensive income is defined as net income plus the sum of the changes in unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities, unrealized gains (losses) on
hedging activities, foreign currency translation adjustments and change in unrecognized pension gains and losses and prior service costs and credits (collectively, other comprehensive income) and is
presented in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, net of tax.

Pension Obligations

We recognize obligations associated with our defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers'
Accounting for Pensions." Assets, liabilities and expenses are calculated by accredited independent actuaries. As required by SFAS No. 87, we are required to make certain assumptions to value
the plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions are reviewed annually, or whenever otherwise required by SFAS No. 87, based on reviews of current plan information and consultations with
independent investment advisors and actuaries. The selection of assumptions requires a high degree of judgment and may materially change from period to period. We do not offer other defined benefits
associated with post-retirement benefit plans other than pensions.

We
adopted the recognition and disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" as of December 30, 2006. This statement requires employers that sponsor defined benefit plans to recognize the funded status of a benefit
plan on its balance sheet; recognize gains, losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period that are not
recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax; measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the date of the
employer's fiscal year-end balance sheet; and disclose in the notes to financial statements additional information about certain effects on net periodic benefit cost for the next fiscal
year that arise from delayed recognition of the gains or losses, prior service costs or credits, and transition asset or obligation.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

During
2008, our Board of Directors voted to freeze the accrual of benefits under our U.S. pension plan effective April 30, 2008. In accordance with SFAS No. 88,
"Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," we recorded a curtailment gain of $3,276 in 2008. Based on a remeasurement of
the U.S. pension plan's assets and liabilities at April 30, 2008, the benefit accrual freeze reduced the projected benefit obligation by $8,298 and resulted in a corresponding adjustment, net
of tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income.

Earnings (Loss) Per Share

Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted
earnings per common share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the
dilutive potential common shares had been issued, to the extent these additional shares are not anti-dilutive.

Discontinued Operations

In accordance with SFAS No. 144, the results of discontinued operations, less applicable income taxes (benefit) and assets and
liabilities, are reported as a separate component in the accompanying statement of income and consolidated balance sheets for the current and prior periods. The statement of cash flows also reflects
separate disclosure of cash flows pertaining to discontinued operations consistently for all periods presented.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1, "Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities" (FSP EITF 03-6-1) which clarifies that share-based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive
nonforfeitable dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities. As participating securities, these instruments should be included in the calculation of basic earnings per share.
FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, as well as interim periods within those years.
Once effective, all prior period earnings per share data presented must be adjusted retrospectively (including interim financial statements, summaries of earnings, and selected financial data) to
conform with the provisions of the FSP. Early application is not permitted. Upon adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1, we expect to revise prior period earning per share from
continuing operations as follows: decrease 2008 basic and diluted loss per share by $0.08; reduce 2007 basic and diluted earning per share by $0.02 and reduce 2006 basic earning per share by $0.02 and
diluted earning per share from continuing operations by $0.01.

In
May 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. APB 14-1 "Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash
Settlement)" (FSP 14-1). This FSP specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that will reflect the
entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years and will be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We estimate that upon adoption of the provisions of FSP
14-1, $261,508 of the total proceeds from our debt will be allocated to the liability component,



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

which
represents the estimated fair value of similar debt instruments without the conversion option as of the date of issuance. The remaining $88,492 will be allocated to the equity component. The
debt discount of $88,492 will be amortized to interest expense over the seven year period from June 2006 to June 2013, the expected life of the instrument. Additionally, upon adoption, approximately
$1,903 of deferred financing costs capitalized at the time of issuance will be reclassified to equity as equity issuance costs and will not be amortized to interest expense.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161 "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (FAS 161). FAS 161 changes the disclosure requirements
for derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative
instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's
financial position, financial performance and cash flows. FAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008,
with early application encouraged. This statement is not expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP 157-1 and 157-2 that (1) partially deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for one year for certain
nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and (2) removed certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS 157. SFAS 157 as amended by this FSP is effective for
nonfinancial assets and liabilities in fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 and will be applied prospectively. The provisions of SFAS 157 are not expected to have a material
impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-3: "Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions" (FSP 140-3).
FSP 140-3 provides guidance on accounting for a transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing. This FSP presumes that an initial transfer for a financial asset and a repurchase
financing are considered part of the same arrangement (linked transaction) under Statement 140. However, if certain criteria are met, the initial transfer and repurchase financing shall not be
evaluated as a linked transaction and shall be evaluated separately under Statement 140. This FSP is not expected to have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations" (SFAS 141(R)) and No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements"
(SFAS 160). SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 introduce significant changes in the accounting for and reporting of business acquisitions and noncontrolling interests, formerly "minority
interest," in a subsidiary. SFAS 141(R) continues the movement toward the greater use of fair values in financial reporting and increased transparency through expanded disclosures.
SFAS 141(R) changes how business acquisitions are accounted for and will impact financial statements at the acquisition date and in subsequent periods. In addition, SFAS 141(R) will
impact the annual goodwill impairment test associated with acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date. SFAS 141(R) amends SFAS 109 changing the accounting for
adjustments to deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties related to acquisitions that close both before and after its effective date, generally requiring adjustments to be
reflected in income tax expense. SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may
not apply SFAS 141(R) before that date. The adoption of SFAS 141(R) and SFAS 160 will impact our consolidated financial statements.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions

We acquired several businesses during the three-year period ended December 27, 2008. The results of operations of the acquired businesses are included in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Significant acquisitions include the following:

On
November 19, 2008 we acquired certain assets of an Indian distributor for $5,469 which are included in our RMS segment. The preliminary purchase price allocation, including
deal costs of $273 incurred by us is as follows:

Current assets (excluding cash)

$


Property, plant and equipment


Deferred taxes

(80

)

Goodwill and other intangible asset

5,459

Total purchase price allocation

$

5,469

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the acquisition was as follows:

Weighted average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

3,770


Non-compete



Goodwill

1,453

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

5,459

Goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions (Continued)

On September 15, 2008 we acquired privately-held Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., the parent entity of Molecular Imaging Research, Inc. (MIR) for $12,041 in
cash. Ann Arbor, Michigan-based MIR provides discovery services utilizing extensive in-vivo imaging capabilities to pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients and is included in our RMS
segment. The preliminary purchase price allocation, including deal costs of $79 incurred by us and net of $368 of cash acquired, is as follows:

Current assets (excluding cash)

$

1,123

Property, plant and equipment


Noncurrent assets


Current liabilities

(1,271

)

Noncurrent liabilities

(564

)

Deferred taxes

(2,055

)

Goodwill and other intangible asset

13,448

Total purchase price allocation

$

11,752

In
conjunction with the purchase, we paid off $364 of acquired debt.

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the MIR acquisition was as follows:

Weighted average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

5,470

6.6

Backlog


0.4

Non-compete


2.1

Goodwill

7,768

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

13,448

Goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes.

In
addition, on September 9, 2008, we acquired all of the capital stock of privately held Dusseldorf, Germany-based NewLab BioQuality AG (NewLab) for $48,500 in cash. NewLab, a
contract service organization, provides safety and quality control services to biopharmaceutical clients and enhances our existing capabilities in process validation services, in consulting services,
and assisting in designing International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH)-compliant stability testing programs and is included in our PCS segment.

The
preliminary purchase price allocation associated with the NewLab acquisition, including transaction costs of $1,602 incurred by us and net of $3,363 of cash acquired, is as follows:

Current assets (excluding cash)

$

5,242

Property, plant and equipment

3,198

Current liabilities

(3,324

)

Deferred taxes

(6,012

)

Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

47,635

Total purchase price allocation

$

46,739



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions (Continued)

In
conjunction with the purchase of NewLab, we utilized $87 of available cash to prepay NewLab's existing debt.

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the NewLab acquisition was as follows:

Weighted average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

17,600

6.2

Backlog


0.7

Non-compete covenants


1.9

Goodwill

29,035

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

47,635

Goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes.

On
June 14, 2007, we entered into a joint venture with Shanghai BioExplorer Co., Ltd., a Shanghai, China-based provider of preclinical services, to form Charles
River Laboratories Preclinical Services—China. We paid $2,400 in cash for a 75% ownership interest in the joint venture. Additionally, as part of the agreement, the joint venture purchased
the net assets of Shanghai BioExplorer for a purchase price of $1,532 including transaction costs of $543. Intangible assets of $935 were recorded by the joint venture based on the preliminary
purchase price allocation.

On
January 4, 2007, we acquired the remaining 15% of the equity (319,199 common shares) of Charles River Laboratories Japan, Inc., ("Charles River Japan") from Ajinomoto
Company Inc., the minority interest partner. As of the effective date of this transaction, we own 100% of Charles River Japan. The
purchase price for the equity was 1.3 billion Yen, or approximately $10,899, which was paid in cash. The purchase price allocation is as follows:

Minority interest acquired

$

5,624

Property, plant and equipment

2,224

Deferred tax liability

(4,187

)

Intangible asset (customer relationships with 15 year estimated amortization life)

$

7,238

$

10,899

On
October 30, 2006, the Company acquired all of the capital stock of privately held Tacoma, Washington based Northwest Kinetics for $29,357 in cash. Northwest Kinetics runs
clinical trials, primarily in Phase I facility, with a focus on high end clinical pharmacology studies.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

2. Business Acquisitions (Continued)

The
final purchase price allocation associated with the Northwest Kinetics acquisition, including transaction costs of $265 incurred by the Company and net of $812 of cash acquired, is
as follows:

Current assets (excluding cash)

$

6,741

Property, plant and equipment

2,983

Non-current assets


Current liabilities

(6,378

)

Non-current liabilities

(7,493

)

Goodwill and other intangibles acquired

32,857

Total purchase price allocation

$

28,810

In
conjunction with the purchase of Northwest Kinetics, the Company utilized $2,076 of available cash to pay off Northwest Kinetics' existing debt.

The
breakout of goodwill and other intangibles acquired with the Northwest Kinetics acquisition was as follows:

Weighted average

amortization

life (years)

Customer relationships

$

13,700


Participant list

1,300


Non-compete covenants



Trademarks and trade names



Goodwill

17,617

—

Total goodwill and other intangibles

$

32,857

The
following selected unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations are presented as if each of the acquisitions had occurred as of the beginning of the period immediately
preceding the period of acquisition after giving effect to certain adjustments including the amortization of intangibles. The pro forma data is for informational purposes only and does not necessarily
reflect the results of operations had the companies operated as one during the periods reported. No effect has been given for synergies, if any, that may have been realized through the acquisitions.

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales

$

1,363,670

$

1,253,372

$

1,073,215

Operating income

(452,512

)

226,386

186,918

Income from continuing operations

(522,931

)

156,783

123,325

Earnings per common share

Basic

$

(7.77

)

$

2.34

$

1.79

Diluted

$

(7.77

)

$

2.28

$

1.76

Refer
to Note 5 for further discussion of the method of computation of earnings per share.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The following table displays goodwill and other intangible assets not subject to amortization and other intangible assets that continue to be subject to amortization:

December 27, 2008

December 29, 2007

Gross Carrying Amount

Accumulated Amortization

Gross Carrying Amount

Accumulated Amortization

Goodwill

$

470,414

$

(12,836

)

$

1,133,432

$

(12,892

)

Other intangible assets not subject to amortization:

Research models

$

3,438

$

—

$

3,438

$

—

Other intangible assets subject to amortization:

Backlog

16,068

(15,259

)

62,250

(62,250

)

Customer relationships

258,607

(131,410

)

224,871

(85,000

)

Customer contracts

1,655

(1,655

)

1,655

(1,655

)

Trademarks and trade names

4,581

(3,933

)

3,274

(2,350

)

Standard operating procedures


(651

)

1,356

(1,310

)

Other identifiable intangible assets

10,100

(6,098

)

10,819

(6,193

)

Total other intangible assets

$

295,106

$

(159,006

)

$

307,663

$

(158,758

)

The
changes in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of goodwill are as follows:

Adjustments to

Goodwill

Adjustments to

Goodwill

Balance at

December 30,


Balance at

December 29,


Balance at

December 27,


Acquisitions

Other

Acquisitions

Other

Research Models and Services

Gross carrying amount

$

21,372

$

—

$


$

22,006

$

9,221

$

(280

)

$

30,947

Accumulated amortization

(4,775

)

—

(127

)

(4,902

)

—


(4,846

)

Preclinical Services

Gross carrying amount

1,110,702

—


1,111,426

29,035

(700,994

)

439,467

Accumulated amortization

(7,990

)

—

—

(7,990

)

—

—

(7,990

)

Total

Gross carrying amount

$

1,132,074

$

—

$

1,358

$

1,133,432

$

38,256

$

(701,274

)

$

470,414

Accumulated amortization

(12,765

)

—

(127

)

(12,892

)

—


(12,836

)

Our annual goodwill impairment assessment has historically been completed at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Based on our initial assessment
for 2008, the fair value of our business units exceeded their carrying value therefore our goodwill was not impaired. As economic conditions worsened late in the fourth quarter and our business
performance was not as strong as anticipated coupled with a decrease in our market capitalization, management determined that circumstances had changed enough to trigger another goodwill impairment
test as of December 27, 2008.

The
goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step process. The first step is used to identify potential impairment and involves comparing each reporting unit's estimated fair
value to its carrying value, including goodwill. Fair value is determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination is deemed to be the
most indicative of our fair



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

3. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (Continued)

value
in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilize information about our Company as well as publicly available industry information to determine
earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit,
discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn.
Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including revenue growth rates, profit margin percentages,
discount rates, perpetuity growth rates, future capital expenditures and future market conditions, among others. Our projections are based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions, strategies,
opportunities and risks from this strategic review along with a market evaluation are the basis for our assessment. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill
is not considered to be impaired. However, if the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the
second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Our analysis resulted in the determination that the fair value our PCS business was less than its carrying value.

The
second step of the goodwill impairment process involves the calculation of an implied fair value of goodwill for the PCS business which step one indicated an impairment. The implied
fair value of goodwill is determined similar to how goodwill is calculated in a business combination, by measuring the excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as calculated in step
one, over the estimated fair values of the individual assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of
goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. In determining the fair value of assets we utilize appraisals for
the fair value of property and equipment and valuations of certain intangible assets, including customer relationships. The carrying value of the goodwill assigned to the PCS business exceeded the
implied fair value of goodwill resulting in a goodwill impairment of $700,000.

Amortization
expense of intangible assets for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $30,312, $33,509 and $37,639, respectively.

Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years is expected to be as follows:


25,801


21,814


18,105


14,615


11,331



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

4. Long-Term Debt

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Senior convertible debentures

$

350,000

$

350,000

$

350,000

Term loan facilities

134,967

159,200

221,274

Revolving credit facility

90,000

—

—

Other long-term debt, represents secured and unsecured promissory notes, interest rates ranging from 0% to 3.7%, 0% to 11.6% and 0% to 11.6% at
December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively, maturing between 2008 and 2013




Total debt

575,773

510,049

572,054

Less: current portion of long-term debt

(35,322

)

(25,051

)

(24,970

)

Long-term debt

$

540,451

$

484,998

$

547,084

Minimum
future principal payments of long-term debt at December 27, 2008 are as follows:

Fiscal Year


$

35,322


77,040


113,408




349,995

Thereafter

—

Total

$

575,773

On
July 31, 2006, the Company amended and restated its $660,000 credit agreement to reduce the current interest rate, modify certain restrictive covenants and extend the term. The
amount of debt outstanding under the original $660,000 credit agreement remained the same at the time of amendment. The now $428,000 credit agreement provided for a $156,000 U.S. term loan facility, a
$200,000 U.S. revolving facility, a C$57,800 term loan facility and a C$12,000 revolving facility for a Canadian subsidiary, and a GBP 6,000 revolving facility for a U.K. subsidiary. The $156,000 term
loan facility matures in 20 quarterly installments with the last installment due June 30, 2011. As of December 27, 2008, the Company had $85,800 outstanding on the U.S. term loan. The
$200,000 U.S. revolving facility matures on July 31, 2011 and requires no scheduled payment before that date. Under specified circumstances, the $200,000 U.S. revolving facility may be
increased by $100,000. The Canadian term loan was repaid during 2007. The Canadian and U.K. revolving facilities were both terminated in the first quarter of 2008. The interest rate applicable to U.S.
term loan and revolving loan under the credit agreement are, at the Company's option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the
adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company's leverage ratio. Based on the Company's leverage ratio, the margin range for LIBOR based loans is 0.625% to 0.875%. The
interest rate margin was 0.625% as



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

4. Long-Term Debt (Continued)

of
December 27, 2008. The Company has pledged the stock of certain subsidiaries as well as certain U.S. assets for the $428,000 credit agreement. The $428,000 credit agreement includes certain
customary representations and warranties, events of default, notice of material adverse change to our business and negative and affirmative covenants including the ratio of consolidated earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to consolidated interest expense, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no less than 3.5 to 1.0 as well as the ratio of
consolidated indebtedness to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, of no more than 3.0 to 1. As of
December 27, 2008, we were compliant with all financial covenants specified in the credit agreement. The Company had $5,627 and $5,466 outstanding under letters of credit as of
December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively. As of December 27, 2008, $90,000 was outstanding on our U.S. revolving credit facility.

On
July 27, 2005 the Company entered into a $50,000 credit agreement ("$50,000 credit agreement"), which was subsequently amended on December 20, 2005 and again on
July 31, 2006 to reflect substantially the same modifications made to the covenants in the $660,000 and $428,000 credit agreements, respectively. On June 15, 2007, the Company executed a
third amendment to the $50,000 credit agreement to extend the maturity date and reduce the interest rate. The $50,000 credit agreement provides for a $50,000 term loan facility which matures on
June 22, 2010. Prior to the amendment, the interest rate applicable to term loans under the credit agreement was, at the Company's option, equal to either the base rate (which was the higher of
the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the LIBOR rate plus 0.75%. From June 15, 2007 through June 21, 2008, the interest rates applicable to term loans under the credit
agreement are, at the Company's option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%)
minus 2.25% or the LIBOR rate plus 0.50%. Commencing June 22, 2008 through June 22, 2010, the applicable interest rates are equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of the
prime rate or the federal funds rate plus 0.50%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate plus an interest rate margin based on the Company's leverage ratio. The Company has pledged certain U.S. assets for the
$50,000 credit agreement. As of December 27, 2008, we were compliant with all financial covenants specified in the credit agreement. The $50,000 credit agreement includes certain customary
representations and warranties, negative and affirmative covenants and events of default. As of December 27, 2008, $49,167 of the $50,000 credit agreement was outstanding.

In
2006, we issued $350,000 of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes (the 2013 Notes) due in June, 2013 with interest payable semi-annually. The 2013 Notes are convertible into
approximately 7.2 million shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $48.94 per share of common stock. The 2013 Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock
(or, at our election, cash in lieu of some or all of such common stock), if any, based on an initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment, of 20.4337 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of notes (which represents an initial conversion price of $48.94 per share), only in the following circumstances and to the following extent: (1) during any fiscal quarter beginning
after July 1, 2006 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on
the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is more than 130% of the conversion price on the last day of such preceding fiscal quarter; (2) during the five
business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period, or the measurement period, in which the trading price per note for each day of that measurement period was
less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions, as
described in the indenture for the 2013



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

4. Long-Term Debt (Continued)

Notes;
and (4) at the option of the holder at any time beginning on the date that is two months prior to the stated maturity date and ending on the close of business on the second
trading-day immediately preceding the maturity date. Upon conversion, we will pay cash and shares of our common stock (or, at our election, cash in lieu of some or all of such common
stock), if any. If we undergo a fundamental change as described in the indenture for the 2013 Notes, holders will have the option to require us to purchase all or any portion of their notes for cash
at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest, including any additional interest to, but excluding, the purchase date.

During
the second and third quarters of 2008, our stock traded at or above 130% of the conversion price for 20 trading days during the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter.
Since the conversion trigger was met, the 2013 Notes were convertible at the discretion of the bond holders during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. As of December 27, 2008, 5 bonds had
been presented for conversion to occur in early February. The conversion trigger tests are repeated each fiscal quarter and no conversion triggers were met in the fourth quarter. At
December 27, 2008, the fair value of our outstanding 2013 Notes was approximately $311.1 based on their quoted market value.

5. Shareholders' Equity

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders for these periods
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding in the respective periods adjusted for contingently issuable shares. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding for 2007 and
2006 have been adjusted to include common stock equivalents for the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share for these periods.

Options
to purchase 4,481,120 shares, 243,357 shares and 2,972,420 shares were outstanding at December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006,
respectively, but were not included in computing diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.

In
addition, weighted average shares outstanding for 2008, 2007 and 2006 excluded the weighted average impact of 777,494, 711,896 and 653,780 shares, respectively, of
non-vested fixed restricted stock awards.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

The
following table illustrates the reconciliation of the numerator and denominator in the computations of the basic and diluted earnings per share:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Numerator:

Income (loss) from continuing operations for purposes of calculating earnings per share

$

(522,267

)

$

157,552

$

125,221

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses

$


$

(3,146

)

$

(181,004

)

Denominator:

Weighted-average shares outstanding—Basic

67,273,748

66,960,515

68,945,622

Effect of dilutive securities:

2.25% senior convertible debentures

—

481,136

—

Stock options and contingently issued restricted stock

—

1,160,369

867,204

Warrants

—

133,916

135,206

Weighted-average shares outstanding—Diluted

67,273,748

68,735,936

69,948,032

Basic earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.35

$

1.82

Basic earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.63

)

Diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations

$

(7.76

)

$

2.29

$

1.79

Diluted earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations

$

0.01

$

(0.05

)

$

(2.59

)

The
sum of the earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations and the earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations does not necessarily equal the earnings (loss) per
share from net income in the consolidated statements of operations due to rounding.

Treasury Shares

The Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program, originally authorized on July 27, 2005 and subsequently
amended on October 26, 2005, May 9, 2006, August 1, 2007 and July 24, 2008 to acquire up to a total of $600,000 of common stock. The program does not have a fixed
expiration date. In order to facilitate these share repurchases, we entered into Rule 10b5-1 Purchase Plans.

During
2008, 2007 and 2006, we repurchased 2,159,908, shares of common stock for $109,260, 724,200 shares of common stock for $38,911, and 518,800 shares of common stock for $23,322,
respectively, under these plans. In addition, concurrent with the sale of the 2013 Notes, we used $148,866 of the net proceeds for the purchase of 3,726,300 shares of its common stock.

During
2006 we also entered into an Accelerated Stock Repurchase (ASR) program with a third-party investment bank. In connection with this ASR program, we purchased 1,787,706 shares of
stock at a cost of $75,000. In conjunction with the ASR, we also entered into a cashless collar with a forward floor price of $37.9576 per share of our common stock (95% of the initial price of
$39.9554, the market price of our common stock on August 23, 2006) and a forward cap price of $41.9532 per share of our common stock (105% of the initial price). The final number of shares
repurchased under the ASR program was determined by taking the average volume weighted average price of our common stock



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

for
65 trading days starting on August 23, 2006. Since the final share price of $42.6503 was above the cap price of $41.9532, there was no adjustment to the final number of shares repurchased.

As
of December 27, 2008, approximately $187,140 remains authorized for share repurchases.

Share
repurchases during 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27, 2008

December 29, 2007

December 30, 2006

Number of shares of common stock repurchased

2,159,908

724,200

6,032,806

Total cost of repurchase

$

109,260

$

38,911

$

247,203

Additionally
our 2000 Incentive Plan permits the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock awards in order to satisfy individual tax withholding requirements. During the
fiscal year ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we acquired 104,662 shares for $6,291, 71,456 shares for $3,506 and 57,688 shares for $2,755,
respectively, as a result of such withholdings.

The
timing and amount of any future repurchases will depend on market conditions and corporate considerations.

Retained Earnings

Retained earnings includes approximately $2,000 which is restricted due to statutory requirements in the local jurisdiction of a
foreign subsidiary as of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007.

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income

The composition of accumulated other comprehensive income is as follows:

Foreign

Currency

Translation

Adjustment

Pension Gains/(Losses)

and Prior Service

(Cost)/Credit Not Yet

Recognized as

Components of Net

Periodic Benefit Costs

Net Unrealized

Gain on

Marketable

Securities

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Income

Balance at December 30, 2006

$

24,103

$

(2,929

)

$

(3

)

$

21,171

Period change

58,045

10,201

(48

)

68,198

Tax

(173

)

(3,637

)

(3,810

)

Balance at December 29, 2007

$

81,975

$

3,635

$

(51

)

$

85,559

Period change

(79,278

)

(12,023

)

(2,167

)

(93,468

)

Tax

6,690

4,566

—

11,256

Balance at December 27, 2008

$

9,387

$

(3,822

)

$

(2,218

)

$

3,347



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

5. Shareholders' Equity (Continued)

Warrants

Separately and concurrently with the pricing of the 2013 Notes, we issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of our
common stock. The warrants give the holders the right to receive, for no additional consideration, cash or shares (at our option) with a value equal to the appreciation in the price of our shares
above $59.925, and expire between September 13, 2013 and January 22, 2014 over 90 equal increments. The total proceeds from the issuance of the warrants was $65,423.

As
part of the recapitalization in 1999, we issued 150,000 units, each comprised of a $1 senior subordinated note and a warrant to purchase 7.6 shares of our common stock for total
proceeds of $150,000. We allocated the $150,000 offering proceeds between the senior subordinated notes ($147,872) and the warrants ($2,128), based upon the estimated fair value. The portion of the
proceeds allocated to the warrants is reflected as capital in excess of par in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Each warrant entitles the holder, subject to certain conditions, to
purchase 7.6 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5.19 per share of common stock, subject to adjustment under some circumstances. Upon exercise, the holders of warrants would be entitled to
purchase 4,180 and 147,250 shares of our common stock as of December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007, respectively. The warrants expire on October 1, 2009.

6. Income Taxes

An analysis of the components of income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments and the related provision for income taxes is presented below:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Income before income taxes, minority interests and earnings from equity investments

U.S.

$

106,392

$

94,286

$

90,598

Non-U.S.

(567,402

)

123,136

85,966

$

(461,010

)

$

217,422

$

176,564

Income tax provision

Current:

Federal

$

21,922

$

39,907

$

22,626

Foreign

28,355

21,547

10,895

State and local

1,278

7,732

5,501

Total current

$

51,555

$

69,186

$

39,022

Deferred:

Federal

$

7,758

$

(3,469

)

$

10,595

Foreign

(5,136

)

(4,689

)


State and local

7,767

(1,628

)


Total deferred

$

10,389

$

(9,786

)

$

10,716

$

61,944

$

59,400

$

49,738



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Income Taxes (Continued)

Net
deferred taxes, detailed below, recognize the impact of temporary differences between the amounts of assets and liabilities recorded for financial statement purposes and such amounts
measured in accordance with tax laws.

December 27,


December 29,


Compensation

$

38,973

$

31,314

Accruals and reserves

1,502


Financing related

25,129

31,301

Goodwill and other intangibles

(5,805

)

(7,851

)

Net operating loss and credit carryforwards

27,446

17,609

Depreciation related

(35,738

)

(28,948

)

Non-indefinitely reinvested earnings

(2,039

)


Other


(1,007

)

50,074

43,061

Valuation allowance

(4,197

)

(561

)

Total deferred taxes

$

45,877

$

42,500

Reconciliations
of the statutory U.S. Federal income tax rate to effective tax rates are as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


U.S. statutory income tax rate

(35.0

)%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Foreign tax rate differences

(2.6

)%

(3.9

)%

(3.4

)%

State income taxes, net of Federal tax benefit

1.5

%

1.7

%

1.9

%

Unbenefitted losses and valuation allowance

0.9

%

0.3

%

(0.2

)%

Net impact of change in APB23 assertion

(1.5

)%

0.0

%

0.0

%

Research tax credits and enhanced deductions

(3.2

)%

(6.0

)%

(6.4

)%

Enacted tax rate changes

0.7

%

(1.3

)%

(1.0

)%

Impact of tax uncertainties

0.5

%

2.2

%

1.1

%

Impact of goodwill impairment

52.5

%

0.0

%

0.0

%

Other

(0.4

)%

(0.7

)%

1.2

%

13.4

%

27.3

%

28.2

%

In
the third quarter of 2008, the Company revalued certain of its deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the enactment of a Massachusetts state tax law change
resulting in tax expense of $3,396. Additionally, the Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $1,897 in the fourth quarter of 2008 resulting from a newly promulgated Massachusetts regulation.

During
2008, the Company recorded a reduction to income taxes payable for $4,911 from the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted shares. The benefit of this reduction has
been recorded to additional paid in capital for $4,769 and goodwill for $142.

As
of December 27, 2008, the Company has non-U.S. net operating loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $10,064. Of this amount, $816 will begin to expire in
2013. The remainder can be carried forward indefinitely. The Company has U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of $10,665 which will begin to expire in 2019. The Company has state tax credit
carryforwards of $1,843 which begin to expire in 2017. The Company has Canadian Investment Tax Credit carryforwards of $3,885 as a result



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Income Taxes (Continued)

of
its research and development activity in Montreal, which begin to expire in 2026. The Company has capital loss carryforwards in the US and Canada, the tax effect of which is $825 and $164,
respectively.

The
Company has fully recognized its deferred tax assets on the belief that it is more likely than not that they will be realized. The only exceptions at December 27, 2008 relate
to deferred tax assets for net operating losses in Luxembourg and China and a capital loss in the U.S., which have resulted in the valuation allowance increasing from $561 at December 29, 2007
to $4,197 at December 27, 2008. The Company established a valuation allowance against these tax attributes due to the determination, after consideration of all evidence, both positive and
negative, that it is more likely than not that these carryforwards will not be realized.

In
July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109"
(FIN 48), which became effective for the Company on December 31, 2006. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 did not result in a change to the Company's opening retained
earnings. At December 27, 2008 the amount recorded for unrecognized income tax benefits was $28,732. At December 29, 2007, the amount recorded for unrecognized tax benefits was $22,129.
The increase during 2008 is primarily due to the continuing evaluation of uncertain tax positions conducted in the current and prior periods. The amount of unrecognized income tax benefits that, if
recognized, would favorably impact the effective tax rate was
$12,500 as of December 29, 2007 and increased to $21,441 as of December 27, 2008. This increase is primarily due to the amendment to SFAS 109 by SFAS 141(R) with regards to
accounting for adjustments to income tax uncertainties related to acquisitions, generally requiring that, on a prospective basis, such adjustments be reflected in the effective tax rate versus
impacting goodwill.

The
Company's unrecognized income tax benefits are as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


Beginning balance

$

22,129

$

16,896

Additions:

Tax positions for current year

2,071

3,612

Tax positions for prior years

8,041

2,413

Reductions:

Tax positions for current year

(252

)

(65

)

Tax positions for prior years

(3,011

)

(43

)

Settlements

—

(177

)

Expiration of statute of limitations

(246

)

(507

)

Ending balance

$

28,732

$

22,129

The
Company continues to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized income tax benefits in income tax expense. The total amount of accrued interest related
to unrecognized income tax benefits as of December 29, 2007 and December 27, 2008 was $1,753 and $2,729, respectively. The Company has not recorded a provision for penalties associated
with uncertain tax positions.

The
Company conducts business operations in a number of tax jurisdictions. As a result, the Company is subject to tax audits on a regular basis including, but not limited to, such major
jurisdictions as United States, the United Kingdom and Canada. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject to U.S. and international income tax examinations for years before 2002.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

6. Income Taxes (Continued)

The
Company and certain of its subsidiaries are currently under audit by the Canada Revenue Agency, the Internal Revenue Service in the United States, and the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts. It is reasonably possible that the Company will settle with the IRS Appeals division on proposed adjustments related to the 2004 and 2005 tax filings for the Company and an acquired
subsidiary and conclude an examination of the 2006 tax filings for the Company within the next twelve months. We do not anticipate that the settlement of the proposed audit adjustments, which relate
primarily to issues associated with an acquisition, will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, there has been no change in the
status of the ongoing examinations by the Canada Revenue Agency and Massachusetts Department of Revenue. The Company believes it has appropriately provided for all unrecognized tax benefits.

During
the first quarter of 2009, the Company plans to repatriate approximately $90,000 of the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries. As such, the Company has changed its
permanent reinvestment assertion with regards to these unremitted earnings. As a result of the change in assertion, the Company recorded a tax benefit primarily due to foreign tax credits in the
fourth quarter of 2008 of $7,227, of which $4,045 was reflected in the effective tax rate and $3,182 was reflected in the Cumulative Translation Account. The proceeds from the repatriation will be
used for general corporate purposes. The Company continues to maintain its permanent reinvestment assertion with regards to the remaining unremitted earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries.

As
of December 27, 2008, earnings of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries considered to be indefinitely reinvested totaled $192,917. No provision for U.S. income taxes
has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to both U.S. Federal and state income taxes and withholding taxes
payable to the various foreign countries. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on this undistributed foreign income.

On
June 12, 2006, the Company issued $300,000 aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes ("the 2013 Notes") in a private placement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $294,000. On June 20, 2006, the initial purchasers associated with this convertible debt offering exercised an option to purchase an additional $50,000 of the 2013 Notes for
additional net proceeds to the Company of approximately $49,000. The 2013 Notes bear interest at 2.25% per annum, payable semi-annually, and mature on June 15, 2013. Concurrently
with the sale of the 2013 Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with respect to its obligation to deliver common stock under the notes. Separately and concurrently with
the pricing of the 2013 Notes, the Company issued warrants for approximately 7.2 million shares of its common stock. The Company has elected to apply the rules of the Integration Regulations
under Treas. Reg. 1.1275-6 to treat the 2013 Notes and the associated hedge as synthetic debt instruments and accordingly is deducting the option premium paid for the hedge as original
issue discount over the 7 year term. The cash tax benefit of this deduction is recorded to additional paid in capital. A deferred tax asset has been recorded to reflect the future cash tax
benefit of the deductions over the term of the 2013 Notes.
Also, pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 1032, the Company will not recognize any gain or loss for tax purpose with respect to the exercise or lapse of the warrants.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits

Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan

Our defined contribution plan, the Charles River Laboratories Employee Savings Plan, qualifies under section 401(k) of the
Internal Revenue Code. It covers substantially all U.S. employees and contains a provision whereby we match a percentage of employee contributions. The costs associated with this defined contribution
plan totaled $6,377, $4,074 and $3,439, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan and Executive Supplemental Life Insurance Retirement Plan

The Charles River Laboratories Deferred Compensation Plan (Deferred Compensation Plan) is designed for select eligible employees,
including our Named Executive Officers. Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, participants may elect to defer bonus and salary amounts, and may select the investment returns to be applied to deferred
amounts from among a number of reference mutual funds as well as an interest crediting rate. The plan is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and is not subject to
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. At the present time, no contributions will be credited to the plan, except as set forth below. Participants must specify the distribution date for
deferred amounts at the time of deferral, in accordance with applicable IRS regulations. Generally, amounts may be paid in lump sum or installments upon retirement or termination of employment, or
later if the employee terminates employment after age 55 and before age 65. Amounts may also be distributed during employment, subject to a minimum deferral requirement of three years.

In
addition to the Deferred Compensation Plan, certain officers and key employees also participate, or in the past participated, in our amended and restated Executive Supplemental Life
Insurance Retirement Plan (ESLIRP) which is a non-funded, non-qualified arrangement. Annual benefits under this plan will equal a percentage of the highest five consecutive
years of compensation, offset by amounts payable under the Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan and Social Security.

In
connection with the establishment of the Deferred Compensation Plan, current active employees who agreed to convert their ESLIRP benefit to a comparable benefit in the deferred
compensation plan discontinued their direct participation in the ESLIRP. Instead, the present value of the accrued benefits of ESLIRP participants was credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan
accounts, and future ESLIRP accruals will now be converted to present values and credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan accounts annually. Upon the adoption of the Deferred Compensation Plan,
the value of their accrued ESLIRP benefits, prior to adjustments for outstanding Medicare taxes, were credited to their Deferred Compensation Plan account. In addition, we provide certain active
employees an annual contribution into their Deferred Compensation Plan account of 10% of the employee's base salary plus the lesser of their target annual bonus or actual annual bonus. The costs
associated with these defined contribution plans totaled $2,819, $3,462 and $4,029 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

The
Company has invested in several corporate-owned key-person life insurance policies as well as mutual funds and U.S. Treasury Securities with the intention of using these
investments to fund the ESLIRP and the Deferred Compensation Plan. Participants have no interest in any such investments. At December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 the cash surrender
value of these life insurance policies were $19,652 and $22,027, respectively.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Pension Plans

The Charles River Pension Plan is a defined contribution plan and a defined benefit pension plan covering certain UK employees.
Benefits are based on participants' final pensionable salary and years of service. Participants' rights vest immediately. Effective December 31, 2002, the plan was amended to exclude new
participants from joining the defined benefit section of the plan and a defined contribution section was established for new entrants. Contributions under the defined contribution plan are determined
as a percentage of gross salary.

The
Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan is a qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plan that covers certain U.S. employees. Benefits are based on
participants' final average monthly compensation and years of service. Participants' rights vest upon completion of five years of service. Effective January 1, 2002, this plan was amended to
exclude new participants from joining. Benefit criteria offered to existing participants as of the amendment date did not change. During 2008, our Board of Directors voted to freeze the accrual of
benefits under the Pension Plan effective April 30, 2008. In accordance with SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for
Termination Benefits," we recorded a curtailment gain of $3,276 in 2008. Based on a remeasurement of the U.S. pension plan's assets and liabilities at April 30, 2008, the benefit accrual freeze
reduced the projected benefit obligation by $8,298 and resulted in a corresponding adjustment, net of tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income.

The
defined benefit pension plans for Japan and our Canadian RMS operation are non-contributory plans that cover substantially all employees of those respective companies.
Benefits are based upon length of service and final salary. In addition, our French RMS operation has a defined benefit statutory indemnity plan covering most of its employees.

The
following tables summarize the funded status of our defined benefit plans and amounts reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.

Obligations and Funded Status

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Change in benefit obligations

Benefit obligation at beginning of year

$

232,852

$

212,998

$

29,925

$

29,262

Service cost

4,037

6,204



Interest cost

12,014

11,663

1,718

1,580

Plan participants' contributions



—

—

Curtailment

(14,483

)

—

—

—

Settlement gain

(3,454

)

(1,214

)

—

—

Benefit payments

(5,404

)

(4,857

)

(704

)

(605

)

Actuarial loss (gain)

(24,564

)

(8,905

)

(734

)

(1,194

)

Plan amendments



—

—

Other

—

1,353

—

—

Effect of foreign exchange

(35,663

)

14,667

—

—

Benefit obligation at end of year

$

166,261

$

232,852

$

31,113

$

29,925



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Change in plan assets

Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year

$

196,214

$

163,446

$

—

$

—

Plan assets assumed

—

—

—

—

Actual return on plan assets

(35,272

)

11,598

—

—

Settlement gain

(3,454

)

(1,214

)

—

—

Employer contributions

14,169

12,364



Plan participants' contributions



—

—

Benefit payments

(5,404

)

(4,857

)

(704

)

(605

)

Premiums paid

—

—

—

—

Other

—


—

—

Effect of foreign exchange

(33,008

)

13,575

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at end of year

$

134,034

$

196,214

$

—

$

—

Funded status

Projected benefit obligation

$

166,261

$

232,852

$

31,113

$

29,925

Fair value of plan assets

134,034

196,214

—

—

Net balance sheet liability

$

32,227

$

36,638

$

31,113

$

29,925

Classification of net balance sheet liability

Current liabilities

$


$


$

5,159

$


Non-current liabilities

32,175

35,729

$

25,954

$

29,293

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans

$

162,843

$

214,564

$

20,614

$

23,308

Information for defined benefit plans with accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit obligation

$

157,068

$

165,080

$

31,113

$

29,925

Accumulated benefit obligation

156,017

163,741

20,614

23,308

Fair value of plan assets

125,143

142,131

—

—

Information for defined benefit plans with projected benefit obligation in excess of plan assets

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Projected benefit obligation

$

166,261

$

232,852

$

31,112

$

29,925

Accumulated benefit obligation

162,843

214,564

20,614

23,308

Fair value of plan assets

134,034

196,214

—

—



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Amounts recognized in statement of financial position as part of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI")

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Net actuarial (gain)/loss

$

14,309

$

(2,962

)

$

6,365

$

7,512

Net prior service cost/(credit)

(9,124

)

(11,023

)

3,475

3,973

Effect of foreign exchange

(5,400

)


—

—

Total pre-tax

(215

)

(13,882

)

9,840

11,485

Less: taxes

1,908

(3,305

)

3,895

4,541

Total

$

(2,123

)

$

(10,577

)

$

5,945

$

6,944

Amounts in AOCI expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits

Amortization of net actuarial (gain)/loss

$

1,250

$


Amortization of net prior service cost/(credit)

(607

)


Components of net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Service cost

$

4,037

$

6,204

$

6,426

$


$


$


Interest cost

12,014

11,663

9,921

1,718

1,581

1,527

Expected return on plan assets

(13,499

)

(12,630

)

(10,013

)

—

—

—

Amortization of prior service cost (credit)

(684

)

(526

)

(547

)




Amortization of net loss

(31

)


1,011



1,139

Net periodic benefit cost

1,837

5,097

6,798

3,537

3,529

4,003

Curtailment gain

(3,345

)


(1,334

)

—

—

—

Net pension cost

$

(1,508

)

$

5,423

$

5,464

$

3,537

$

3,529

$

4,003



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Assumptions

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits





Discount rate

5.74

%

5.69

%

6.15

%

5.88

%

Rate of compensation increase

2.90

%

4.07

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost

Pension Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement Benefits







Discount rate

5.69

%

5.14

%

4.95

%

5.88

%

5.56

%

5.50

%

Expected long-term return on plan assets

7.10

%

7.00

%

6.58

%

—

—

—

Rate of compensation increase

4.07

%

3.94

%

3.31

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

4.75

%

The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was made considering the pension plan's asset mix, historical returns and the expected yields on plan assets.

Plan assets

The Company's pension plan weighted-average asset allocations are as follows:

Target

Allocation

Pension Benefits




Equity securities


%


%


%

Fixed income


%


%


%

Other


%


%


%

Total


%


%


%

Our
investment objective is to obtain the highest possible return commensurate with the level of assumed risk. Fund performances are compared to benchmarks including the S&P 500
Index, Russell 1000 Index, Russell 3000 Index and Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index. The Company's Investment Committee meets on a quarterly basis to review plan assets.

Plan
assets did not include any of our common stock at December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007.

Contributions

During 2008, we contributed $13,597 to our pension plans. We expect to contribute $8,907 to our pension plan in 2009.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

7. Employee Benefits (Continued)

Estimated future benefit payments

Pension

Benefits

Supplemental

Retirement

Benefits


$

4,286

$

5,159


3,971



4,187



4,950



5,306

17,726

2014-2018

35,931

10,783

8. Stock Based Compensation

We have share-based compensation plans under which employees and non-employee directors may be granted share based awards. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, the primary share-based
awards and their general terms and conditions are as follows:

•

Stock options, which entitle the holder to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock at an exercise price
equal to the closing market price of our common stock on the date of grant; vest incrementally, typically over three to four years; and generally expire seven to ten years from date of grant.

•

Restricted stock grants, which entitle the holder to receive at no cost, a specified number of shares of common stock that
vests incrementally, typically over three to four years. Recipients are entitled to cash dividends and to vote their respective shares upon grant.

•

Performance based stock awards, which entitle the holder to receive at no cost, a specified number of shares of common
stock within a range of shares from zero to a specified maximum. Payout of this award is contingent upon achievement of individualized stretch goals as determined by our Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors.

At
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 8, 2007, our shareholders approved the 2007 Incentive Plan ("the 2007 Plan"). The 2007 Plan provides that effective upon
approval, no further awards will be granted under preexisting stock option and incentive plans; provided, however, that any shares that have been forfeited or canceled in accordance with the terms of
the applicable award under a preexisting plan may be subsequently awarded in accordance with the terms of the preexisting plan. The 2007 Plan allows a maximum of 6.3 million shares to be
awarded of which restricted stock grants and performance based stock awards count as 2.3 shares and stock options count as one share. In the past, we had various employee stock and incentive plans
under which stock options and other share-based awards were granted. Stock options and other share-based awards that were granted under prior plans and were outstanding on May 8, 2007, continue
in accordance with the terms of the respective plans.

At
December 27, 2008, approximately 4.5 million shares were authorized for future grants under our share-based compensation plans. We settle employee share-based
compensation awards with newly issued shares.

The
estimated fair value of our stock-based awards, less expected forfeitures, is amortized over the awards' vesting period on a straight-line basis in accordance with SFAS
No. 123(R). The effect of



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

recording
stock-based compensation for the fiscal year ended December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 was as follows:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Stock-based compensation expense by type of award:

Stock options

$

10,268

$

11,042

$

11,878

Restricted stock

14,065

14,976

9,271

Share-based compensation expense before tax

24,333

26,018

21,149

Income tax benefit

(8,612

)

(8,424

)

(7,746

)

Reduction to income from continuing operations

15,721

17,594

13,403

Share-based compensation expense of discontinued businesses, net of tax

—

—


Reduction to net income

$

15,721

$

17,594

$

14,383

Reduction to earnings per share:

Basic

$

0.23

$

0.26

$

0.21

Diluted

$

0.23

$

0.26

$

0.21

Effect on income by line item:

Cost of sales

$

6,406

$

8,258

$

7,033

Selling and administration

17,927

17,759

14,116

Share based compensation expense before tax

24,333

26,017

21,149

Income tax benefit

(8,612

)

(8,423

)

(7,746

)

Operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax

—

—


Reduction to net income

$

15,721

$

17,594

$

14,383

We
estimate the fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the exercise
price of the award, the expected option term, the risk-free interest rate over the option's expected term, the expected annual dividend yield and the expected stock price volatility. The
expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the historical volatility of our common stock over the expected life of the option. The risk-free interest rate was based on the market
yield for the five year U.S. Treasury security. The expected life of options was determined using historical option exercise
activity. Management believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in calculating the fair values of our stock options granted
during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by persons who receive equity awards.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
fair value of stock-based awards granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Expected life (in years)

4.5

5.0

4.9

Expected volatility


%


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

2.8

%

4.6

%

4.8

%

Expected dividend yield

0.0

%

0.0

%

0.0

%

Weighted—average grant date fair value

$

14.85

$

16.49

$

13.91

Stock Options

The following table summarizes stock option activities under our plans:

Shares

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

(in years)

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Options outstanding as of December 31, 2005

5,554,340

$

35.39

Options granted

889,650

$

39.62

Options exercised

(766,209

)

$

29.97

Options canceled

(285,168

)

$

41.85

Options outstanding as of December 30, 2006

5,392,613

$

36.50

Options granted

934,690

$

46.95

Options exercised

(1,737,413

)

$

31.47

Options canceled

(122,087

)

$

41.49

Options outstanding as of December 29, 2007

4,467,803

$

40.50

Options granted

820,200

$

58.59

Options exercised

(706,755

)

$

38.98

Options canceled

(100,128

)

$

46.14

Options outstanding as of December 27, 2008

4,481,120

$

43.93

5.02 years

$

1,423

Options exercisable as of December 30, 2006

3,822,370

$

34.04

Options exercisable as of December 29, 2007

2,708,268

$

37.92

Options exercisable as of December 27, 2008

2,729,255

$

39.65

4.67 years

$

1,423

As
of December 27, 2008, the unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options expected to vest was $19,352. This unrecognized compensation will be recognized over
an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 30 months.

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal years ending December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 was $17,197, $37,342 and
$12,557, respectively, with intrinsic value defined as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the grant date price. The total amount of cash received from the exercise of
these options was $27,589. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $5,888 for the year ended December 27, 2008.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options as of December 27, 2008:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of Exercise Prices

Number

Outstanding

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

(In years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

Options

Exercisable

Weighted

Average

Remaining

Contractual

Life

(In years)

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Aggregate

Intrinsic

Value

$0.00–$10.00

24,702

1.04

$

4.74


24,702

1.04

$

4.74


$10.01–$20.00

84,479

2.75

14.37


84,479

2.75

14.37


$20.01–$30.00

39,074

4.53

27.71


39,074

4.53

27.71


$30.01–$40.00

1,392,762

4.27

34.82

—

1,071,312

4.14

33.87

—

$40.01–$50.00

2,090,888

5.21

46.07

—

1,461,194

5.20

45.86

—

$50.01–$60.00

779,445

6.12

58.08

—

48,494

5.50

51.83

—

$60.01–$70.00

69,770

6.34

62.63

—

—

—

—

—

Totals

4,481,120

5.02 years

$

43.93

$

1,423

2,729,255

4.67 years

$

39.65

$

1,423

The
aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total intrinsic value, based on a closing stock price of $25.02 as of December 27, 2008, that would have been
received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of December 27,
2008 was 118,948.

The
following table summarizes the non-vested stock option activity in the equity incentive plans for the fiscal year ending December 27, 2008:

Stock Options

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Non-vested at December 29, 2007

1,759,535

$

44.47

Granted

820,200

58.59

Forfeited

(92,606

)

46.93

Vested

(735,264

)

45.43

Non-vested at December 27, 2008

1,751,865

$

50.60

Restricted Stock

Stock compensation expense associated with restricted common stock is charged for the market value on the date of grant, less estimated
forfeitures, and is amortized over the awards' vesting period on a straight-line basis.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

8. Stock Based Compensation (Continued)

The
following table summarizes the restricted stock activity for 2008:

Restricted Stock

Weighted

Average

Grant Date

Fair Value

Outstanding December 29, 2007

711,896

$

44.25

Granted

383,388

58.39

Vested

(344,272

)

46.61

Canceled

(34,618

)

46.33

Outstanding December 27, 2008

716,394

$

50.58

As
of December 27, 2008, the unrecognized compensation cost related to shares of unvested restricted stock expected to vest was $24,895. This unrecognized compensation will be
recognized over an estimated weighted-average amortization period of 31 months. The total fair value of restricted stock grants that vested during the fiscal years ending December 27,
2008, December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 was $16,049, $10,661 and $9,231, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from restricted stock grants that
vested totaled $7,574 for the year ended December 27, 2008.

During
2008 and 2007, we made performance-based awards to our executives. Payout of these awards is contingent upon achievement of individualized stretch goals as determined by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. These grants are accounted for in accordance with FAS 123(R), accordingly, compensation expense associated with these awards of $2,360 and
$1,883 has been recorded during 2008 and 2007, respectively.

9. Commitments and Contingencies

Operating Leases

We have commitments for various operating leases for machinery and equipment, vehicles, office equipment, land and office space. As a
matter of ordinary business course, we occasionally guarantee certain lease commitments to landlords. Rent expense for all operating leases was $23,781, $25,548 and $18,134 in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under noncancellable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more, consist of the following at
December 27, 2008:


21,410


13,790


11,051


8,937


8,417

Thereafter

34,676



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

9. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued)

Insurance

We maintain various insurances which maintain large deductibles up to $500, some with or without stop-loss limits,
depending on market availability. Aggregate loss limits for workers compensation and auto liability are projected at $5,200.

Construction

We have certain purchase commitments related to the completion of our ongoing construction projects which amounted to approximately
$27,406 as of December 27, 2008.

Litigation

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings of a nature considered normal to its business are pending against us. In the opinion of
management, the outcome of such proceedings and litigation currently pending will not materially affect our consolidated financial statements.

10. Business Segment and Geographic Information

In accordance with SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," we disclose financial and descriptive information about its reportable
operating segments. Operating segments are components of an enterprise for which separate financial information is available and is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker in
deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.

We
report two segments, called Research Models and Services (RMS) and Preclinical Services (PCS).

Our
RMS segment includes sales of research models, genetically engineered models and services (GEMS), research animal diagnostics, discovery and imaging services, consulting and staffing
services, vaccine support and in vitro technology (primarily endotoxin testing). Our PCS segment includes services required to take a drug through the development process including discovery support,
toxicology, pathology, biopharmaceutical, bioanalysis, pharmacokinetics and drug metabolism services as well as Phase I clinical trials.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10. Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by business segment. Net sales represent sales originating in entities primarily engaged in either provision of RMS or
PCS. Long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles and other long-lived assets.




Research Models and Services

Net sales

$

659,941

$

577,231

$

514,999

Gross margin

284,639

249,348

214,125

Operating income

198,696

177,151

147,789

Total assets

684,824

630,029

674,963

Long-lived assets

327,568

287,058

306,267

Depreciation and amortization

28,186

23,378

20,804

Capital expenditures

60,490

51,086

27,018

Preclinical Services

Net sales

$

683,552

$

653,395

$

543,386

Gross margin

226,070

228,843

192,482

Operating income

(596,437

)

103,541

82,323

Total assets

1,470,674

2,170,313

1,875,487

Long-lived assets

1,147,089

1,817,173

1,641,935

Depreciation and amortization

62,997

63,001

61,779

Capital expenditures

136,591

175,950

154,728

A
reconciliation of segment operating income to consolidated operating income is as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Total segment operating income

$

(397,741

)

$

280,692

$

230,112

Unallocated corporate overhead

(52,021

)

(53,501

)

(41,939

)

Consolidated operating income

$

(449,762

)

$

227,191

$

188,173



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

10. Business Segment and Geographic Information (Continued)

A
summary of unallocated corporate overhead consists of the following:

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Stock-based compensation expense

$

11,968

$

11,902

$

8,624

U.S. retirement plans

(161

)

7,074

8,377

Audit, tax and related expense

2,727

3,455

3,924

Salary and bonus

18,943

15,652

11,271

Global IT

8,282

5,004

—

Employee health LDP and fringe benefit expense

(2,774

)

(908

)

2,885

Consulting and outside services

1,822

1,675

1,477

Other general unallocated corporate expenses

11,214

9,647

5,381

$

52,021

$

53,501

$

41,939

Other
general unallocated corporate expenses consist of various departmental costs including those associated with departments such as senior executives, corporate accounting, legal,
tax, human resources, treasury and investor relations.

The
following table presents sales and other financial information by geographic regions. Included in the other non-U.S. category below are operations located in China,
Korea, Australia, India and Mexico. Sales to unaffiliated customers represent net sales originating in entities physically located in the identified geographic area. Long-lived assets
include property, plant and equipment, goodwill, other intangibles, and other long-lived assets.

U.S.

Europe

Canada

Japan

Other

Non-U.S.

Consolidated


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

697,227

$

362,751

$

204,252

$

66,749

$

12,514

$

1,343,493

Long-lived assets

11,582

608,839

768,882

58,081

27,273

1,474,657


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

620,915

$

339,347

$

201,936

$

56,435

$

11,993

$

1,230,626

Long-lived assets

638,219

596,730

809,773

50,844

8,665

2,104,231


Sales to unaffiliated customers

$

527,432

$

289,072

$

173,853

$

56,387

$

11,641

$

1,058,385

Long-lived assets

537,534

580,143

785,420

41,385

3,721

1,948,203

11. Discontinued Operations

During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company initiated actions to sell Phase II-IV of the Clinical business. On May 9, 2006, the Company announced that
it entered into a definitive agreement to sell Phase II-IV of the Clinical Services business for $215,000 in cash as part of a portfolio realignment which would allow the Company to
capitalize on core competencies. Accordingly, management performed a goodwill impairment test for the Clinical business segment assuming sale of the Phase II-IV business. To
determine the fair value of this segment, the Company used a combination of discounted cash flow methodology for the Phase I Clinical business and expected selling price for the



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Discontinued Operations (Continued)

Phase II-IV
Clinical business. Based on this analysis, it was determined that the book carrying value of goodwill assigned to the Clinical business reporting unit exceeded its
implied fair value and therefore a $129,187 charge was recorded in 2006 to write-down the value of this goodwill. No additional goodwill impairment was recorded during 2006.

In
addition, taking into account the planned divestiture of the Phase II-IV Clinical business, the Company performed an impairment test on the long-lived
assets of the Clinical Phase II-IV business. Based on this analysis, the Company determined that the book value of assets assigned to the Clinical Phase II-IV
business exceeded its future cash flows, which included the proceeds from the sale of the business, and therefore recorded an impairment of the assets of $3,900 during 2006.

During
2006, the Company also made a decision to close its Interventional and Surgical Services (ISS) business, which was formerly included in the Preclinical Services segment. The
Company performed an impairment test on the long-lived assets of the ISS business and based on that analysis, it was determined that the book value of the ISS assets exceeded the future
cash flows of the business. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $1,070 during 2006.

For
the year end December 30, 2006, the discontinued businesses recorded a loss from operations of $181,004 which included a $546 loss from the sale of the
Phase II-IV Clinical business. As a direct result of the sale, the Company realized a significant tax gain resulting in additional tax expense of $37,835, all of which has been paid
by the end of fiscal year 2006.

The
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to segregate, as discontinued operations, the assets and liabilities, operating results and cash flows, of the businesses
being discontinued for all periods presented. Operating results from discontinued operations are as follows:

Fiscal Year Ended

December 27,


December 29,


December 30,


Net sales

$

—

$


$

73,658

Income (loss) from operations of discontinued businesses, before income taxes



(145,613

)

Provision for income taxes

(302

)

3,413

35,391

Income (loss) from operations of discontinued businesses, net of taxes

$


$

(3,146

)

$

(181,004

)



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

11. Discontinued Operations (Continued)

Assets
and liabilities of discontinued operations at December 27, 2008 and December 29, 2007 consisted of the following:

December 27, 2008

December 29, 2007

Current assets

$


$

1,007

Long-term assets

4,187

4,187

Total assets

$

4,420

$

5,194

Current liabilities

$


$


Total liabilities

$


$


Current
assets included accounts receivable and prepaid income taxes. Non-current assets included a long-term tax receivable. Current liabilities consisted of
accounts payable, deferred income and accrued expenses.

12. Subsequent Event

During the first quarter of 2009, we implemented actions to improve our operating efficiency. As a result of these actions, we will record a one time charge, primarily in the first
quarter of 2009 of approximately $9.0 million, mainly in the PCS segment, for the closure and severance of our Arkansas facility as well as other headcount reductions.



CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Quarterly Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 2008

Total net sales

$

337,685

$

352,134

$

342,227

$

311,447

Gross profit

130,377

137,987

130,270

112,075

Operating income (loss)

63,500

69,323

68,211

(650,796

)

Income from continuing operations

45,154

50,187

44,700

(662,308

)

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

—

—

—


Net income

$

45,154

$

50,187

$

44,700

$

(661,884

)

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.67

$

0.75

$

0.67

$

(9.91

)

Discontinued operations

—

—

—

0.01

Net income

$

0.67

$

0.75

$

0.67

$

(9.91

)

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.64

$

0.71

$

0.63

$

(9.91

)

Discontinued operations

—

—

—

0.01

Net income

$

0.64

$

0.71

$

0.63

$

(9.91

)

Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 2007

Total net sales

$

291,199

$

307,435

$

313.964

$

318,028

Gross profit

115,573

120,596

123,899

117,763

Operating income (loss)

54,701

56,725

63,631

52,134

Income from continuing operations

37,227

37,841

43,536

38,948

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(464

)


(759

)

(2,038

)

Net income

$

36,763

$

37,956

$

42,777

$

36,910

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.56

$

0.57

$

0.65

$

0.58

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

—

(0.01

)

(0.03

)

Net income

$

0.55

$

0.57

$

0.64

$

0.55

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.55

$

0.55

$

0.63

$

0.55

Discontinued operations

(0.01

)

—

(0.01

)

(0.03

)

Net income

$

0.54

$

0.55

$

0.62

$

0.52

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Total net sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross profit

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income (loss)

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Income from continuing operations

28,515

32,781

32,133

31,792

Income (loss) from discontinued businesses, net of tax

(128,630

)

(7,032

)

(48,739

)

3,397

Net income

$

(100,115

)

$

25,749

$

(16,606

)

$

35,189

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic

Continuing operations

$

0.40

$

0.46

$

0.48

$

0.48

Discontinued operations

(1.80

)

(0.10

)

(0.73

)

0.05

Net income

$

(1.40

)

$

0.36

$

(0.25

)

$

0.53

Diluted

Continuing operations

$

0.39

$

0.46

$

0.47

$

0.47

Discontinued operations

(1.76

)

(0.10

)

(0.72

)

0.05

Net income

$

(1.37

)

$

0.36

$

(0.24

)

$

0.52



Quarterly Segment Information (Unaudited)

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 27, 2008

Research Models and Services

Sales

$

168,596

$

172,848

$

165,656

$

152,841

Gross margin

76,256

76,429

70,813

61,141

Operating income

55,813

52,199

50,673

40,011

Depreciation and amortization

6,659

7,016

7,043

7,468

Capital expenditures

10,146

23,510

12,572

14,262

Preclinical Services

Sales

$

169,089

$

179,286

$

176,571

$

158,606

Gross margin

54,121

61,558

59,457

50,934

Operating income

23,268

28,849

30,390

(678,944

)

Depreciation and amortization

15,674

16,004

15,894

15,425

Capital expenditures

29,558

40,667

33,577

32,789

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(15,581

)

$

(11,725

)

$

(12,852

)

$

(11,863

)

Total

Sales

$

337,685

$

352,134

$

342,227

$

311,447

Gross margin

130,377

137,987

130,270

112,075

Operating income

63,500

69,323

68,211

(650,796

)

Depreciation and amortization

22,333

23,020

22,937

22,893

Capital expenditures

39,704

64,177

46,149

47,051

First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 29, 2007

Research Models and Services

Sales

$

143,068

$

143,803

$

145,207

$

145,153

Gross margin

63,654

63,109

63,408

59,177

Operating income

47,021

45,268

45,574

39,288

Depreciation and amortization

5,569

5,663

5,780

6,366

Capital expenditures

7,084

10,688

12,643

20,671

Preclinical Services

Sales

$

148,131

$

163,632

$

168,757

$

172,875

Gross margin

51,919

57,847

60,491

58,586

Operating income

23,444

27,426

29,993

22,678

Depreciation and amortization

14,344

15,569

16,180

16,908

Capital expenditures

30,840

38,724

37,692

68,694

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(15,764

)

$

(15,969

)

$

(11,936

)

$

(9,832

)

Total

Sales

$

291,199

$

307,435

$

313,964

$

318,028

Gross margin

115,573

120,956

123,899

117,763

Operating income

54,701

56,725

63,631

52,134

Depreciation and amortization

19,913

21,232

21,960

23,274

Capital expenditures

37,924

49,412

50,335

89,365



First

Quarter

Second

Quarter

Third

Quarter

Fourth

Quarter

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2006

Research Models and Services

Sales

$

128,972

$

130,816

$

127,560

$

127,651

Gross margin

55,866

55,478

52,423

50,358

Operating income

40,476

38,003

36,691

32,619

Depreciation and amortization

5,035

5,237

5,185

5,345

Capital expenditures

3,566

4,783

3,932

14,737

Preclinical Services

Sales

$

125,169

$

137,043

$

137,100

$

144,074

Gross margin

39,639

51,632

49,839

51,372

Operating income

13,788

22,530

22,971

23,034

Depreciation and amortization

14,625

15,288

15,389

16,482

Capital expenditures

35,821

12,620

39,038

67,249

Unallocated corporate overhead

$

(10,568

)

$

(12,831

)

$

(8,041

)

$

(10,499

)

Total

Sales

$

254,141

$

267,859

$

264,660

$

271,725

Gross margin

95,505

107,110

102,262

101,730

Operating income

43,696

47,702

51,621

45,154

Depreciation and amortization

19,660

20,525

20,574

21,827

Capital expenditures

39,387

17,403

42,970

81,986



Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreement with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures

(a)   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Based on their evaluation, required by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15, promulgated by the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (Exchange Act), the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act are effective as of December 27, 2008 to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in
reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that it files or
submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer's management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions,
as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls and procedures,
no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurances of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in designing
and evaluating the controls and procedures. We continually are in the process of further reviewing and documenting our disclosure controls and procedures, and our internal control over financial
reporting, and accordingly may from time to time make changes aimed at enhancing their effectiveness and to ensure that our systems evolve with our business.

(b)   Changes in Internal Controls

There were no changes in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of
the Exchange Act Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 that occurred during the quarter ended December 27, 2008 that materially affected, or were reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.

Management's
report on our internal controls over financial reporting can be found in Item 8 of this report. The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's report on the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting can also be found in Item 8 of this report.

Item 9B.    Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance

A.    Directors and Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act

The information required by this Item regarding the directors of the Company and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act by the Company's
officers and directors will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein by reference
thereto. The information required by this Item regarding the Company's corporate governance will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Corporate Governance" and is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.

B.    Executive Officers of the Company

The information required by this Item regarding the executive officers of the Company is reported in Part I of this Form 10-K under the
heading "Supplementary Item. Executive Officers of the Registrant pursuant to Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K."

C.    Audit Committee Financial Expert

The information required by this Item regarding the audit committee of the Board of Directors and financial experts will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement
under the section captioned "The Board of Directors and its Committees—Audit Committee and Financial Experts" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

D.    Code of Ethics

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all of its employees and directors, including the principal executive officer,
principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, controller or persons performing similar functions. The Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on our website by selecting
the "Corporate Governance" link at

http://ir.criver.com

. The Company will provide to any person, without charge, a copy of its Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics by requesting a copy from the Secretary, Charles River Laboratories, Inc., 251 Ballardvale Street, Wilmington, MA 01887.

E.    Changes to Board Nomination Procedures

Effective December 2, 2008, the Company's Board of Directors amended the Company's amended and restated bylaws. The amendments replaced
sections 1.12 and 1.13 of the second amended and restated bylaws with entirely new sections 1.12 and 1.13, which relate primarily to the requirements for advance notice and additional
information that a shareholder must provide when making a director nomination or proposal at the Company's annual meeting of shareholders. A copy of the amended bylaws is attached as
Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 5, 2008.

Item 11.    Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Compensation
Discussion and Analysis," "2008 Director Compensation," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," "Executive Compensation and Related Information" and "Report of Compensation
Committee" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.



Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Beneficial Ownership
of Securities" and "Equity Compensation Plan Information" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto. See also Item 5. "Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans" for the disclosure required by Item 201(d) of
Regulation S-K promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the sections captioned "Related Person
Transaction Policy" and "Corporate Governance—Director Qualification Standards; Director Independence" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The information required by this Item will be included in the 2009 Proxy Statement under the section captioned "Statement of Fees Paid
to Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

PART IV

Item 15.    Exhibits

Item 15(a)(1) and (2) and Item 15(d) Financial Statements and Schedules

See "Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statements Schedules" at Item 8 to this
Form 10-K. Other financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

Item 15(a)(3) and Item 15(c) Exhibits

The exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding
the exhibits. The Company has identified in the Exhibit Index each management contract and compensation plan filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K in response to
Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

Date: February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
below and on the dates indicated.

Signatures

Title

Date

By:

/s/ JAMES C. FOSTER

James C. Foster

President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ THOMAS F. ACKERMAN

Thomas F. Ackerman

Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ NANCY T. CHANG

Nancy T. Chang

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ STEPHEN D. CHUBB

Stephen D. Chubb

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ GEORGE E. MASSARO

George E. Massaro

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ DEBORAH KOCHEVAR

Deborah Kochevar

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.

George M. Milne, Jr.

Director

February 23, 2009



Signatures

Title

Date

By:

/s/ C. RICHARD REESE

C. Richard Reese

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ DOUGLAS E. ROGERS

Douglas E. Rogers

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ SAMUEL O. THIER

Samuel O. Thier

Director

February 23, 2009

By:

/s/ WILLIAM H. WALTRIP

William H. Waltrip

Director

February 23, 2009



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit No.

Description

3.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 3.1).(1)

3.2

By-laws of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2).(2)

4.1

Form of certificate representing shares of common stock, $0.01 per value per share (Filed as Exhibit 4.1).(1)

4.2

Indenture dated June 6, 2006, amount Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association.(3)

4.3

Form of 2.25% Convertible Senior Note due 2013.(3)

10.1*

Severance Agreement between Charles River Laboratories, Inc. and Real H. Renaud, dated January 20, 1992, amended December 15, 2008. +

10.2*

1999 Charles River Laboratories Corporate Officer Separation Plan.+

10.3

Charles River Laboratories 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan (Filed as Exhibit 10.6)+(4).

10.4

Charles River Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan, as amended May 2003 and May 2005. (Filed as Exhibit 10.7).(4)+

10.5

Charles River Laboratories 2000 Incentive Plan Inland Revenue Approved Rules for UK Employees (Filed as Exhibit 99.1).(10)+

10.7*

Form of Change in Control Agreement.+

10.8*

Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.+

10.9

Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan.+(6)

10.10

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under 2000 Incentive Plan.+(6)

10.11

Inveresk Research Group, Inc. 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of May 4, 2004.+(5)

10.12

Charles River Laboratories Executive Life Insurance/Supplemental Retirement Income Plan.(7)+

10.13*

Deferred Compensation Plan.+

10.14

Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2006, among Charles River Laboratories International, Inc., the Subsidiary Borrowers party thereto, the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as syndication agent, and Bank of America, N.A., Citizens Bank of Massachusetts and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as co-documentation agents.(8)

10.15

Charles River Laboratories International, Inc. 2007 Incentive Plan(9)+

10.16

Form of Performance Award Agreement(9)+

10.17

Form of Stock Option Award Agreement Under 2007 Incentive Plan(11)+

10.18

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Under 2007 Incentive Plan(11)+

21.1*

Subsidiaries of Charles River Laboratories International, Inc.

23.1*

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.



Exhibit No.

Description

31.1*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

31.2*

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

32.1*

Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.

*

Filed
herewith.

+

Management
contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

(1)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-35524), as amended, filed June 23, 2000.

(2)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on December 5, 2008.

(3)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on June 12, 2006.

(4)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed on March 14, 2006.

(5)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed on October 20, 2004.

(6)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed on November 1, 2004.

(7)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed March 9, 2005.

(8)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on August 2, 2006.

(9)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed on May 9, 2007.

(10)

Previously
filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, filed on November 5, 2001.

(11)

Previously
filed as exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed February 20, 2008.

109