ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide a description of Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders (Annual Report), which is incorporated by reference.

This report includes information for the following separate registrants:

§

Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities

§

San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E)

§

Pacific Enterprises (PE), the holding company for Southern California Gas Company

§

Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)

References in this report to "we," "our" and "our company" are to Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries, collectively.  SDG&E and SoCalGas are collectively referred to as the Sempra Utilities.

Sempra Energy has five separately managed reportable segments consisting of SDG&E, SoCalGas, Sempra Commodities, Sempra Generation and Sempra Pipelines & Storage. Sempra Commodities, Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage, and an additional business unit, Sempra LNG (liquefied natural gas) are subsidiaries of Sempra Global. Sempra Global is a holding company for most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation.

SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas are subsidiaries of Sempra Energy. Sempra Energy directly or indirectly owns all the common stock and substantially all of the voting stock of each of the three companies.

Sempra Commodities - Pending Transaction

In April 2008, Sempra Energy formed a partnership with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) to purchase and operate our commodities-marketing businesses, which generally comprised the Sempra Commodities segment. In November 2009, RBS announced its intention to divest its interest in this joint venture, RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (RBS Sempra Commodities), following a directive from the European Commission to dispose of certain assets. On February 16, 2010, Sempra Energy, RBS and the partnership entered into an agreement with J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corporation (J.P. Morgan Ventures), whereby J.P. Morgan Ventures will purchase the following businesses from the joint venture:

§

the global oil, metals, coal, emissions (other than emissions related to the joint venture’s North American power business), plastics, agricultural commodities and concentrates commodities trading and marketing business

§

the European power and gas business

§

the investor products business

RBS Sempra Commodities will retain its North American power and natural gas trading businesses and its retail energy solutions business. These businesses have historically generated 40 to 60 percent of total earnings of the businesses in the partnership, and have averaged more than 50 percent.

Subject to obtaining various regulatory approvals and other conditions, the transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2010. J.P. Morgan Ventures will pay an aggregate purchase price equal to the estimated book value at closing of the businesses purchased, generally computed on the basis of international financial reporting standards (as adopted by the European Union), plus an amount equal to $468 million. Sempra Energy will be entitled to 53 -1/3 percent of the aggregate purchase price, and RBS will be entitled to 46-2/3 percent of the aggregate purchase price.

In connection with the transaction, we and RBS entered into a letter agreement to negotiate, prior to closing of the transaction, definitive documentation to amend certain provisions of the Limited Liability Partnership Agreement dated April 1, 2008 between Sempra Energy and RBS. As RBS continues to be obligated to divest its remaining interest in the partnership, the letter agreement also provides for negotiating the framework for the entertaining bids for the remaining part of the partnership’s business.

We provide further discussion about RBS Sempra Commodities and the pending transaction with J.P. Morgan Ventures in Notes 3, 4, 6 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The partnership is also discussed in "Sempra Global – Competition - Sempra Commodities" below.





COMPANY WEBSITES

Company website addresses are:

Sempra Energy – http://www.sempra.comSDG&E – http://www.sdge.comPE/SoCalGas – http://www.socalgas.com

We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The charters of the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of Sempra Energy’s board of directors (the board), the board's corporate governance guidelines, and Sempra Energy's code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers are posted on Sempra Energy's website.

SDG&E and SoCalGas make available free of charge via a hyperlink on their websites their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Printed copies of all of these materials may be obtained by writing to our Corporate Secretary at Sempra Energy, 101 Ash Street, San Diego, CA 92101-3017.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The most significant government regulation affecting Sempra Energy is the regulation of our utility subsidiaries.

California Utility Regulation

The Sempra Utilities are regulated in California by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), the California Energy Commission (CEC), and the California Air Resources Board (CARB).

The California Public Utilities Commission:

§

consists of five commissioners appointed by the Governor of California for staggered, six-year terms.

§

regulates SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in "United States Utility Regulation."

§

has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric transmission, electric distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in California.

§

conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines, and conducts investigations into various matters, such as deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies.

§

regulates the interactions and transactions of the Sempra Utilities with Sempra Energy and its other affiliates.

We provide further discussion in Notes 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

SDG&E is also subject to regulation by the CEC, which publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories.  Based upon these forecasts, the CEC:

§

determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs;

§

sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects;

§

promotes energy conservation programs;

§

maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and

§

certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within California.

The CEC conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in California. This forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. This analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the Sempra Utilities’ long-term investment decisions.

The State of California requires certain California electric retail sellers, including SDG&E, to deliver 20 percent of their 2010 retail demand from renewable energy sources. The rules governing this requirement, administered by both the CPUC and the CEC, are generally known as the Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) Program. Certification of a generation project by the CEC as an Eligible

Renewable Energy Resource (ERR) allows the purchase of output from a generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the RPS Program requirements. This may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by Sempra Generation, particularly from California utilities. Final certification as an ERR for Sempra Generation’s El Dorado solar generation facility was approved in June 2009.

In September 2009, the Governor of California issued an Executive Order which directs the California utilities to procure 33 percent of their electric energy requirements from renewable sources by 2020. This Executive Order designates the CARB as the agency responsible for establishing the compliance rules and regulations for this program.

CaliforniaAssembly Bill 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, assigns responsibility to CARB for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The bill requires CARB to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective GHG emission reductions, including a statewide GHG emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of GHG emissions. CARB is a department within the California Environmental Protection Agency, an organization which reports directly to the Governor's Office in the Executive Branch of California State Government.  As the CARB formulates its plan, provisions of the plan may apply to the Sempra Utilities.

United States Utility Regulation

The Sempra Utilities are also regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).

In the case of SDG&E, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, the uniform systems of accounts, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale.

In the case of SoCalGas, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the uniform systems of accounts.

The NRC oversees the licensing, construction and operation of nuclear facilities in the United States, including the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), in which SDG&E owns a 20-percent interest. NRC regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. Periodically, the NRC requires that newly developed data and techniques be used to reanalyze the design of a nuclear power plant and, as a result, may require plant modifications as a condition of continued operation.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage operates Mobile Gas Service Corporation (Mobile Gas), a small natural gas distribution utility serving Southwest Alabama that is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC).  The FERC regulates Mobile Gas’ interstate transportation of natural gas, the uniform systems of accounts, and rates of depreciation.

Local Regulation Within the U.S.

SoCalGas has natural gas franchises with the 243 separate counties and cities in its service territory. These franchises allow SoCalGas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. Some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2010 to 2048.

SDG&E has

§

electric franchises with the two counties and the 26 cities in its electric service territory, and

§

natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory.

These franchises allow SDG&E to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. Some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2012 to 2035.

Sempra Generation, Sempra LNG and Sempra Pipelines & Storage have operations or development projects in Alabama, Arizona, California, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nevada, Texas, and Hawaii. These entities are subject to state and local laws, and to regulations in the states in which they operate.

Other Regulation

RBS Sempra Commodities is subject to regulation by the U.K. Financial Services Authority, the New York Mercantile Exchange, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the FERC, the London Metals Exchange, NYSE Euronext, the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank and the National Futures Association.



In the United States, the FERC regulates Sempra Generation’s, Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s and Sempra LNG’s operations.  Sempra Pipelines & Storage also owns an interest in the Rockies Express Pipeline, a natural gas pipeline which operates in several states in the United States and is subject to regulation by the FERC.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Bay Gas Storage Company (Bay Gas) is regulated by the APSC and its intrastate storage contracts are subject to APSC approval. Bay Gas provides long-term services for customers that include storage and transportation of natural gas from interstate and intrastate sources. As an intrastate facility, Bay Gas is regulated by the FERC as a 311 facility, and the FERC has also approved market-based rates for interstate storage services and cost-based rates for transportation services.

Several of our segments operate in Mexico as follows:

§

Sempra Generation owns and operates a natural gas-fired power plant in Baja California, Mexico

§

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Mexican utilities build and operate natural gas distribution systems in Mexicali, Chihuahua, and the La Laguna-Durango zone in north-central Mexico

§

Sempra Pipelines & Storage transports gas between the U.S. border and Baja California, Mexico

§

Sempra LNG owns and operates the Energía Costa Azul LNG receipt terminal located in Baja California, Mexico

These operations are subject to regulation by the Comisión Reguladora de Energía and by the labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in Mexico.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage also has investments in South America that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate.

Licenses and Permits

The Sempra Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets. Because these permits, authorizations and licenses require periodic renewal, the Sempra Utilities are continuously regulated by the granting agencies.

Our other subsidiaries are also required to obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in the normal course of business. Some of these permits, authorizations and licenses require periodic renewal.

SempraGeneration and its subsidiaries obtain a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities, and in connection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Mexican subsidiaries obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their natural gas distribution and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s U.S. operations obtain licenses and permits for natural gas storage facilities and pipelines.

Sempra LNG obtains licenses and permits for the construction and operation of LNG facilities.

We describe other regulatory matters in Notes 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

CALIFORNIA NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

SoCalGas and SDG&E sell, distribute, and transport natural gas. SoCalGas purchases and stores natural gas for itself and SDG&E on a combined portfolio basis and provides natural gas storage services for others. The Sempra Utilities’ resource planning, natural gas procurement, contractual commitments, and related regulatory matters are discussed below. We also provide further discussion in the Annual Report in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and in Notes 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Customers

For regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. Core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. Noncore customers at SoCalGas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, large commercial, industrial, and enhanced oil recovery customers. Noncore customers at SDG&E consist primarily of electric generation, and large commercial and industrial customers.

Most core customers purchase natural gas directly from SoCalGas or SDG&E. While core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the Sempra Utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. Noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements.

In 2009, SoCalGas added 27,000 new customer natural gas meters at a growth rate of 0.5 percent; in 2008, it added 41,000 new meters at a growth rate of 0.7 percent. In 2009, SDG&E added 4,200 new customer natural gas meters at a growth rate of 0.5 percent; in

2008, it added 3,000 new meters at a growth rate of 0.4 percent. We expect levels to remain low in 2010, and both SoCalGas and SDG&E expect new meter growth in 2010 to be comparable to that in 2009.

Natural Gas Procurement and Transportation

SoCalGaspurchases natural gas under short-term and long-term contracts for the Sempra Utilities’ core customers. SoCalGas purchases natural gas from Canada, the U.S. Rockies and the southwestern U.S. to meet customer requirements and maintain pipeline reliability. It also purchases some California natural gas production and additional supplies delivered directly to California for its remaining requirements. Natural gas prices for substantially all contracts are based on published monthly bid-week indices.

To ensure the delivery of the natural gas supplies to its distribution system and to meet the seasonal and annual needs of customers, SoCalGas has entered into firm interstate pipeline capacity contracts that require the payment of fixed reservation charges to reserve firm transportation rights. Interstate pipeline companies, primarily El Paso Natural Gas Company, Transwestern Pipeline Company, and Kern River Gas Transmission Company, provide transportation services into SoCalGas' intrastate transmission system for supplies purchased by SoCalGas or its transportation customers from outside of California. The FERC regulates the rates that interstate pipeline companies may charge for natural gas and transportation services.

SoCalGas has natural gas transportation contracts with various interstate pipelines. These contracts expire on various dates between 2010 and 2025.

Natural Gas Storage

SoCalGas provides natural gas storage services for core, noncore and non-end-use customers. The Sempra Utilities’ core customers are allocated a portion of SoCalGas' storage capacity. SoCalGas offers the remaining storage capacity for sale to others through an open bid process. The storage service program provides opportunities for these customers to purchase and store natural gas when natural gas costs are low, usually during the summer, thereby reducing purchases when natural gas costs are expected to be higher. This program allows customers to better manage their fuel procurement and transportation needs.

Demand for Natural Gas

Growth in the demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the Southern California economy, prices of alternative energy products, environmental regulations, renewable energy, legislation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. External factors such as weather, the price of electricity, electric deregulation, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, and general economic conditions can also result in significant shifts in demand and market price.

The Sempra Utilities face competition in the residential and commercial customer markets based on the customers' preferences for natural gas compared with other energy products. In the noncore industrial market, some customers are capable of securing alternate fuel supplies from other suppliers which can affect the demand for natural gas. The Sempra Utilities’ ability to maintain their respective industrial market shares is largely dependent on the relative spread between delivered energy prices.

Natural gas demand for electric generation within Southern California competes with electric power generated throughout the western U.S. Natural gas transported for electric generating plant customers may be significantly affected to the extent that regulatory changes and electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the Sempra Utilities’ respective service areas. We provide additional information regarding electric industry restructuring in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Short-Term Demand.The demand for natural gas by electric generators is influenced by a number of factors, including:

§

the availability of alternative sources of generation; for example, the availability of hydroelectricity is highly dependent on precipitation in the western U.S. and Canada;

§

the performance of other generation sources in the western U.S., including nuclear and coal, renewable energy and other natural gas facilities outside the service area; and

§

the changes in end-use electricity demand; for example, natural gas use generally increases during extended heat waves.

Long-Term Demand. The demand for natural gas used to generate electricity will be influenced by additional factors such as the location of new power plants and the development of renewable energy resources. Recently, more generation capacity has been constructed outside the Sempra Utilities' service area than within it. This new generation will displace the output of older, less-efficient local generation, thereby reducing the use of natural gas for local electric generation. Over the next few years, however, the construction of smaller natural gas-fired peaking and other electric generation facilities within the Sempra Utilities’ respective service areas are expected to result in a slight overall increase in the demand for local natural gas for electric generation.



The natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and revenues generally are greater during the winter heating months. As is prevalent in the industry, SoCalGas injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (usually April through October) for withdrawal from storage during the winter months (usually November through March) when customer demand is higher.

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Customers

SDG&E’s service area covers 4,100 square miles. At December 31, 2009, SDG&E had 1.4 million customer meters consisting of:

§

1,225,500 residential

§

146,700 commercial

§

500 industrial

§

2,000 street and highway lighting

§

4,500 direct access

In 2009, SDG&E added 7,000 new electric customer meters at a growth rate of 0.5 percent; in 2008, it added 7,400 new customers at a growth rate of 0.5 percent. Based on forecasts of new housing starts, SDG&E expects that its new meter growth rate in 2010 will be comparable to that in 2009.

Resource Planning and Power Procurement

SDG&E's resource planning, power procurement and related regulatory matters are discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 15, 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Electric Resources

The supply of electric power available to SDG&E for resale is based on CPUC-approved purchased-power contracts currently in place with its various suppliers, its Palomar and Miramar generating facilities, its 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS and purchases on a spot basis. This supply as of December 31, 2009 is as follows:





SDG&E ELECTRIC RESOURCES

SupplierSourceExpiration dateMegawatts (MW)

PURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS:

Department of Water Resources (DWR)-

allocated contracts:

JP MorganNatural gas2010325

Sunrise Power Co. LLCNatural gas2012570

Other (5 contracts)Natural gas/Wind2011 to 2013259

Total1,154

Other contracts with Qualifying Facilities (QFs)(1):

Applied Energy Inc.Cogeneration2019116

Yuma CogenerationCogeneration202456

Goal Line Limited PartnershipCogeneration202550

Other (18 contracts)Cogeneration2009(2) and thereafter48

Total270

Other contracts with renewable sources:

Oasis Power PartnersWind201960

KumeyaayWind202550

Covanta DelanoBio-mass201749

Iberdrola RenewablesWind201825

WTE/FPLWind201917

PacificCorpWind2010200

NaturEnerWind2024210

Other (9 contracts)Bio-gas/Hydro2012 to 202233

Total644

Other long-term and tolling contracts(3):

Cabrillo Power I, LLCNatural gas2010964

Dynegy South Bay Holdings, LLCNatural gas2009(4)704

Otay Mesa Energy Center LLCNatural gas2019573

Portland General Electric (PGE)Coal201389

EnernocDemand response/

Distributed generation201625

Total2,355

Total contracted4,423



GENERATION:

PalomarNatural gas560

SONGSNuclear430

MiramarNatural gas96

Total generation1,086

TOTAL CONTRACTED AND GENERATION5,509

(1)A QF is a generating facility which meets the requirements for QF status under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. It includes cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes. It also includes small power production facilities, which are generating facilities whose primary energy source is renewable (hydro, wind, solar, etc.), biomass, waste, or geothermal resources. Small power production facilities are generally limited in size to 80 MW.

(2)One 25-MW contract expired effective January 1, 2010.

(3)Tolling contracts are purchased-power agreements under which we provide the fuel for generation to the energy supplier.

(4)This contract expired effective January 1, 2010.



Under the contract with PGE, SDG&E pays a capacity charge plus a charge based on the amount of energy received and/or PGE's non-fuel costs. Costs under most of the contracts with QFs are based on SDG&E's avoided cost. Charges under the remaining contracts are for firm and as-available energy, and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacity. The prices under these contracts are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated.



Natural Gas Supply

SDG&E buys natural gas under short-term contracts for its Palomar and Miramar generating facilities and for the Cabrillo Power I, LLC and Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC tolling contracts. Purchases are from various southwestern U.S. suppliers and are primarily based on published monthly bid-week indices. SDG&E's natural gas is delivered from southern California border receipt points to the SoCal CityGate pool via firm access rights which expire on March 31, 2011.  The natural gas is then delivered from the SoCal CityGate pool to the generating facilities through SoCalGas' pipelines in accordance with a transportation agreement that expires on May 31, 2011. SDG&E has also contracted with SoCalGas for natural gas storage from April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010.

SDG&E also buys natural gas as the California DWR's limited agent for the DWR-allocated contracts. Most of the natural gas deliveries for the DWR-allocated contracts are transported through the Kern River Gas Transmission Pipeline under a long-term transportation agreement. The DWR is financially responsible for the costs of gas and transportation.

SONGS

SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, which is located south of San Clemente, California. SONGS consists of two operating nuclear generating units: Units 2 and 3. Unit 1 is permanently shut down and is being decommissioned. The city of Riverside owns 1.79 percent of Units 2 and 3, and Southern California Edison (Edison), the operator of SONGS, owns the remaining interest.

Units 2 and 3 began commercial operation in August 1983 and April 1984, respectively. SDG&E's share of the capacity is 214 MW of Unit 2 and 216 MW of Unit 3.

Unit 1 was removed from service in November 1992 when the CPUC issued a decision to permanently shut it down. The decommissioning of Unit 1 is now in progress and its spent nuclear fuel is being stored on site in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) licensed by the NRC.

SDG&E has fully recovered the capital invested through December 31, 2003 in SONGS and earns a return only on subsequent capital additions, including SDG&E’s share of costs associated with the steam generator replacement project, which is currently in progress.

We provide additional information concerning the SONGS units and nuclear decommissioning below in "Environmental Matters" and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Notes 7, 15 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Nuclear Fuel Supply

The nuclear fuel supply cycle includes materials and services (uranium oxide, conversion of uranium oxide to uranium hexafluoride, uranium enrichment services, and fabrication of fuel assemblies) performed by others under various contracts that extend through 2020. The supply contracts are index-priced and provide nuclear fuel supply through 2022, the expiration of SONGS’ NRC license.

Spent fuel from SONGS is being stored on site in both the ISFSI and spent fuel pools. With the completion of the current phase of Unit 1 decommissioning, the site has adequate space to build ISFSI storage capacity through 2022. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, SDG&E entered into a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for spent-fuel disposal. Under the agreement, the DOE is responsible for the ultimate disposal of spent fuel from SONGS. SDG&E pays the DOE a disposal fee of $1.00 per megawatt-hour of net nuclear generation, or $3 million per year. It is uncertain when the DOE will begin accepting spent fuel from any nuclear generation facility.

We provide additional information concerning nuclear-fuel costs and the storage and movement of spent fuel in Notes 15 and 17, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Power Pools

SDG&E is a participant in the Western Systems Power Pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement with utilities and power agencies located throughout the United States and Canada. More than 300 investor-owned and municipal utilities, state and federal power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers share power and information in order to increase efficiency and competition in the bulk power market. Participants are able to make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the FERC.

Transmission Arrangements

SDG&E's 500-kV Southwest Powerlink transmission line, which is shared with Arizona Public Service Company and Imperial Irrigation District, extends from Palo Verde, Arizona to San Diego, California. SDG&E's share of the line is 1,162 MW, although it can be less under certain system conditions.



Mexico's Baja California system is connected to SDG&E's system via two 230-kV interconnections with firm capability of 408 MW in the north to south direction and 800 MW in the south to north direction.

In December 2008, the CPUC approved SDG&E’s Sunrise Powerlink, a new 120-mile, 500-kV transmission line between the Imperial Valley and the San Diego region. The project is in the pre-construction phase, including final engineering, design and procurement activities. SDG&E expects the line to be in commercial operation in 2012. The Sunrise Powerlink is designed to have a path rating of 1,000 MW. We provide further discussion in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Transmission Access

The National Energy Policy Act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. The FERC approved the California investor-owned utilities' (IOUs) transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the Independent System Operator (ISO) in 1998. We provide additional information regarding transmission issues in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

RATES AND REGULATION – SEMPRA UTILITIES

We provide information concerning rates and regulation applicable to the Sempra Utilities in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 1, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

SEMPRA GLOBAL

Sempra Global is a holding company for most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation. Sempra Global includes Sempra Commodities, Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage and Sempra LNG. We provide descriptions of these business units and information concerning their operations under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 1, 3, 4, 5, 17, 18 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Competition

Sempra Energy’s non-utility businesses are among many others in the energy industry providing similar products and services.  They are engaged in highly competitive activities that require significant capital investments and highly skilled and experienced personnel. Many of their competitors may have significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than Sempra Global.

Sempra Commodities

Sempra Commodities is primarily comprised of our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities, a joint venture formed in April 2008. This business unit also includes Sempra Rockies Marketing, which holds firm service capacity on the Rockies Express Pipeline.

All aspects of RBS Sempra Commodities’ business are intensely competitive and are expected to remain so. Sources of competition include the following:

§

other brokers and dealers,

§

investment banking firms,

§

energy companies, and

§

other companies that offer similar products and services in the U.S. and globally.

RBS Sempra Commodities’ competition is based on a number of factors, including transaction execution, financing, products and services, innovation, reputation and price.

RBS Sempra Commodities also faces intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. RBS Sempra Commodities’ ability to compete effectively will depend upon the ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate existing employees.

RBS Sempra Commodities’ competitors include Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan, Morgan Stanley and Barclay’s Capital.

The partnership is discussed in Notes 3, 4 and 20 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As we discuss above under “Description of Business,” on February 16, 2010, Sempra Energy, RBS and the partnership entered into an agreement to sell certain businesses within the partnership.

Sempra Generation

For sales of non-contracted power, Sempra Generation is subject to competition from energy marketers, utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers. For a number of years, natural gas has been the fuel of choice for new power generation

facilities for economic, operational and environmental reasons. While natural gas-fired facilities will continue to be an important part of the nation’s generation portfolio, some regulated utilities are now constructing units powered by renewable resources, often with subsidies or under legislative mandate. These utilities generally have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. This recovery allows them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.

When Sempra Generation sells power not subject to long-term contract commitments, it is exposed to market fluctuations in prices based on a number of factors, including the amount of capacity available to meet demand, the price and availability of fuel, and the presence of transmission constraints. Additionally, generation from Sempra Generation’s renewable energy assets are exposed to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, weather and hours of sunlight. Some of Sempra Generation’s competitors, such as electric utilities and generation companies, have their own generation capacity, including natural gas, coal and nuclear generation.  These companies, generally larger than Sempra Generation, may have a lower cost of capital and may have competitive advantages as a result of their scale and the location of their generation facilities.

Sempra Generation’s competitors include

§Edison Mission Energy§Reliant Energy§FPL Energy LLC§Mirant Energy§Calpine§Dynegy

Sempra Pipelines & Storage

Within its market area, Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s natural gas storage facilities and pipelines compete with other storage facilities and pipelines (both regulated and unregulated systems). It competes primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity, and connections to downstream markets.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s competitors include

§Iberdrola Renewables (Enstor)§Kinder Morgan§Spectra Energy§Enterprise Product Partners LP§Energy Transfer Partners LP§Boardwalk Pipeline Partners§Plains All-American LP§El Paso Corporation§The Williams Companies§TransCanada§Various independent midstream asset developers

Sempra LNG

New supplies to meet North America’s natural gas demand may be developed from a combination of the following sources:

§

existing producing basins in the United States, Canada, and Mexico;

§

frontier basins in Alaska, Canada, and offshore North America;

§

areas currently restricted from exploration and development due to public policies, such as areas in the Rocky Mountains and offshore Atlantic, Pacific and Gulf of Mexico coasts;

§

previously inaccessible or uneconomic natural gas reserves through the use of new extraction techniques; and

§

LNG imported into LNG receipt terminals in operation or under development in the United States, Canada and Mexico.

In addition, the demand for energy currently met by natural gas could alternatively be met by other energy forms such as coal, hydroelectric, oil, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and nuclear energy. Sempra LNG will, therefore, face competition from each of these energy sources.

Sempra LNG competes with other companies to construct and operate LNG receiving terminals and to purchase LNG. According to the FERC, as of December 31, 2009, there were 15 existing and operating LNG receipt terminals in North America. There are 3 LNG receipt terminals currently under construction. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, there were 63 LNG receipt terminals in 18 countries. There are also other proposed LNG receipt terminals worldwide with which Sempra LNG will compete to be the most economical delivery point for LNG supply of both long-term contracted and spot volumes.



Sempra LNG’s major domestic and international competitors include the following companies and their related LNG affiliates:

§Cheniere Energy, Inc.§Cheniere Energy Partners, L.P.§Excelerate Energy, LLC§Dominion Resources, Inc.§GDF Suez S.A.§Southern Union Company§El Paso Corporation§Royal Dutch Shell plc§Eni, S.p.A.§OAO Gazprom§Chevron Corporation§Statoil A.S.A.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We discuss environmental issues affecting us in Notes 15, 16 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. You should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions.

Hazardous Substances

In 1994, the CPUC approved the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism, allowing California's IOUs to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain Superfund sites. This mechanism permits the Sempra Utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. In addition, the Sempra Utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates.

At December 31, 2009, we had accrued estimated remaining investigation and remediation liabilities of $1.5 million at SDG&E and $27.9 million at SoCalGas, both related to hazardous waste sites for which the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism authorizes us to recover 90 percent of the costs. The accruals include costs for numerous locations, most of which had been manufactured-gas plants. This estimated cost excludes remediation costs of $5.9 million associated with SDG&E's former fossil-fuel power plants and other locations for which the cleanup costs are not being recovered in rates. We believe that any costs not ultimately recovered through rates, insurance or other means will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position.

We record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. In addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets.

Air and Water Quality

The transmission and distribution of natural gas require the operation of compressor stations, which are subject to increasingly stringent air-quality standards, such as those established by the CARB. We discuss these standards in "Government Regulation – California Utility Regulation" above. The Sempra Utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards.

In connection with the issuance of operating permits, SDG&E and the other owners of SONGS have an agreement with the California Coastal Commission to mitigate the environmental damage to the marine environment attributed to the cooling-water discharge from SONGS. SDG&E's share of the mitigation costs is estimated to be $47 million, of which $33 million had been incurred through December 31, 2009, and $14 million is accrued for the remaining costs through 2050. In 2008, an artificial kelp reef project was completed. The remaining costs are to complete a wetlands project and maintain both projects through 2050.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

Sempra Energy

NameAge(1)Position(1)(2)Donald E. Felsinger62Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerNeal E. Schmale63President and Chief Operating OfficerJavade Chaudhri57Executive Vice President and General CounselJessie J. Knight, Jr. (until April 3, 2010)(2)59Executive Vice President – External AffairsDebra L. Reed (effective April 3, 2010)(2)53Executive Vice PresidentMark A. Snell53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJoseph A. Householder54Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerCharles A. McMonagle (until July 1, 2010)(3)60Senior Vice President and TreasurerG. Joyce Rowland55Senior Vice President – Human Resources(1) Ages and, except as otherwise noted, positions are as of February 25, 2010.(2) On April 3, 2010, the following organizational changes will be effective:§Mr. Knight will become the Chief Executive Officer of SDG&E and relinquish his position as Executive Vice President – External Affairs of Sempra Energy.§Ms. Reed will become an Executive Vice President of Sempra Energy and relinquish her positions with SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.(3) Mr. McMonagle will retire effective July 1, 2010.



Each officer has been an officer of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years, except for Mr. Knight. Prior to joining Sempra Energy in 2006, Mr. Knight was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce since 1999.



SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas



NameAge(1)Position(1)(2)

SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY

Debra L. Reed (until April 3, 2010)(2)53Chairperson, President and Chief Executive Officer

Jessie J. Knight, Jr. (effective April 3, 2010)(2)59Chief Executive Officer

Michael R. Niggli60Chief Operating Officer

Michael R. Niggli (effective April 3, 2010)(2)60President and Chief Operating Officer

James P. Avery53Senior Vice President – Power Supply

J. Chris Baker50Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer

Lee Schavrien (until April 3, 2010)(2)55Senior Vice President – Regulatory and Finance

Lee Schavrien (effective April 3, 2010)(2)55Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative Affairs

Anne S. Smith (until April 3, 2010)(2)56Senior Vice President – Customer Services

W. Davis Smith (until April 3, 2010)(2)60Senior Vice President and General Counsel

W. Davis Smith (effective April 3, 2010)(2)60Vice President and General Counsel

Lee M. Stewart (until April 3, 2010)(2)64Senior Vice President – Gas Operations

Robert M. Schlax54Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer



PACIFIC ENTERPRISES

Debra L. Reed (until April 3, 2010)(2)53Chairperson, President and Chief Executive Officer

Michael W. Allman (effective April 3, 2010)(2)49President and Chief Executive Officer

Michael R. Niggli (until April 3, 2010)(2)60Chief Operating Officer

Anne S. Smith (effective April 3, 2010)(2)56Chief Operating Officer

Robert M. Schlax(3)54Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer



SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANY

Debra L. Reed (until April 3, 2010)(2)53Chairperson, President and Chief Executive Officer

Michael W. Allman (effective April 3, 2010)(2)49President and Chief Executive Officer

Michael R. Niggli (until April 3, 2010)(2)60Chief Operating Officer

Anne S. Smith (effective April 3, 2010)(2)56Chief Operating Officer

J. Chris Baker50Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer

Michael Gallagher (effective May 1, 2010)(4)45Senior Vice President – Operations

Lee Schavrien (until April 3, 2010)(2)55Senior Vice President – Regulatory and Finance

Lee Schavrien (effective April 3, 2010)(2)55Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative Affairs

Anne S. Smith (until April 3, 2010)(2)56Senior Vice President – Customer Services

W. Davis Smith (until April 3, 2010)(2)60Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Lee M. Stewart(2)(5)64Senior Vice President – Gas Operations

Robert M. Schlax(3)54Vice President Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer

(1) Ages and, except as otherwise noted, positions are as of February 25, 2010.

(2) On April 3, 2010, the following organizational changes will be effective:§Ms. Reed will become an Executive Vice President of Sempra Energy and relinquish her positions with SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas.§Mr. Knight will become the Chief Executive Officer of SDG&E and relinquish his position as Executive Vice President – External Affairs of Sempra Energy.§Mr. Niggli will become the President and remain the Chief Operating Officer of SDG&E and relinquish his positions with PE and SoCalGas.§Mr. Schavrien will become the Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative Affairs of SDG&E and SoCalGas.§Ms. Smith will become the Chief Operating Officer of PE and SoCalGas and relinquish her Senior Vice President positions with SDG&E and SoCalGas.§Mr. Smith will become Vice President and General Counsel of SDG&E and relinquish his positions with SoCalGas.§Mr. Allman will become the President and Chief Executive Officer of PE and SoCalGas and relinquish his position as Vice President of Sempra Energy.§Mr. Stewart will remain the Senior Vice President – Gas Operations of SoCalGas and relinquish his position with SDG&E.

(3) Mr. Schlax will remain the Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of SDG&E and relinquish his positions with PE and SoCalGas at a date yet to be determined.

(4) Mr. Gallagher will become the Senior Vice President – Operations of SoCalGas effective May 1, 2010.

(5) Mr. Stewart will retire from SoCalGas in late 2010.



Each executive officer of SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas has been an officer or employee of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years, except for Messrs. Knight, Schlax and Gallagher. Prior to joining Sempra Energy in 2006, Mr. Knight was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce since 1999. Prior to joining SDG&E in 2005, Mr. Schlax was Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Vice President of Finance of Mercury Air Group, Inc. since 2002. Prior to joining Sempra Energy in 2006, from 1999 through 2006, Mr. Gallagher was a partner and director of Sterling Energy Operations, LLC, which provides management consulting services to electric/power companies.



OTHER MATTERS

Employees of Registrants

As of December 31, each company had the following number of employees:



December 31,20092008Sempra Energy Consolidated13,83913,673SDG&E5,0674,833SoCalGas7,1367,188



Labor Relations

Field, technical and most clerical employees at SoCalGas are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America or the International Chemical Workers Union Council. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours, working conditions, and medical and other benefit plans expires on September 30, 2011.

Field employees and some clerical and technical employees at SDG&E are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours and working conditions is in effect through August 31, 2011. For these same employees, the agreement covering pension and savings plan benefits is in effect through December 4, 2010, and the agreement covering health and welfare benefits is in effect through December 31, 2011.



