ITEM 1. BUSINESS



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



We provide a description of Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders (Annual Report), which is attached as Exhibit 13.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference.



This report includes information for the following separate registrants:



§Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities



§San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E)



§Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)



References in this report to “we,” “our,” “us,” “our company” and “Sempra Energy Consolidated” are to Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities, collectively, unless otherwise indicated by the context.  SDG&E and SoCalGas are collectively referred to as the California Utilities. They are subsidiaries of Sempra Energy, and Sempra Energy indirectly owns all of the common stock and substantially all of the voting stock of each of the two companies.



Sempra Energy’s principal operating units are



§SDG&E and SoCalGas, which are separate, reportable segments;



§Sempra International, which includes our Sempra South American Utilities and Sempra Mexico reportable segments; and



§Sempra U.S. Gas & Power, which includes our Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas reportable segments.



During the fourth quarter of 2012, we revised the manner in which we make resource allocation decisions to our Sempra Mexico segment and assess its performance, as we discuss in Notes 16 and 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. As a result, we have reclassified certain amounts from Parent and Other, which contains interest and other corporate costs and certain holding company activities, to our Sempra Mexico segment. In accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), the historical segment disclosures have been restated to be consistent with the current presentation.



All references to “Sempra International,” “Sempra U.S. Gas & Power” and their respective reportable segments are not intended to refer to any legal entity with the same or similar name. Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power also own utilities which are not included in our references to the California Utilities. We provide financial information about all of our reportable segments and about the geographic areas in which we do business in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





COMPANY WEBSITES



Company website addresses are:



Sempra Energy – http://www.sempra.com



SDG&E – http://www.sdge.com



SoCalGas – http://www.socalgas.com



We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The charters of the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of Sempra Energy’s board of directors (the board), the board’s corporate governance guidelines, and Sempra Energy’s code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers are posted on Sempra Energy’s website.



SDG&E and SoCalGas make available free of charge via a hyperlink on their websites their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.



Printed copies of all of these materials may be obtained by writing to our Corporate Secretary at Sempra Energy, 101 Ash Street, San Diego, CA 92101-3017.



The information on the websites of Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas is not part of this report or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC, and is not incorporated herein by reference.





GOVERNMENT REGULATION



The most significant government regulation affecting Sempra Energy is the regulation of the California Utilities.





California State Utility Regulation



The California Utilities are regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), the California Energy Commission (CEC) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB).



The California Public Utilities Commission:



§consists of five commissioners appointed by the Governor of California for staggered, six-year terms.



§regulates SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in “United States Utility Regulation.”



§has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric generation, transmission and distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in California.



§conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines, and conducts investigations into various matters, such as deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies.



§regulates the interactions and transactions of the California Utilities with Sempra Energy and its other affiliates.



We provide further discussion in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



SDG&E is also subject to regulation by the CEC, which publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories.  Based upon these forecasts, the CEC:



§determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs;



§sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects;



§promotes energy conservation programs;



§maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and



§certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within California.



The CEC conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in California. This forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. This analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the California Utilities’ long-term investment decisions.



In 2010, the State of California required certain California electric retail sellers, including SDG&E, to deliver 20 percent of their retail energy sales from renewable energy sources. The rules governing this requirement, administered by both the CPUC and the CEC, are generally known as the Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) Program. In December 2011, California Senate Bill 2(1X) (33% RPS Program) went into effect, superseding the previous RPS program. The 33% RPS Program requires each California utility to procure 33 percent of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2020, with an average 20 percent required over the three-year period January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013; 25 percent by December 31, 2016; and 33 percent by December 31, 2020. We discuss this requirement as it applies to SDG&E in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Certification of a generation project by the CEC as an Eligible Renewable Energy Resource (ERR) allows the purchase of output from such generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the RPS Program requirements, if such purchase meets the provisions of California Senate Bill 2(1X). This may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by Sempra Renewables and Sempra Mexico, particularly from California utilities. Sempra Renewables’ Copper Mountain Solar 1 facility in Nevada, which includes the 10-MW solar facility formerly referred to as El Dorado Solar, is certified as an ERR. Sempra Renewables has also submitted an application for ERR certification for their Copper Mountain Solar 2 facility. We plan to obtain ERR certification for all of our renewable facilities operating in and/or providing power to California as they become operational.



CaliforniaAssembly Bill 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, assigns responsibility to CARB for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The bill requires CARB to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective GHG emission reductions, including a statewide GHG emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of GHG emissions. CARB is a department within the California Environmental Protection Agency, an organization that reports directly to the Governor’s Office in the Executive Branch of California State Government. We provide further discussion in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





United States Utility Regulation



The California Utilities are also regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT).



In the case of SDG&E, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, the uniform systems of accounts, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale.



In the case of SoCalGas, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the uniform systems of accounts.



The NRC oversees the licensing, construction and operation of nuclear facilities in the United States, including the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), in which SDG&E owns a 20-percent interest. NRC regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. Periodically, the NRC requires that newly developed data and techniques be used to reanalyze the design of a nuclear power plant and, as a result, may require plant modifications as a condition of continued operation. We provide further discussion of current SONGS matters involving the NRC in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The DOT has established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable for the California Utilities’ natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines. The DOT has certified the CPUC to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in California.





State and Local Regulation Within the U.S.



SoCalGas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and 233 cities in its service territory. These franchises allow SoCalGas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. Some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2013 to 2062.



SDG&E has



§electric franchises with the three counties and the 27 cities in or adjoining its electric service territory; and



§natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory.



These franchises allow SDG&E to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. Some natural gas and some electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range from 2015 to 2037.



Sempra Natural Gas also operates Mobile Gas Service Corporation (Mobile Gas), a natural gas distribution utility serving southwest Alabama that is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission. Mobile Gas has franchise agreements with the two counties and eight cities in its service territory, with fixed expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2033, which allow it to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas.



Sempra Renewables has operations or development projects in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, Nevada and Pennsylvania. Sempra Natural Gas develops and operates natural gas storage and related pipeline facilities in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi, operates its Mesquite natural gas generation facility in Arizona and has marketing operations in Texas. Sempra Natural Gas also operates Willmut Gas Company (Willmut Gas), a natural gas distribution utility serving Hattiesburg, Mississippi and regulated by the Mississippi Public Service Commission. These entities are subject to state and local laws, and to regulations in the states in which they operate.





Other U.S. Regulation



In the United States, the FERC, with ratemaking authority over sales of wholesale power and the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting authority for liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals, regulates Sempra Renewables’ and Sempra Natural Gas’ operations. Sempra Natural Gas also owns an interest in the Rockies Express Pipeline, a natural gas pipeline that operates in several states in the United States and is subject to regulation by the FERC. We discuss our investment in the pipeline further in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The FERC may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. Our LNG terminal in the United States is subject to market-based rates and terms of service. FERC-regulated rates at the following businesses are



§Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas: market-based for wholesale electricity sales



§Sempra Natural Gas: cost-based and market-based for the transportation and storage of natural gas, respectively



§Sempra Natural Gas: market-based for the receipt, storage, and vaporization of LNG and liquefaction of natural gas and the purchase and sale of LNG and natural gas



Sempra Natural Gas is also subject to DOT rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety.





Foreign Regulation



Our Sempra Mexico segment owns and operates the following in Mexico:



§a natural gas-fired power plant in Baja California, Mexico



§natural gas distribution systems in Mexicali, Chihuahua, and the La Laguna-Durango zone in north-central Mexico



§natural gas pipelines between the U.S. border and Baja California, Mexico and Sonora, Mexico. Sempra Mexico also owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with PEMEX (the Mexican state-owned oil company) that operates two natural gas pipelines and a propane system in northern Mexico



§the Energía Costa Azul LNG terminal located in Baja California, Mexico



These operations are subject to regulation by the Energy Regulatory Commission (Comisión Reguladora de Energía, or CRE) and by the labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in Mexico.



Sempra South American Utilities has two utilities in South America that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate. Chilquinta Energía S.A. (including its subsidiaries, Chilquinta Energía) is an electric distribution utility serving customers in the cities of Valparaiso and Viña del Mar in central Chile. Luz del Sur S.A.A. (including its subsidiaries, Luz del Sur) is an electric distribution utility in the southern zone of metropolitan Lima, Peru. These utilities serve primarily regulated customers, and their revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the National Energy Commission (Comisión Nacional de Energía, or CNE) in Chile and the Energy and Mining Investment Supervisory Body (Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión en Energía y Minería, or OSINERGMIN) of the National Electricity Office under the Ministry of Energy and Mines in Peru.





Licenses and Permits



The California Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, some of which may require periodic renewal.



Our other subsidiaries are also required to obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in the normal course of business. Some of these permits, authorizations and licenses require periodic renewal.



Sempra Mexico and Sempra South American Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their electric and natural gas distribution and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. The concession to operate from the Ministerio de Energía for both Chilquinta Energía’s and Luz del Sur’s distribution operations is for an indefinite term, not requiring renewal.



Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas obtain licenses and permits for the operation and expansion of LNG facilities, and the import and export of LNG and natural gas.



SempraRenewables obtains a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities, and in connection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.



SempraNatural Gas obtains a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities and natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, and in connection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.



Most of the permits and licenses associated with construction and operations within the Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas businesses are for periods generally in alignment with the construction cycle or life of the asset and in many cases greater than 20 years. We do not anticipate that our ongoing requirement to renew or extend shorter duration permits and licenses would have a material impact to the ongoing operations of these businesses.



We describe other regulatory matters in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





CALIFORNIA NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS



SoCalGas and SDG&E sell, distribute and transport natural gas. SoCalGas purchases and stores natural gas for its core customers and SDG&E’s core customers on a combined portfolio basis and provides natural gas storage services for others. The California Utilities’ resource planning, natural gas procurement, contractual commitments, and related regulatory matters are discussed below. We also provide further discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Customers



At December 31, 2012, SoCalGas had 5.8 million customer meters consisting of approximately:



§5,545,500 residential



§246,100commercial



§27,200industrial



§50 electric generation and wholesale



At December 31, 2012, SDG&E had approximately 860,000 natural gas customer meters consisting of approximately:



§827,000 residential



§28,600commercial



§3,600electric generation and transportation



For regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. Core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. Noncore customers at SoCalGas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, large commercial, industrial, and enhanced oil recovery customers. SoCalGas’ wholesale customers are primarily other investor-owned utilities (IOUs), including SDG&E, or municipally owned natural gas distribution systems. Noncore customers at SDG&E consist primarily of electric generation and large commercial and industrial customers.



Most core customers purchase natural gas directly from SoCalGas or SDG&E. While core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the California Utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. Noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements.



In 2012, SoCalGas added approximately 18,000 new connected natural gas customer meters, representing an annual growth rate of 0.3 percent; in 2011, it added approximately 15,000 new connected meters, representing an annual growth rate of 0.3 percent. SDG&E’s connected natural gas customer meters increased by approximately 5,000 in both 2012 and 2011, representing an annual growth rate of 0.6 percent in both years. Based on forecasts of new housing starts, SoCalGas and SDG&E each expects that its new meter annual growth rates in 2013 will be slightly higher than those in 2012.





Natural Gas Procurement and Transportation



SoCalGaspurchases natural gas under short-term and long-term contracts for the California Utilities’ core customers. SoCalGas purchases natural gas from Canada, the U.S. Rockies and the southwestern U.S. to meet its and SDG&E’s core customer requirements and maintain pipeline reliability. It also purchases some California natural gas production and additional supplies delivered directly to California for its remaining requirements. Purchases of natural gas are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices.



To ensure the delivery of the natural gas supplies to its distribution system and to meet the seasonal and annual needs of customers, SoCalGas has entered into firm interstate pipeline capacity contracts that require the payment of fixed reservation charges to reserve firm transportation rights. Pipeline companies, primarily El Paso Natural Gas Company, Transwestern Pipeline Company, Gas Transmission Northwest, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and Kern River Gas Transmission Company, provide transportation services into SoCalGas’ intrastate transmission system for supplies purchased by SoCalGas or its transportation customers from outside of California. These contracts expire on various dates between 2013 and 2028. The FERC regulates the rates that interstate pipeline companies may charge for natural gas and transportation services.





Natural Gas Storage



SoCalGas provides natural gas storage services for core, noncore and non-end-use customers. The California Utilities’ core customers are allocated a portion of SoCalGas’ storage capacity. SoCalGas offers the remaining storage capacity for sale to others, including SDG&E for its non-core customer requirements, through an open bid process. The storage service program provides opportunities for these customers to purchase and store natural gas when natural gas costs are low, usually during the summer, thereby reducing purchases when natural gas costs are expected to be higher. This program allows customers to better manage their natural gas procurement and transportation needs.







Demand for Natural Gas



Growth in the demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the Southern California economy, prices of alternative energy products, environmental regulations, renewable energy, legislation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. External factors such as weather, the price of electricity, electric deregulation, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, and general economic conditions can also result in significant shifts in market price, which may in turn impact demand.



The California Utilities face competition in the residential and commercial customer markets based on customers’ preferences for natural gas compared with other energy products. In the noncore industrial market, some customers are capable of securing alternate fuel supplies from other suppliers which can affect the demand for natural gas. The California Utilities’ ability to maintain their respective industrial market shares is largely dependent on the relative spread between delivered energy prices.



Natural gas demand for electric generation within Southern California competes with electric power generated throughout the western U.S. Natural gas transported for electric generating plant customers may be affected by the growth in renewable generation, the addition of more efficient gas technologies and to the extent that regulatory changes and electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the California Utilities’ respective service areas. The demand may also fluctuate due to volatility in the demand for electricity and the availability of competing supplies of electricity such as hydroelectric generation and other renewable energy sources. We provide additional information regarding the electric industry in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and revenues generally are greater during the winter heating months. As is prevalent in the industry, SoCalGas injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (usually April through October) for withdrawal from storage during the winter months (usually November through March) when customer demand is higher.







ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS





SDG&E





Customers



SDG&E’s service area covers 4,100 square miles. At December 31, 2012, SDG&E had 1.4 million customer meters consisting of approximately:



§1,245,900 residential



§147,400commercial



§500industrial



§2,100 street and highway lighting



§5,400direct access



SDG&E’s active electric customer meters increased by approximately 7,000 and 8,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing annual growth rates of 0.5 percent and 0.6 percent, respectively. Based on forecasting of new housing starts, SDG&E expects the number of active meters to increase in 2013 by approximately 11,000, representing a growth rate of 0.8 percent.





Resource Planning and Power Procurement



SDG&E’s resource planning, power procurement and related regulatory matters are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to SDG&E for resale is based on CPUC-approved purchased-power contracts currently in place with its various suppliers, its wholly owned generating facilities, its 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS (when SONGS returns to service) and purchases on a spot basis. This supply as of December 31, 2012 is as follows:







SDG&E ELECTRIC RESOURCES

SupplierSourceExpiration dateMegawatts (MW)

PURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS(1):

Department of Water Resources (DWR)-

allocated contracts:

Shell Wind (2 contracts)Wind2013104

Other contracts with Qualifying Facilities (QFs)(2):

Applied Energy Inc.Cogeneration2019 and thereafter114

Yuma CogenerationCogeneration202457

Goal Line Limited PartnershipCogeneration202550

Other (2 contracts)Cogeneration2015 and thereafter27

Total248

Other contracts with renewable sources:

Pacific WindWind2032140

Iberdrola RenewablesWind2032100

Mesa WindWind201330

NaturEnerWind2023 to 2024210

Oasis Power PartnersWind201960

KumeyaayWind202550

Iberdrola RenewablesWind201825

WTE/FPLWind201817

Covanta DelanoBiomass201749

Blue Lake PowerBiomass202511

Calpine GeysersGeothermal201425

Southern California EdisonVarious201329

Other (15 contracts)Bio-gas/Hydro/Wind2013 to 203141

Total787

Other long-term and tolling contracts(3):

Olivenhain-Hodges Pump StorageHydro/Pump Storage203740

Otay Mesa Energy Center LLCNatural gas2019603

Orange Grove Energy L.P.Natural gas2035100

El Cajon Energy, LLCNatural gas203549

Portland General Electric Company (PGE)Coal201389

EnerNOCDemand response/

Distributed generation201625

Total906

Total contracted2,045



GENERATION:

Palomar Energy CenterNatural gas560

SONGS (4)Nuclear430

Miramar Energy CenterNatural gas96

Desert Star Energy CenterNatural gas495

Cuyamaca Peak Energy PlantNatural gas42

Total generation1,623

TOTAL CONTRACTED AND GENERATION3,668

(1)Contracts covering 2013 - 2037.

(2)A QF is a generating facility which meets the requirements for QF status under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. It includes cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes. It also includes small power production facilities, which are generating facilities whose primary energy source is renewable (hydro, wind, solar, etc.), biomass, waste, or geothermal resources. Small power production facilities are generally limited in size to 80 MW.

(3)Tolling contracts are purchased-power agreements under which we provide the fuel for generation to the energy supplier.

(4)SONGS is currently offline for an extended period of time, as we discuss below.





Under the contract with Portland General Electric Company (PGE), SDG&E pays a capacity charge plus a charge based on the amount of energy received and/or PGE’s non-fuel costs. Costs under most of the contracts with QFs are based on SDG&E’s avoided cost. Charges under the remaining contracts are for firm and as-generated energy, and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacity. The prices under these contracts are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated.





Natural Gas Supply



SDG&E buys natural gas under short-term contracts for its Palomar, Miramar, Desert Star and Cuyamaca Peak generating facilities and for the Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC, Orange Grove Energy L.P., and El Cajon Energy, LLC tolling contracts. Purchases are from various southwestern U.S. suppliers and are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices. SDG&E’s natural gas is typically delivered from Southern California border receipt points to the SoCal CityGate pool via backbone transmission system rights which expire on September 30, 2014.  The natural gas is then delivered to the generating facilities through SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s pipeline systems in accordance with a transportation agreement that expires on May 31, 2013. SDG&E will be executing a new two-year transportation agreement that will be effective June 1, 2013. SDG&E has also contracted with SoCalGas for natural gas storage from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2014.





SONGS



SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, which is located south of San Clemente, California. SONGS consists of two operating nuclear generating units. The city of Riverside owns 1.79 percent and Southern California Edison Company (Edison), the operator of SONGS, owns the remaining interest of 78.21 percent.



The two units began commercial operation in August 1983 and April 1984, respectively. SDG&E’s share of the capacity from the two units is 430 MW. In 2005, the CPUC authorized a project to install four new steam generators in Units 2 and 3 at SONGS and remove and dispose of their predecessor generators. Edison completed the installation of these steam generators in 2010 and 2011 for Units 2 and 3, respectively. In January 2012, a water leak occurred in the Unit 3 steam generator which caused it to be shut down. Edison conducted inspection testing and determined that the water leak was the result of excessive wear from tube-to-tube contact. During a planned maintenance and refueling outage on the Unit 2 steam generators in February 2012, inspections found high levels of unexpected wear in some heat transfer tubes of the Unit 2 steam generators. As of December 31, 2012, both Units 2 and 3 remain offline. The units cannot be restarted until plans have been approved by the NRC. In October 2012, Edison submitted a restart plan for Unit 2 to the NRC. Unit 3 will remain offline while Edison continues to study the potential solutions that are unique to that unit. We discuss the current SONGS outage, inspection and repair issues and related regulatory matters in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



A third unit was removed from service in November 1992. Decommissioning of that unit is largely complete, with the remaining work to be done in the future when the remaining two units are decommissioned. Its spent nuclear fuel is being stored on site in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) licensed by the NRC.



SDG&E has fully recovered the capital it invested in SONGS through December 31, 2003 and earns a return only on subsequent capital additions, including SDG&E’s share of costs associated with the steam generator replacement project, completed in 2011.



In November 2012, the CPUC issued an Order Instituting Investigation (OII) into the extended outages of Units 2 and 3. The OII requires that all costs related to SONGS incurred since January 1, 2012 be tracked in a separate memorandum account, with all revenues collected in recovery of such costs subject to refund, and will address the extent to which such revenues, if any, should be refunded to rate payers.



As we discuss in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” herein, our influence may be limited over businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest, including SONGS. We provide additional information concerning the SONGS units and nuclear decommissioning below in “Environmental Matters” and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 6, 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Nuclear Fuel Supply



The nuclear fuel supply cycle includes materials and services performed by others under various contracts that extend through 2020. Fuel supply contracts are index-priced and provide nuclear fuel through 2022, the expiration of SONGS’ NRC license.



Spent fuel from SONGS is being stored on site in both the ISFSI and spent fuel pools. With the completion of the current phase of decommissioning, the site has adequate space to build ISFSI storage capacity through 2022. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, SDG&E entered into a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for spent-fuel disposal. Under the agreement, the DOE is responsible for the ultimate disposal of spent fuel from SONGS. SDG&E pays the DOE a disposal fee of $1.00 per megawatt-hour of net nuclear generation, or approximately $3 million per year when SONGS is operating at normal capacity. It is uncertain when the DOE will begin accepting spent fuel from any nuclear generation facility.



We provide additional information concerning nuclear fuel costs and the storage and movement of spent fuel in Notes 6 and 15, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Power Pool



SDG&E is a participant in the Western Systems Power Pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement with utilities and power agencies located throughout the United States and Canada. More than 300 investor-owned and municipal utilities, state and federal power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers share power and information in order to increase efficiency and competition in the bulk power market. Participants are able to make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the FERC.





Transmission Arrangements



SDG&E’s 500-kilovolt (kV) Southwest Powerlink transmission line, which is shared with Arizona Public Service Company and Imperial Irrigation District, extends from Palo Verde, Arizona to San Diego, California. SDG&E’s share of the line is 1,162 MW, although it can be less under certain system conditions.



SDG&E’s Sunrise Powerlink is a 500-kV transmission line project built by SDG&E and designed to deliver more than 1,000 MW of power from the Imperial Valley to the San Diego region. The line was placed in service in June 2012. We provide further discussion of Sunrise Powerlink in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Mexico’s Baja California system is connected to SDG&E’s system via two 230-kV interconnections with combined capacity up to 408 MW in the north to south direction and 800 MW in the south to north direction, although it can be less under certain system conditions.



Edison’s transmission is connected to SDG&E’s system at SONGS via five 230-kV transmission lines with a total firm capacity up to 2,500 MW into SDG&E’s system, although it can be less under certain system conditions.





Transmission Access



The National Energy Policy Act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. The FERC approved the California IOUs’ transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the Independent System Operator in 1998. We provide additional information regarding transmission issues in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Chilquinta Energía





Customers



Chilquinta Energía is an electric distribution utility serving approximately 620,000 customers in the cities of Valparaiso and Viña del Mar in central Chile, with a main service area covering 4,400 square miles. At December 31, 2012, its customers consisted of approximately:



§576,000 residential



§36,000 commercial



§1,000 industrial



§5,000 street and highway lighting



§5,000 agricultural



In Chile, customers are also classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on installed capacity. Regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is less than 500 kilowatts (kW). Non-regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is greater than 2,000 kW. Customers with installed capacity between 500 kW and 2,000 kW may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. Non-regulated customers can buy power from other sources, such as directly from the generator.



In 2012, Chilquinta Energía added approximately 14,000 new customers at a growth rate of 2.3 percent. Chilquinta Energía expects that its customer growth rate in 2013 will be comparable to that in 2012.



Chilquinta Energía’s electric energy sales increased by approximately 178,000 megawatt hours (MWh) and 171,000 MWh in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 7 percent in both years. Based on expected customer and overall economic growth in Chile, Chilquinta Energía expects its annual electric sales to increase in 2013 by approximately 210,000 MWh, representing a growth rate of 8 percent.







Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to Chilquinta Energía comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with its various suppliers and its generating facilities. This supply as of December 31, 2012 is as follows:





CHILQUINTA ENERGÍA ELECTRIC RESOURCESSupplierSource(2)Expiration dateMegawatts (MW)PURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS(1):EndesaThermal2020 to 202447GenerThermal2023 to 2024125TecnoredThermal20134Total176EndesaHydro2020 to 2024161GenerHydro2023 to 202461Total222EndesaWind2020 to 20243Total contracted401GENERATION:Small generation plants(3)Thermal8TOTAL CONTRACTED AND GENERATION409(1)Contracts covering 2013 - 2024.(2)Contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal.(3)Compañía de Petróleos de Chile Copec S.A. supplies diesel fuel to six small generation plants using trucks from different stations throughout the region.





Power Generation System



The Centers for Economic Load Dispatch (Centros de Despacho Económico de Carga, or CDEC) are private organizations in charge of coordinating the operation of the electricity system.  Each interconnected system is subject to its own CDEC; there is a CDEC-SIC (Sistema Interconectado Central, Central Interconnected System) and CDEC-SING (Sistema Interconectado del Norte Grande, Northern Interconnected System) for the central and the northern interconnected system, respectively.  Chilquinta Energía operates within CDEC-SIC.





Transmission System and Access



Chile’s transmission system is divided into two parts, main transmission (sistema de transmisión troncal) and the sub-transmission (sistema de subtransmisión). In Chile, main transmission lines must be greater than or equal to 220 kV. Chilquinta Energía uses Transelec, a third party, for all of its main transmission. In general, sub-transmission systems operate at voltage levels greater than 23 kV and lower than or equal to 110 kV. Sub-transmission systems, including those owned by Chilquinta Energía, are comprised of infrastructure that is interconnected to the electricity system to supply non-regulated or regulated end-users located in the distribution service area.





Luz del Sur



Customers



Luz del Sur is an electric distribution utility serving approximately 950,000 customers in the southern zone of metropolitan Lima, Peru, with a main service area covering 1,160 square miles. At December 31, 2012, its customers consisted of approximately:



§893,000 residential



§56,000 commercial



§4,000 industrial



§5,000 street and highway lighting



§1,000 agricultural



In Peru, customers are also classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on capacity demand. Regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is less than 200 kW and their energy supply is considered public service. Customers with capacity demand between 200 kW and 2,500 kW may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated.



In 2012, Luz del Sur added approximately 33,000 new customers at a growth rate of 3.6 percent. Luz del Sur expects that its customer growth rate in 2013 will be comparable to that in 2012.



Luz del Sur’s electric energy sales increased by approximately 359,000 MWh and 351,000 MWh in 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 6 percent in both years. Based on expected customer and overall economic growth in Peru, Luz del Sur expects its annual electric energy sales to increase in 2013 by approximately 467,000 MWh, representing a growth rate of 7 percent.





Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to Luz del Sur comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with various suppliers, as well as purchases made on a spot basis. This supply as of December 31, 2012 is as follows:





LUZ DEL SUR ELECTRIC RESOURCESSupplierSource(2)Expiration dateMegawatts (MW)PURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS(1):Bilateral contracts:CelepsaHydro201465Eepsa S.A.Thermal201325Edegel S.A.A.Hydro/Thermal201350Chinango S.A.C.Hydro201323Kallpa Generación S.A.Thermal2013300EnerSur S.A.Hydro/Thermal2013159Total622Auction contracts:Edegel S.A.A.Hydro/Thermal2013123EnerSur S.A.Hydro/Thermal2013227Kallpa Generación S.A.Thermal2013106Chinango S.A.C.Hydro201318Termoselva S.R.L.Thermal201364DE-Egenor S. en C. por A.Hydro/Thermal201361Eepsa S.A.Thermal201380H. Huanchor S.A.C.Hydro20135Total684TOTAL CONTRACTED1,306(1)Contracts covering 2013 - 2014.(2)Contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal.





Power Generation System



The Sistema Eléctrico Interconectado Nacional (SEIN) is the Peruvian national interconnected system.  Peru also has several isolated regional and smaller systems that provide electricity to specific areas. The OSINERGMIN is an autonomous public regulatory entity that controls and enforces compliance with legal and technical regulations related to electric activities, sets tariffs and supervises the bidding processes required by distribution companies to purchase energy from generators.



TheCommittee of Economic Operation of the System (Comité de Operación Económica del Sistema Interconectado Nacional, orCOES) coordinates the operation and dispatch of electricity of the SEIN, and manages the short-term market. The COES oversees generation, transmission and distribution companies, as well unregulated customers with a demand higher than 200 kW.



Transmission System and Access



Transmission lines in Peru are divided into principal and secondary systems. The principal system lines are accessible by all generators and allow the flow of energy through the national grid. The secondary system lines connect principal transmission with the network of distribution companies or connect directly to certain final customers. The transmission company receives tariff revenues and collects tolls based on a charge per unit of electricity.





RATES AND REGULATION – UTILITIES



We provide information concerning rates and regulation applicable to our utilities in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 1 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





SEMPRA INTERNATIONAL AND SEMPRA U.S. GAS & POWER



Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power contain most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation. In addition to the discussion of our South American utilities above, we provide descriptions of these operating units’ segments and information concerning their operations in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 1, 3, 4, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Competition



Sempra Energy’s non-utility businesses are among many others in the energy industry providing similar products and services. They are engaged in highly competitive activities that require significant capital investments and highly skilled and experienced personnel. Among these competitors there may be significant variation in financial, personnel and other resources compared to Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power.



Generation – Renewables



Sempra Renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity through its development of and investments in wind and solar generation facilities. For sales of non-contracted renewable energy, Sempra Renewables competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, and other energy service companies. The number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. Also, recently enacted regulatory initiatives designed to enhance energy consumption from renewable resources for regulated utility companies may increase competition from these types of institutions. These utilities may have a lower cost of capital than most independent renewable power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. This recovery allows them to build, buy and upgrade renewable generation projects without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.  Additionally, generation from Sempra Renewables’ renewable energy assets is exposed to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, inclement weather and hours of sunlight.



Our renewable energy competitors include, among others:



§BP§Exelon Energy§Iberdrola Renewables§MidAmerican Energy§NextEra Energy Resources§NRG Energy



Generation – Natural Gas



For sales of non-contracted power, Sempra Natural Gas is subject to competition from energy marketers, utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers. For a number of years, natural gas has been the fuel of choice for new power generation facilities for economic, operational and environmental reasons. While natural gas-fired facilities will continue to be an important part of the nation’s generation portfolio, some regulated utilities are now constructing units powered by renewable resources, often with subsidies or under legislative mandate. These utilities may have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. This recovery may allow them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.



When Sempra Natural Gas sells power not subject to long-term contract commitments, it is exposed to market fluctuations in prices based on a number of factors, including the amount of capacity available to meet demand, the price and availability of fuel, and the presence of transmission constraints. Some of our competitors, such as electric utilities and generation companies, have their own generation capacity, including natural gas, coal and nuclear generation.  These companies, generally larger than our segments engaged in the natural gas business, may have a lower cost of capital and may have competitive advantages as a result of their scale and the location of their generation facilities.



Our natural gas generation competitors include, among others:



§Calpine§NextEra Energy Resources§Dynegy§NRG Energy



Because Sempra Mexico sells the power that it generates at its Termoeléctrica de Mexicali plant into California, it is also impacted by these competitive factors.





Natural Gas Pipelines and Storage Facilities



Within its market area, Sempra Natural Gas’ and Sempra Mexico’s pipelines businesses and Sempra Natural Gas’ storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated storage facilities and pipelines. They compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets.



Sempra Natural Gas’ competitors include, among others:



§AES Corporation§Boardwalk Pipeline Partners§Duke Energy§Enbridge, Inc.§Endesa§Energy Transfer Partners§Enstor§Enterprise Product Partners§Kinder Morgan§NiSource, Inc.§Phillips 66§Plains All-American§Spectra Energy§Tallgrass Energy Partners, L.P.§TransCanada§The Williams Companies



Sempra Mexico’s natural gas pipeline competitors include, among others:



§EDF Energy§Elecnor§Fermaca§GDF SUEZ§Kinder Morgan§Mitsubishi§Mitsui§PEMEX (MGI)§Samsung§TransCanada



LNG



New supplies to meet North America’s natural gas demand may be developed from a combination of the following sources:



§previously inaccessible or uneconomic natural gas reserves through hydraulic fracturing (natural gas recovery from shale formations) and other new exploration, drilling and production techniques;



§existing producing basins in the United States, Canada and Mexico;



§frontier basins in Alaska, Canada and offshore North America;



§areas currently restricted from exploration and development due to public policies, such as areas in the Rocky Mountains and offshore Atlantic, Pacific and Gulf of Mexico coasts;



§LNG imported into LNG terminals in operation or under development in the United States, Canada and Mexico; and



§biogas recovery from landfills and livestock operations.



In addition, the demand for energy currently met by natural gas could be met by other energy forms such as coal, hydroelectric, oil, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and nuclear energy. Our LNG businesses will, therefore, face competition from companies that supply each of these energy sources.



From time to time, our LNG businesses compete with other companies that operate LNG receiving terminals, purchase and sell LNG and purchase and sell natural gas. As of December 31, 2012, there were 16 existing and operating LNG receipt terminals in North America. Worldwide, there are 94 existing and operating LNG receipt terminals in 26 countries. There are also other proposed LNG receipt terminals worldwide with which, if developed, our LNG businesses would compete to be the most economical delivery point for LNG supply of both long-term contracted and spot volumes.





Our current LNG businesses’ major domestic and international competitors include, among others, the following companies and their related LNG affiliates:



§BG§Gas Natural Fenosa§BP§Gazprom§Cheniere Energy§GDF SUEZ§Chevron§Kinder Morgan§ConocoPhillips§Petronas§Dominion Resources§Qatar Petroleum§Energy Transfer Partners§Repsol§Eni§Royal Dutch Shell§Excelerate Energy§Statoil§ExxonMobil§Total S.A.



Sempra Natural Gas is currently progressing with plans for a development project to utilize its Cameron LNG terminal for the liquefaction of natural gas and export of LNG. The objective is to obtain long-term contracts for liquefaction services that allow us to fully utilize our existing regasification infrastructure while minimizing our future additional capital investment. The liquefaction facility will utilize Cameron LNG’s existing facilities, including two marine berths, three LNG storage tanks, and vaporization capability of 1.5 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day. In January 2012, the DOE approved Cameron LNG’s application for a license to export LNG to Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries. The authorization to export LNG to countries with which the U.S. does not have an FTA is pending review by the DOE.



Prospective liquefaction customers of Cameron LNG compete globally to market and sell LNG to end users including gas and electric utilities located in LNG importing countries around the world. By providing liquefaction services to Cameron LNG’s customers, Cameron LNG would indirectly be competing with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the world LNG market. These competitors are located in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Africa, South America, Australia and Europe.



Our planned LNG liquefaction business’s major domestic and international competitors include, among others, the following companies and their related LNG affiliates:



§BG§Kogas§BP§Mitsubishi§Cheniere Energy§Mitsui§Chevron§Petronas§China National Petroleum Company§Qatar Petroleum§ConocoPhillips§Santos§Dow Chemical§Shell§ExxonMobil§Total S.A.§GDF SUEZ§Woodside§Kinder Morgan





ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS



We discuss environmental issues affecting us in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. You should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions.





Hazardous Substances



In 1994, the CPUC approved the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism, allowing California’s IOUs to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain Superfund sites. This mechanism permits the California Utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. In addition, the California Utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates.



At December 31, 2012, we had accrued estimated remaining investigation and remediation liabilities of $0.7 million at SDG&E and $15.9 million at SoCalGas, both related to hazardous waste sites for which the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism applies, as described above. The accruals include costs for numerous locations, most of which had been manufactured-gas plants at SoCalGas. This estimated cost excludes remediation costs of $0.2 million associated with SDG&E’s former fossil-fuel power plants and other locations for which the cleanup costs are not being recovered in rates. We believe that any costs not ultimately recovered through rates, insurance or other means will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition of Sempra Energy, SDG&E or SoCalGas.



We record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. In addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets.





Air and Water Quality



The electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air-quality and greenhouse gas standards, such as those established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the CARB. We discuss these standards in “Government Regulation – California Utility Regulation” above. The California Utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards.



In connection with the issuance of operating permits, SDG&E and the other owners of SONGS have an agreement with the California Coastal Commission to mitigate environmental impacts to the marine environment attributed to the cooling-water discharge from SONGS. SDG&E’s share of the mitigation costs is estimated to be $48 million, of which $38 million had been incurred through December 31, 2012, and $10 million is accrued for the remaining costs through 2050. Artificial kelp reef, fish hatchery and wetlands restoration projects are complete, but continue to be studied until the California Coastal Commission accepts the projects. The remaining costs are to maintain the projects through 2050.







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS





Sempra Energy



NameAge(1)Position(1)Debra L. Reed56Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfficerMark A. Snell56PresidentJavade Chaudhri60Executive Vice President and General CounselJoseph A. Householder57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerTrevor I. Mihalik46Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerG. Joyce Rowland58Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion(1) Ages and positions are as of February 26, 2013.





With the exception of Mr. Mihalik, each executive officer has been an officer of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years. Before joining Sempra Energy in July 2012, Mr. Mihalik served as Senior Vice President of Finance for the past two years and as Vice President—Controller for the prior four years, in each case at Iberdrola Renewables Holdings, Inc., a diversified renewables and natural gas company.





SDG&E and SoCalGas



NameAge(1)Position(1)SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANYJessie J. Knight, Jr.62Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael R. Niggli63President and Chief Operating OfficerJames P. Avery56Senior Vice President – Power SupplyJ. Chris Baker53Senior Vice President – Strategic Planning and Technology and Chief Information OfficerLee Schavrien58Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative AffairsW. Davis Smith63Senior Vice President and General CounselRobert M. Schlax57Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and TreasurerSOUTHERN CALIFORNIA GAS COMPANYAnne S. Smith59Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerDennis V. Arriola52President and Chief Operating OfficerJ. Chris Baker53Senior Vice President – Strategic Planning and Technology and Chief Information OfficerErbin B. Keith52Senior Vice President and General CounselLee Schavrien58Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative AffairsRobert M. Schlax57Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer(1) Ages and positions are as of February 26, 2013.





With the exception of Mr. Arriola, each executive officer of SDG&E and SoCalGas has been an officer or employee of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for at least the last five years. Mr. Arriola was a Senior Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of SDG&E and SoCalGas from September 2006 to November 2008, and held numerous management positions with Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries prior to that.  In November 2008, Mr. Arriola became a Senior Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of SunPower Corporation.  From April 2010 to March 2012, he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of SunPower.  In August 2012, he rejoined SoCalGas as President and Chief Operating Officer, and in December 2012 also joined the SoCalGas Board of Directors.





OTHER MATTERS





Employees of Registrants



As of December 31, each company had the following number of employees:





December 31,20122011Sempra Energy Consolidated(1)16,89316,298SDG&E4,9965,008SoCalGas7,7887,370(1)Excludes employees of variable interest entities as defined by U.S. GAAP.





Labor Relations





SoCalGas



Field, technical and most clerical employees at SoCalGas are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America or the International Chemical Workers Union Council (collectively “Union”) under a single collective bargaining agreement. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans was ratified on March 1, 2012, and is effective January 1, 2012 through September 30, 2015.





SDG&E



Field employees and some clerical and technical employees at SDG&E are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Provisions of the collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages are in effect through August 31, 2014 and through August 31, 2015, for hours and working conditions. For these same employees, the agreement covering pension and savings plan benefits is in effect through October 1, 2015, and the agreement covering health and welfare benefits is in effect through December 31, 2013.





Luz del Sur



Field, technical and administrative employees at Luz del Sur representing 37 percent of the total workforce are represented by the Unified Trade Union of Electricity Workers of Lima and Callao, and the Trade Union of Employees of Electrolima. A collective bargaining agreement signed on December 13, 2012 covers these employees and is also extended to 125 non-represented employees. It covers wages, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013.





Chilquinta Energía



Field, technical and administrative employees at Chilquinta Energía are represented by Labor Union Number 1 Chilquinta Energía, Litoral Labor Union and Tecnored Labor Union Number 1. The collective bargaining agreements for employees represented by these unions cover wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and are in effect through various dates in 2013.





Professional employees at Chilquinta Energía are represented by Group of University Graduates of Chilquinta Energía. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through August 31, 2013.





Sempra Mexico



At December 31, 2012, Sempra Mexico had 437 employees, of whom 413 provide operation and maintenance services to our facilities and are covered by various collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. Sempra Mexico’s collective bargaining agreements are negotiated on a facility-by-facility basis, and the compensation terms are adjusted on an annual basis, whereas all other terms are renegotiated every two years. The collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation by each facility on an annual basis with respect to wages, and otherwise on a bi-annual basis.





Mobile Gas



Field employees at Mobile Gas are represented by the United Steelworkers Union under a single collective bargaining agreement. The agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through November 30, 2013.



