ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

We provide a description of Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders (Annual Report), which is attached as Exhibit 13.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference.

This report includes information for the following separate registrants:

§Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities

§San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E)

§Pacific Enterprises (PE), the holding company for Southern 
California Gas Company

§Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)

References in this report to "we," "our," "us," and "our company" are to Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities, collectively, unless otherwise indicated by the context.  SDG&E and SoCalGas are collectively referred to as the Sempra Utilities.

Sempra Energy has six separately managed reportable segments consisting of SDG&E, SoCalGas, Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage, Sempra LNG (liquefied natural gas) and Sempra Commodities. Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage, Sempra LNG and Sempra Commodities are subsidiaries of Sempra Global. Sempra Global is a holding company for most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation.

SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas are subsidiaries of Sempra Energy. Sempra Energy directly or indirectly owns all the common stock and substantially all of the voting stock of each of the three companies.

Sempra Commodities

In April 2008, Sempra Energy formed a partnership with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) to purchase and operate our commodities-marketing businesses, which generally comprised the Sempra Commodities segment. In November 2009, RBS announced its intention to divest its interest in this joint venture, RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (RBS Sempra Commodities), following a directive from the European Commission to dispose of certain assets. In three separate transactions in 2010 and one in early 2011, we and RBS divested substantially all of the partnership’s businesses and assets.

We provide further disc
ussion about RBS Sempra Commodities and the transactions in Notes 3, 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

COMPANY WEBSITES

Company website addresses are:

Sempra Energy – http://www.sempra.comSDG&E – http://www.sdge.comPE/SoCalGas – http://www.socalgas.com

We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The charters of the audit, compensation and co
rporate governance committees of Sempra Energy’s board of directors (the board), the board's corporate governance guidelines, and Sempra Energy's code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers are posted on Sempra Energy's website.

SDG&E and SoCalGas make available free of charge via a hyperlink on their websites their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Printed copies of all of these materials may be obtained by writing to our Corporate Secretary at Sempra Energy, 101 Ash Street, San Diego, CA 92101-3017.

The information on the websites of Sempra Energy, SDG&E and PE/SoCalGas is not part of this report or any other report tha
t we file with or furnish to the SEC, and is not incorporated herein by reference.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

The most significant government regulation affecting Sempra Energy is the regulation of the Sempra Utilities.

California Utility Regulation

The Sempra Utilities are regulated in California by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), the California Energy Commission (CEC), and the California Air Resources Board (CARB).

The California Public Utilities Commission:

§consists of five commissioners appointed by 
the Governor of California for staggered, six-year terms (only four positions are currently filled).

§regulates SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in "United States Utility Regulation."

§has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric transmission, electric distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in California.

§conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines, 
and conducts investigations into various matters, such as deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies.

§regulates the interactions and transactions of the Sempra Utilities with Sempra Energy and its other affiliates.

We provide further discussion in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

SDG&E is also subject to regulation by the CEC, which publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories.  Based upon these forecasts, the CEC:

§determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs;

§sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects;

§promotes energy conservation programs;

§maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and

§certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within California.

The CEC conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in California. This forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead p
rices, and costs of transportation and distribution. This analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the Sempra Utilities’ long-term investment decisions.

The State of California requires certain California electric retail sellers, including SDG&E, to deliver 20 percent of their retail demand from renewable energy sources. The rules governing this requirement, administered by both the CPUC and the CEC, are generally known as the Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) Program. We discuss this requirement as it applies to SDG&E in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Certification of a generation project by the CEC as an Eligible Renewable Energy Resource (ERR) allows the purchase of output from a generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the RPS Program requirements. This may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by Sempra Generation, particularly from Cal
ifornia utilities. Final certification as an ERR for Sempra Generation’s El Dorado Solar generation facility was approved in June 2009. Sempra Generation has filed for ERR certification of its Copper Mountain Solar facility in Nevada.

CaliforniaAssembly Bill 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, assigns responsibility to CARB for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The bill requires CARB to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective GHG emission reductions, including a statewide GHG emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of GHG emissions. CARB is a department within the California Environmental Protection Agency, an organization which reports directly to the Governor's Office in the Executive Branch of California State Government. In September 2010, CARB adopted a requir
ement known as the California Renewable Energy Standard (RES), which obligates California utilities to procure 33 percent of their annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2020. CARB has not yet issued the final version of formal regulations articulating the requirement or detailing how the RES will be implemented.



United States Utility Regulation

The Sempra Utilities are also regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC).

In the case of SDG&E, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates
 of return on transmission investment, the uniform systems of accounts, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale.

In the case of SoCalGas, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the uniform systems of accounts.

The NRC oversees the licensing, construction and operation of nuclear facilities in the United States, including the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), in which SDG&E owns a 20-percent interest. NRC regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. Periodically, the NRC requires that newly developed data and techniques be used to reanalyze the design of a nuclear power plant and, as a result, may require plant modifications as a condition of continued operation.

The Department of Transportation (DOT) has 
established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable for the Sempra Utilities’ natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines. The DOT has certified the CPUC to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in California.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage operates Mobile Gas Service Corporation (Mobile Gas), a natural gas distribution utility serving southwest Alabama that is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC).

Local Regulation Within the U.S.

SoCalGas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and 232 cities in its service territory. These franchises allow SoCalGas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiratio
n date. Some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2011 to 2048.

SDG&E has

§electric franchises with the two counties and the 26 cities in its electric service territory, and

§natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory.

These franchises allow SDG&E to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. Some natural gas franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2012 to 2035, and some electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range 
from 2012 to 2018.

Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage and Sempra LNG have operations or development projects in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Louisiana, Mississippi, Nevada, and Texas. These entities are subject to state and local laws, and to regulations in the states in which they operate.

Other Regulation

In the United States, the FERC, with ratemaking authority over wholesale sales of power and the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting authority for LNG terminals, regulates Sempra Generation’s, Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s and Sempra LNG’s operations.  Sempra Pipelines & Storage also owns an interest in the Rockies Express Pipeline, a natural gas pipeline which operates in several states in the United States and is subje
ct to regulation by the FERC. Intrastate storage at Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Bay Gas Storage Company (Bay Gas) is also regulated by the APSC.

The FERC may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. Our LNG terminal in the United States is subject to market-based rates and terms of service. FERC regulated rates at the following businesses are

§Sempra Generation: market-based for wholesale electricity sales.

§Sempra Pipelines & Storage: cost-based and market-based for the transportation and storage of natural gas, respectively.

§Sempra LNG: Market-based for the receipt, storage and vaporization of LNG and the purchase and sale of natural gas.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage is also subject to DOT rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety.

Several of our segments operate in Mexico as follows:

§Sempra Generation owns and operates a natural gas-fired power plant in Baja California, Mexico

§

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Mexican utilities build and operate natural gas distribution systems in Mexicali, Chihuahua, and the La Laguna-Durango zone in north-central Mexico

§Sempra Pipelines & Storage transports gas between the U.S. border and Baja California, Mexico and Sonora, Mexico. Sempra Pipelines & Storage also owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with PEMEX (the Mexican state-owned oil company) that operates two natural gas pipelines and a propane system in northern Mexico

§Sempra LNG owns and operates the Energía Costa Azul LNG receipt terminal located in Baja California, Mexico

These operations are subject to regulation by the Comisión Reguladora de Energía and by the labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in Mexico.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage also has investments
 in South America that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate.

Licenses and Permits

The Sempra Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, some of which may require periodic renewal.

Our other subsidiaries are also required to obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in the normal course of business. Some of these permits, authorizations and licenses require periodic renewal.

SempraGeneration and its subsidiaries obtain a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities, and in c
onnection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s Mexican subsidiaries obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their natural gas distribution and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s U.S. operations obtain licenses and permits for natural gas storage facilities and pipelines.

Sempra LNG obtains licenses and permits for the operation and expansion of LNG facilities, and the import and export of LNG and natural gas.

We describe other regulatory matters in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

CALIFORNIANATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

SoCalGas and SDG&E sell, distribute and transport natural gas. SoCalGas purchases and stores natural gas for itself and SDG&E on a combined portfolio basis and provides natural gas storage services for others. The Sempra Utilities’ resource planning, natural gas procurement, contractual commitments, and related regulatory matters are discussed below. We also provide further discussion in the Annual Report in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Customers

For regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. Core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. Noncore cus
tomers at SoCalGas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, large commercial, industrial, and enhanced oil recovery customers. Noncore customers at SDG&E consist primarily of electric generation and large commercial and industrial customers.

Most core customers purchase natural gas directly from SoCalGas or SDG&E. While core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the Sempra Utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. Noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements.

In 2010, SoCalGas added 24,000 new natural gas customer meters at a growth rate of 0.4 percent; in 2009, it added 27,000 new meters at a growth rate of 0.5 percent. SDG&E added 4,300 and 4,200 new natural gas customer meters in 2010 and 2009, respectively, both at a growt
h rate of 0.5 percent. Based on forecasts of new housing starts, SoCalGas and SDG&E each expects that its new meter growth rates in 2011 will be comparable to those in 2010.

Natural Gas Procurement and Transportation

SoCalGaspurchases natural gas under short-term and long-term contracts for the Sempra Utilities’ core customers. SoCalGas purchases natural gas from Canada, the U.S. Rockies and the southwestern U.S. to meet customer requirements and maintain pipeline reliability. It also purchases some California natural gas production and additional supplies delivered directly to California for its remaining requirements. Purchases of natural gas are primarily based on published monthly bid-week indices.

To ensure the delivery of the natural gas supplies to its distribution system and to meet the seasonal and annual needs 
of customers, SoCalGas has entered into firm interstate pipeline capacity contracts that require the payment of fixed reservation charges to reserve firm transportation rights. Interstate pipeline companies, primarily El Paso Natural Gas Company, Transwestern Pipeline Company, and Kern River Gas Transmission Company, provide transportation services into SoCalGas' intrastate transmission system for supplies purchased by SoCalGas or its transportation customers from outside of California. The FERC regulates the rates that interstate pipeline companies may charge for natural gas and transportation services.

SoCalGas has natural gas transportation contracts with various interstate pipelines. These contracts expire on various dates between 2011 and 2025.

Natural Gas Storage

SoCalGas provides natural gas storage services for core, noncore 
and non-end-use customers. The Sempra Utilities’ core customers are allocated a portion of SoCalGas' storage capacity. SoCalGas offers the remaining storage capacity for sale to others through an open bid process. The storage service program provides opportunities for these customers to purchase and store natural gas when natural gas costs are low, usually during the summer, thereby reducing purchases when natural gas costs are expected to be higher. This program allows customers to better manage their natural gas procurement and transportation needs.

Demand for Natural Gas

Growth in the demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the Southern California economy, prices of alternative energy products, environmental regulations, renewable energy, legislation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. External factors such as weather, the price of 
electricity, electric deregulation, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, and general economic conditions can also result in significant shifts in demand and market price.

The Sempra Utilities face competition in the residential and commercial customer markets based on customers' preferences for natural gas compared with other energy products. In the noncore industrial market, some customers are capable of securing alternate fuel supplies from other suppliers which can affect the demand for natural gas. The Sempra Utilities’ ability to maintain their respective industrial market shares is largely dependent on the relative spread between delivered energy prices.

Natural gas demand for electric generation within Southern California competes with electric power generated throughout the western U.S. Natural gas trans
ported for electric generating plant customers may be affected by the growth in renewable generation, the addition of more efficient gas technologies and to the extent that regulatory changes and electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the Sempra Utilities’ respective service areas. The demand may also fluctuate due to volatility in the demand for electricity and the availability of competing supplies of electricity such as hydro-electric generation and other renewable energy sources. We provide additional information regarding electric industry restructuring in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

The natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and revenues generally are greater during the winter heating months. As is prevalent in the industry, SoCalGas injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (usually April through October) for withdrawal from sto
rage during the winter months (usually November through March) when customer demand is higher.

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Customers

SDG&E’s service area covers 4,100 square miles. At December 31, 2010, SDG&E had 1.4 million customer meters consisting of:

§1,232,000 residential

§147,000 commercial

§500 industrial

§2,100 street and highway lighting

§4,500 direct access

SDG&E added 7,000 new electric customer meters at a growth rate of 0.5 percent in both 2010 and 2009. Based on forecasts of new housing starts, SDG&E expects that its new meter growth rate in 2011 will be comparable to that in 2010.

Resource Planning and Power Procurement

SDG&E's resource planning, power procurement and related regulatory matters are discussed in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 14, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Electric Resources

The supply of electric power available to SDG&E for resale is based on CPUC-approved purchased-power contracts currently in place with its various suppliers, its Palomar and Miramar generating facilities, its 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS and purchases on a spot basis. This supply as of December 31, 2010 is as follows:



SDG&E ELECTRIC RESOURCES

SupplierSourceExpiration dateMegawatts (MW)

PURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS: (1)

Department of Water Resources (DWR)-

allocated contracts:;

Sunrise Power Co. LLCNatural gas2012570

Other (5 contracts)Natural gas/Wind2011 to 2013259

Total829

Other contracts with Qualifying Facilities (QFs)(2):

Applied Energy Inc.Cogenera
tion2019114

Yuma CogenerationCogeneration202453

Goal Line Limited PartnershipCogeneration202550

Other (14 contracts)Cogeneration2011 and thereafter42

Total259

Other contracts with renewable sources:<
/p>

NaturEnerWind2023 to 2024210

Oasis Power PartnersWind201960

KumeyaayWind202550

Iberdrola RenewablesWind201825



WTE/FPL



Wind







Covanta DelanoBiomass201749

Blue Lake PowerBiomass202011

Calpine GeysersGeothermal201425

Other (9 contracts)Bio-gas/Hydro2012 to 202233

Total480

Other long-term and tolling contracts(3):

Otay Mesa Energy Center LLCNatural gas2019603

Cabrillo Power I, LLCNatural gas2011964

Orange Grove Energy L.P.Natural gas2035100

El Cajon Energy, LLCNatural gas203549

<
td style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:5.75pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:5.75pt; BACKGROUND:white; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px; HEIGHT:12pt" valign=bottom>Escondido Energy Center, LLCNatural gas201136

Portland General Electric (PGE)Coal201389

EnernocDemand response/&n
bsp;

Distributed generation201625

Total1,866

Total contracted3,434



GENERATION:

PalomarNatural gas560

SONGSNuclear430

MiramarNatural gas96

Total generation1,086

TOTAL CONTRACTED AND GENERATION4,520

(1)Contracts covering 2011 - 2035.

(2)A QF is a generating facility which meets the requirements for QF status under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. It includes cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes. It also includes small power production facilities, which are generating facilities whose primary energy source is renewable (hydro, wind, solar, etc.), biomass, waste, or geothermal resources. Small power production facilities are generally limited in size to 80 MW.

(3)Tolling contracts are purchased-power agreements under which we provide the fuel for generation to the energy supplier.



Under the contract with PGE, SDG&E pays a capacity charge plus a charge based on the amount of energy received and/or PGE's non-fuel costs. Costs under most of the contracts with QFs are based on SDG&E's avoided cost. Charges under the remaining contracts are for firm and as-available energy, and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacit
y. The prices under these contracts are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated.

Natural Gas Supply

SDG&E buys natural gas under short-term contracts for its Palomar and Miramar generating facilities and for the Cabrillo Power I, LLC, Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC, Orange Grove Energy L.P., and El Cajon Energy, LLC tolling contracts. Purchases are from various southwestern U.S. suppliers and are primarily based on published monthly bid-week indices. SDG&E's natural gas is delivered from southern California border receipt points to the SoCal CityGate pool via firm access rights which expire on September 30, 2011.  The natural gas is then delivered from the SoCal CityGate pool to the generating facilities through SoCalGas' pipelines in accordance with a transportation agreement that expires on May 31, 2011. SDG&E has also contracted with SoC
alGas for natural gas storage from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011.

SDG&E also buys natural gas as the California DWR's limited agent for the DWR-allocated contracts. Most of the natural gas deliveries for the DWR-allocated contracts are transported through the Kern River Gas Transmission Pipeline under a long-term transportation agreement. The DWR is financially responsible for the costs of gas and transportation.

SONGS

SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, which is located south of San Clemente, California. SONGS consists of two operating nuclear generating units. The city of Riverside owns 1.79 percent and Southern California Edison (Edison), the operator of SONGS, owns the remaining interest.

The two units began commercial operation in August 1983 and April 1984,
 respectively. SDG&E's share of the capacity from the two units is 430 MW.

A third unit was removed from service in November 1992. Decommissioning of that unit is largely complete, with the remaining work to be done in the future when the remaining two units are decommissioned. Its spent nuclear fuel is being stored on site in an independent spent fuel storage installation (ISFSI) licensed by the NRC.

SDG&E has fully recovered the capital invested through December 31, 2003 in SONGS and earns a return only on subsequent capital additions, including SDG&E’s share of costs associated with the steam generator replacement project, which is currently in progress.

We provide additional information concerning the SONGS units and nuclear decommissioning below in "Environmental Matters" and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations" and Notes 6, 14 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Nuclear Fuel Supply

The nuclear fuel supply cycle includes materials and services performed by others under various contracts that extend through 2020. Fuel supply contracts are index-priced and provide nuclear fuel through 2022, the expiration of SONGS’ NRC license.

Spent fuel from SONGS is being stored on site in both the ISFSI and spent fuel pools. With the completion of the current phase of decommissioning, the site has adequate space to build ISFSI storage capacity through 2022. Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, SDG&E entered into a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for spent-fuel disposal. Under the agreement, the DOE is responsible for the ultimate disposal of spent fuel f
rom SONGS. SDG&E pays the DOE a disposal fee of $1.00 per megawatt-hour of net nuclear generation, or $3 million per year. It is uncertain when the DOE will begin accepting spent fuel from any nuclear generation facility.

We provide additional information concerning nuclear-fuel costs and the storage and movement of spent fuel in Notes 14 and 16, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Power Pools

SDG&E is a participant in the Western Systems Power Pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement with utilities and power agencies located throughout the United States and Canada. More than 300 investor-owned and municipal utilities, state and federal power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers share power and information in order to increase eff
iciency and competition in the bulk power market. Participants are able to make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the FERC.

Transmission Arrangements

SDG&E's 500-kilovolt (kV) Southwest Powerlink transmission line, which is shared with Arizona Public Service Company and Imperial Irrigation District, extends from Palo Verde, Arizona to San Diego, California. SDG&E's share of the line is 1,162 MW, although it can be less under certain system conditions.

Mexico's Baja California system is connected to SDG&E's system via two 230-kV interconnections with firm capability of 408 MW in the north to south direction and 800 MW in the south to north direction.

SDG&E’s Sunrise Powerlink, a new 117-mile, 500-kV transmission
 line project that is designed to deliver up to 1,000 megawatts of energy from the Imperial Valley to the San Diego region, received approval from the CPUC in December 2008, the Bureau of Land Management in January 2009 and the U.S. Forest Service in July 2010. SDG&E commenced construction in the fall of 2010 and expects the line to be in commercial operation in the second half of 2012. We provide further discussion in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Transmission Access

The National Energy Policy Act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. The FERC approved the California investor-owned utilities' (IOUs) transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the Independent System Operator (ISO) in 1998. We provide additional information regarding transmission issues in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolida
ted Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

RATES AND REGULATION – SEMPRA UTILITIES

We provide information concerning rates and regulation applicable to the Sempra Utilities in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 1, 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

SEMPRA GLOBAL

Sempra Global is a holding company for most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation.Sempra Global includes Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storage, Sempra LNG and Sempra Commodities.We provide descriptions of these business units and information concerning their operations under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Notes 1, 3, 4, 16, 17 and 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

Competition

Sempra Energy’s non-utility businesses are among many others in the energy industry providing similar products and services. They are engaged in highly competitive activities that require significant capital investments and highly skilled and experienced personnel. Many of their competitors may have significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than Sempra Global.

Sempra Generation

For sales of non-contracted power, Sempra Generation is subject to competition from energy
 marketers, utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers. For a number of years, natural gas has been the fuel of choice for new power generation facilities for economic, operational and environmental reasons. While natural gas-fired facilities will continue to be an important part of the nation’s generation portfolio, some regulated utilities are now constructing units powered by renewable resources, often with subsidies or under legislative mandate. These utilities generally have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. This recovery allows them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.

When Sempra Generation sells power not subject to long-term contract commitments, it is exposed to market fluctuations in prices based on a number of facto
rs, including the amount of capacity available to meet demand, the price and availability of fuel, and the presence of transmission constraints. Additionally, generation from Sempra Generation’s renewable energy assets is exposed to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, weather and hours of sunlight. Some of Sempra Generation’s competitors, such as electric utilities and generation companies, have their own generation capacity, including natural gas, coal and nuclear generation.  These companies, generally larger than Sempra Generation, may have a lower cost of capital and may have competitive advantages as a result of their scale and the location of their generation facilities.

Sempra Generation’s competitors include

§Calpine§GenOn Energy§Dynegy§NextEra Energy Resources§Edison Mission Energy§NRG Energy





Sempra Pipelines & Storage

Within its market area, Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s natural gas storage facilities and pipelines compete with other regulated and unregulated storage facilities and pipelines. It competes primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity, and connections to downstream markets.

Sempra Pipelines & Storage’s competitors include

§Boardwalk Pipeline Partners§Plains All-American§El Paso§Spectra Energy§Energy Transfer Partners§TransCanada§Enterprise Product Partners§The Williams Companies§Iberdrola Renewables (Enstor)§Various independent midstream asset developers§Kinder Morgan



Sempra LNG

New supplies to meet North America’s natural gas demand may be developed from a combination of the following sources:

§e
xisting producing basins in the United States, Canada and Mexico;

§frontier basins in Alaska, Canada, and offshore North America;

§areas currently restricted from exploration and development due to public policies, such as areas in the Rocky Mountains and offshore Atlantic, Pacific and Gulf of Mexico coasts;

§previously inaccessible or uneconomic natural gas reserves through hydraulic fracturing (natural gas recovery from deep shale formations) and other new exploration, drilling and production techniques; and

§LNG imported into LNG receipt terminals in operation or under development in the United States, Canada and Mexico.

In addition, the demand for energy currently met by natural gas could be met by other energy forms such as coal, hydroelectric, oil, wind, solar, geothermal, biomass and nuclear energy. Sempra LNG will, therefore, face competition from companies who supply each of these energy sources.

Sempra LNG competes with other companies that operate LNG receiving terminals and purchase LNG. As of December 31, 2010, there were 16 existing and operating LNG receipt terminals in North America. There are two additional LNG receipt terminals currently under construction in North America. Worldwide, there are 82 existing and operating LNG receipt terminals in 21 countries. There are also other proposed LNG receipt terminals worldwide with which Sempra LNG will compete to be the most economical delivery
 point for LNG supply of both long-term contracted and spot volumes.

Sempra LNG’s major domestic and international competitors include the following companies and their related LNG affiliates:

§BG§Excelerate Energy§BP§Gas Natural Fenosa§Cheniere Energy§GDF Suez§Cheniere Energ
y Partners§OAO Gazprom§Chevron§Repsol§ConocoPhillips§Royal Dutch Shell§Dominion Resources§Southern Union§El Paso§Statoil§Eni



Sempra Commodities

Sempra Commodities consists of our investment in RBS Sempra Commodities, a joint venture formed in April 2008. As we discuss above under “Description of Business – Sempra Commodities,” substantially all of the joint venture’s businesses and assets were divested in 2010 and early 2011.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We discuss environmental issues affecting us in Notes 14, 15
 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. You should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions.

Hazardous Substances

In 1994, the CPUC approved the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism, allowing California's IOUs to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain Superfund sites. This mechanism permits the Sempra Utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. In addition, the Sempra Utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates.

At 
December 31, 2010, we had accrued estimated remaining investigation and remediation liabilities of $0.6 million at SDG&E and $20.2 million at SoCalGas, both related to hazardous waste sites for which the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism authorizes us to recover 90 percent of the costs. The accruals include costs for numerous locations, most of which had been manufactured-gas plants. This estimated cost excludes remediation costs of $5.4 million associated with SDG&E's former fossil-fuel power plants and other locations for which the cleanup costs are not being recovered in rates. We believe that any costs not ultimately recovered through rates, insurance or other means will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of Sempra Energy, SDG&E or PE/SoCalGas.

We record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. In addition, we record amounts autho
rized to be recovered in rates under the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets.

Air and Water Quality

The electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air-quality and greenhouse gas standards, such as those established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the CARB. We discuss these standards in "Government Regulation – California Utility Regulation" above. The Sempra Utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards.

In connection with the issuance of operating permits, SDG&E and the other owners of SONGS have an agreement with the California Coastal Commission to mitigate environmental impacts to the marine environment attributed to the cooling-water discharge from SONGS. SDG&E's share of the mitigation costs is 
estimated to be $53 million, of which $36 million had been incurred through December 31, 2010, and $17 million is accrued for the remaining costs through 2050. In 2008, an artificial kelp reef project was completed. The remaining costs are to complete a wetlands project and maintain both projects through 2050.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

Sempra Energy

Nam
eAge(1)Position(1)Donald E. Felsinger63Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerNeal E. Schmale64President and Chief Operating OfficerJavade Chaudhri58Executive Vice President and General CounselDebra L. Reed54Executive Vice PresidentMark A. Snell54Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial OfficerJoseph A. Householder55Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerG. Joyce Rowland56Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Diversity and Inclusion(1) Ages and positions are as of February 24, 2011.



Each executive officer has been an officer of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years.



SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas

NameAge(1)Position(1)San Diego Gas & Electric CompanyJessie J. Knight, Jr.60Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMichael R. Niggli61President and Chief Operating OfficerJames P. Avery54Senior Vice President – Power SupplyJ. Chris Baker51Senior Vice President – Support Services and Chief Information OfficerLee Schavrien56Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative AffairsW. Davis Smith61Senior Vice President and General CounselRobert M. Schlax55Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and TreasurerPacific EnterprisesMichael W. Allman50Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerAnne S. Smith57Chief Operating OfficerRobert M. Schlax55Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Of
ficer and TreasurerSouthern California Gas CompanyMichael W. Allman50Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerAnne S. Smith57Chief Operating OfficerJ. Chris Baker51Senior Vice President – Suppor
t Services and Chief Information OfficerMichael P. Gallagher46Senior Vice President – Customer Service and OperationsErbin B. Keith50Senior Vice President – External Affairs and General CounselLee Schavrien56Senior Vice President – Finance, Regulatory and Legislative Affairs<
pre>Robert M. Schlax55Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer(1) Ages and positions are as of February 24, 2011.



Each executive officer of SDG&E, PE and SoCalGas has been an officer or employee of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years, except for Messrs. Knight and Gallagher. Prior to joining Sempra Energy in 2006, Mr. Knight was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce since 1999. Prior to joining Sempra Energy in 2006, from 1999 through 2006, Mr. Gallagher was a partner and director of Sterling Energy Operations, LLC, which provides management consulting services to electric/power companies.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees of Registrants

As of December 31, each company had the following number of employees:

December 31,20102009Sempra Energy Consolidated13,50413,839SDG&E4,9705,067SoCalGas7,0677,136



Labor Relations

Field, technical and most clerical employees at SoCalGas are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America or the International Chemical Workers Union Council. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours, working conditions, and medical and other benefit plans expires on September 30, 2011.

Field employees and some clerical and technical employees at SDG&E are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours and working conditions is in effect through August 31, 2011. For these same employees, the agreement covering pension and savings plan benefits is in effect through December 4, 2012, and the agreement covering health and welfar
e benefits is in effect through December 31, 2011.



