ITEM 1. BUSINESS



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS



We provide a description of Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and additional information by reporting segment in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both in the 2014 Annual Report to Shareholders (Annual Report), which is attached as Exhibit 13.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.



This report includes information for the following separate registrants:



§Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities



§San Diego Gas & Electric Company (SDG&E)



§Southern California Gas Company (SoCalGas)



References in this report to “we,” “our,” “us,” “our company” and “Sempra Energy Consolidated” are to Sempra Energy and its consolidated entities, collectively, unless otherwise indicated by the context. SDG&E and SoCalGas are collectively referred to as the California Utilities. They are subsidiaries of Sempra Energy, and Sempra Energy indirectly owns all of the capital stock of SDG&E and all of the common stock and substantially all of the voting stock of SoCalGas.



Sempra Energy’s principal operating units are



§SDG&E and SoCalGas, which are separate, reportable segments;



§Sempra International, which includes our Sempra South American Utilities and Sempra Mexico reportable segments; and



§Sempra U.S. Gas & Power, which includes our Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas reportable segments.



All references to “Sempra International,” “Sempra U.S. Gas & Power” and their respective reportable segments are not intended to refer to any legal entity with the same or similar name. Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power also own utilities which are not included in our references to the California Utilities. We provide financial information about all of our reportable segments and about the geographic areas in which we do business in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





COMPANY WEBSITES



Company website addresses are



Sempra Energy – http://www.sempra.com



SDG&E – http://www.sdge.com



SoCalGas – http://www.socalgas.com



We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The charters of the audit, compensation and corporate governance committees of Sempra Energy’s board of directors (the board), the board’s corporate governance guidelines, and Sempra Energy’s code of business conduct and ethics for directors and officers are posted on Sempra Energy’s website.



SDG&E and SoCalGas make available free of charge via a hyperlink on their websites their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.



Printed copies of all of these materials may be obtained by writing to our Corporate Secretary at Sempra Energy, 101 Ash Street, San Diego, CA 92101-3017. Beginning July 2015, our Corporate Secretary can be reached at Sempra Energy, 488 8thAvenue, San Diego, CA 92101-3017.



The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Copies of these reports, proxy and information statements and other information may also be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at certified@sec.gov, or by writing the SEC’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.



The information on the websites of Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas is not part of this report or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC, and is not incorporated herein by reference.





GOVERNMENT REGULATION





California State Utility Regulation



The California Utilities are regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), the California Energy Commission (CEC) and the California Air Resources Board (CARB).



The California Public Utilities Commission:



§consists of five commissioners appointed by the Governor of California for staggered, six-year terms.



§regulates SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ rates and conditions of service, sales of securities, rates of return, capital structure, rates of depreciation, and long-term resource procurement, except as described below in “United States Utility Regulation.”



§has jurisdiction over the proposed construction of major new electric generation, transmission and distribution, and natural gas storage, transmission and distribution facilities in California.



§conducts reviews and audits of utility performance and compliance with regulatory guidelines, and conducts investigations into various matters, such as safety, deregulation, competition and the environment, to determine its future policies.



§regulates the interactions and transactions of the California Utilities with Sempra Energy and its other affiliates.



The CPUC also oversees and regulates new products and services, including solar and wind energy, bioenergy and other forms of renewable energy. In addition, the CPUC’s safety and enforcement role includes inspections, investigations and penalty and citation processes for safety violations.



We provide further discussion in Notes 13 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



SDG&E is also subject to regulation by the CEC, which publishes electric demand forecasts for the state and for specific service territories. Based on these forecasts, the CEC:



§determines the need for additional energy sources and conservation programs;



§sponsors alternative-energy research and development projects;



§promotes energy conservation programs to reduce demand within the state of California for electricity and natural gas;



§maintains a statewide plan of action in case of energy shortages; and



§certifies power-plant sites and related facilities within California.



The CEC conducts a 20-year forecast of available supplies and prices for every market sector that consumes natural gas in California. This forecast includes resource evaluation, pipeline capacity needs, natural gas demand and wellhead prices, and costs of transportation and distribution. This analysis is one of many resource materials used to support the California Utilities’ long-term investment decisions.



In 2010, the State of California required certain California electric retail sellers, including SDG&E, to deliver 20 percent of their retail energy sales from renewable energy sources. The rules governing this requirement, administered by both the CPUC and the CEC, are generally known as the Renewables Portfolio Standard (RPS) Program. In December 2011, California Senate Bill 2(1X) (33% RPS Program) went into effect, superseding the previous RPS program. The 33% RPS Program requires each electric utility within the state of California to procure 33 percent of its annual electric energy requirements from renewable energy sources by 2020, with an average 20 percent required over the three-year period January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2013; 25 percent by December 31, 2016; and 33 percent by December 31, 2020. We discuss this requirement as it applies to SDG&E in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Certification of a generation project by the CEC as an Eligible Renewable Energy Resource (ERR) allows the purchase of output from such generation facility to be counted towards fulfillment of the RPS Program requirements, if such purchase meets the provisions of California Senate Bill 2(1X). This may affect the demand for output from renewables projects developed by Sempra Renewables and Sempra Mexico, particularly from California utilities. Sempra Renewables’ Copper Mountain Solar 1 facility in Nevada is certified as an ERR. Sempra Renewables has 50-percent interests in both the Copper Mountain Solar 2 and Mesquite Solar 1 facilities, both of which have ERR certification. Sempra Renewables has received pre-certification of the Copper Mountain Solar 3 facility and is submitting applications for ERR certification of each phase as it begins operations. In May 2014, Sempra Renewables acquired a 50-percent ownership interest in four, fully operating solar facilities in California, or the California solar partnership. These facilities have ERR certification. We plan to obtain ERR certification for all of our renewable facilities operating in and/or providing power to California as they become operational.



CaliforniaAssembly Bill (AB) 32, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, assigns responsibility to CARB for monitoring and establishing policies for reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The bill requires CARB to develop and adopt a comprehensive plan for achieving real, quantifiable and cost-effective GHG emission reductions, including a statewide GHG emissions cap, mandatory reporting rules, and regulatory and market mechanisms to achieve reductions of GHG emissions. CARB is a department within the California Environmental Protection Agency, an organization that reports directly to the Governor’s Office in the Executive Branch of California State Government. Sempra Natural Gas and Sempra Mexico are also subject to the rules and regulations of CARB. We provide further discussion in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





United States Utility Regulation



The California Utilities are also regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT).



In the case of SDG&E, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, rates of return on transmission investment, the uniform systems of accounts, rates of depreciation and electric rates involving sales for resale.



In the case of SoCalGas, the FERC regulates the interstate sale and transportation of natural gas and the uniform systems of accounts.



The NRC oversees the licensing, construction, operation and decommissioning of nuclear facilities in the United States, including the San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station (SONGS), in which SDG&E owns a 20-percent interest. NRC regulations require extensive review of the safety, radiological and environmental aspects of these facilities. The majority owner of SONGS, Southern California Edison Company (Edison), made a decision to permanently retire the facility in June 2013. We provide further discussion of current SONGS matters involving the NRC and the closure of the facility in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The DOT has established regulations regarding engineering standards and operating procedures applicable for the California Utilities’ natural gas transmission and distribution pipelines. The DOT has certified the CPUC to administer oversight and compliance with these regulations for the entities they regulate in California.





State and Local Regulation Within the U.S.



SoCalGas has natural gas franchises with the 12 counties and the 223 cities in its service territory. These franchises allow SoCalGas to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration date. Some franchises have fixed expiration dates, ranging from 2015 to 2062.



SDG&E has



§electric franchises with the three counties and the 27 cities in or adjoining its electric service territory; and



§natural gas franchises with the one county and the 18 cities in its natural gas service territory.



These franchises allow SDG&E to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of electricity and/or natural gas. Most of the franchises have indefinite lives with no expiration dates. Some natural gas and some electric franchises have fixed expiration dates that range from 2015 to 2037.



Sempra Renewables has operations, investments or development projects in Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Indiana, Kansas, Nebraska, Nevada and Pennsylvania. Sempra Natural Gas develops and operates natural gas storage and related pipeline facilities in Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi, operates its Mesquite Power natural gas generation facility in Arizona and has marketing operations in California.



Sempra Natural Gas operates Mobile Gas Service Corporation (Mobile Gas), a natural gas distribution utility serving southwest Alabama that is regulated by the Alabama Public Service Commission. Mobile Gas has franchise agreements with the two counties and ten cities in its service territory, with fixed expiration dates ranging from 2015 to 2044, which allow it to locate, operate and maintain facilities for the transmission and distribution of natural gas. Sempra Natural Gas also operates Willmut Gas Company (Willmut Gas), a natural gas distribution utility serving Hattiesburg, Mississippi and regulated by the Mississippi Public Service Commission. These entities are subject to state and local laws, and to regulations in the states in which they operate.





Other U.S. Regulation



In the United States, the FERC, with ratemaking authority over sales of wholesale power and the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce, and siting and permitting authority for liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminals, regulates Sempra Renewables’ and Sempra Natural Gas’ operations. Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas operate under the jurisdiction of the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, which is subject to oversight by the FERC. Sempra Natural Gas also owns an interest in the Rockies Express pipeline (REX), a natural gas pipeline that operates in eight states in the United States and is subject to regulation by the FERC. Sempra Natural Gas also has an investment in Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC (Cameron LNG Holdings), located in Louisiana, that is subject to regulations of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) regarding the export of LNG. We discuss Sempra Natural Gas’ investments further in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The FERC may regulate rates and terms of service based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be sufficiently competitive, rates may be market-based. FERC-regulated rates at the following businesses are



§Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas: market-based for wholesale electricity sales



§Sempra Natural Gas: cost-based and market-based for the transportation and storage of natural gas, respectively



§Sempra Natural Gas: market-based for the receipt, storage, and vaporization of LNG and liquefaction of natural gas (at the Cameron LNG Holdings joint venture) and the purchase and sale of LNG and natural gas



The California Utilities and Sempra Natural Gas are subject to regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Sempra Natural Gas is also subject to DOT rules and regulations regarding pipeline safety.





Foreign Regulation



Our Sempra Mexico segment owns and operates the following in Mexico:



§a natural gas-fired power plant and a 50-percent interest in a wind generation facility in Baja California, Mexico



§natural gas distribution systems in Mexicali, Chihuahua, and the La Laguna-Durango zone in north-central Mexico



§natural gas pipelines between the U.S. border and Baja California, Mexico and Sonora, Mexico. Sempra Mexico also owns a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with PEMEX (Petróleos Mexicanos, the Mexican state-owned oil company) that operates several natural gas pipelines and propane systems in Mexico



§the Energía Costa Azul LNG regasification terminal located in Baja California, Mexico



These operations are subject to regulation by the Energy Regulatory Commission (Comisión Reguladora de Energía, or CRE) and by the labor and environmental agencies of city, state and federal governments in Mexico.



Sempra Mexico’s operations in Mexico are contained in the Sempra Energy subsidiary Infraestructura Energética Nova, S.A.B. de C.V. (IEnova). In the first quarter of 2013, IEnova completed a private offering in the U.S. and outside of Mexico and concurrent public offering in Mexico of common stock. The issuance of shares was approved and is subject to regulation by the Mexican National Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, or CNBV) for registration of the shares with the Mexican National Securities Registry (Registro Nacional de Valores, or RNV) maintained by the CNBV. IEnova’s shares are traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (La Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V., or BMV) under the symbol “IENOVA.”



Sempra South American Utilities has two utilities in South America that are subject to laws and regulations in the localities and countries in which they operate. Chilquinta Energía S.A. (including its subsidiaries, Chilquinta Energía) is an electric distribution utility serving customers in the cities of Valparaiso and Viña del Mar in central Chile. Luz del Sur S.A.A. (including its subsidiaries, Luz del Sur) is an electric distribution utility in the southern zone of metropolitan Lima, Peru. These utilities serve primarily regulated customers, and their revenues are based on tariffs that are set by the National Energy Commission (Comisión Nacional de Energía, or CNE) in Chile and the Energy and Mining Investment Supervisory Body (Organismo Supervisor de la Inversión en Energía y Minería, or OSINERGMIN) of the National Electricity Office under the Ministry of Energy and Mines in Peru.





Licenses and Permits



The California Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the transmission and distribution of natural gas and electricity and the operation and construction of related assets, some of which may require periodic renewal.



Sempra Mexico and Sempra South American Utilities obtain numerous permits, authorizations and licenses for their electric and natural gas distribution and transmission systems from the local governments where the service is provided. The concession to operate from the Ministerio de Energía for both Chilquinta Energía’s and Luz del Sur’s distribution operations is for an indefinite term, not requiring renewal.



Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas obtain licenses and permits for the operation and expansion of LNG facilities, and the import and export of LNG and natural gas.



SempraRenewables obtains a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities, and in connection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.



SempraNatural Gas obtains a number of permits, authorizations and licenses in connection with the construction and operation of power generation facilities and natural gas storage facilities and pipelines, and in connection with the wholesale distribution of electricity.



Most of the permits and licenses associated with construction and operations within the Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas businesses are for periods generally in alignment with the construction cycle or life of the asset and in many cases greater than 20 years.



We describe other regulatory matters in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





CALIFORNIA NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS



SoCalGas and SDG&E sell, distribute and transport natural gas. SoCalGas purchases and stores natural gas for its core customers and SDG&E’s core customers on a combined portfolio basis and provides natural gas storage services for others. We discuss the California Utilities’ resource planning, natural gas procurement, contractual commitments, and related regulatory matters below. We also provide further discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Customers



At December 31, 2014, SoCalGas had approximately 5.9 million customer meters consisting of approximately:



§5,594,100 residential



§246,800commercial



§27,000industrial



§50 electric generation and wholesale



At December 31, 2014, SDG&E had approximately 868,000 natural gas customer meters consisting of approximately:



§826,000 residential



§28,600commercial



§12,900electric generation and transportation



For regulatory purposes, end-use customers are classified as either core or noncore customers. Core customers are primarily residential and small commercial and industrial customers. Noncore customers at SoCalGas consist primarily of electric generation, wholesale, large commercial and industrial, and enhanced oil recovery customers. SoCalGas’ wholesale customers are primarily other investor-owned utilities (IOUs), including SDG&E, or municipally owned natural gas distribution systems. Noncore customers at SDG&E consist primarily of electric generation and large commercial and industrial customers.



Most core customers purchase natural gas directly from SoCalGas or SDG&E. While core customers are permitted to purchase directly from producers, marketers or brokers, the California Utilities are obligated to provide reliable supplies of natural gas to serve the requirements of their core customers. Noncore customers are responsible for the procurement of their natural gas requirements.



In 2014, SoCalGas added approximately 26,000 new connected natural gas customer meters and in 2013, it added approximately 23,000 new connected meters, representing an annual growth rate of 0.4 percent in both years. SDG&E’s connected natural gas customer meters increased by approximately 3,000 in 2014, representing an annual growth rate of 0.4 percent; in 2013, it added nearly 5,000 new connected meters, representing an annual growth rate of 0.6 percent. Based on forecasts of new housing starts, SoCalGas and SDG&E each expect that their new meter annual growth rates in 2015 will be slightly higher than those achieved in 2014.





Natural Gas Procurement and Transportation



SoCalGaspurchases natural gas under short-term and long-term contracts for the California Utilities’ core customers. SoCalGas purchases natural gas from Canada, the U.S. Rockies and the southwestern U.S. to meet its and SDG&E’s core customer requirements and maintain supply reliability. It also purchases some California natural gas production and additional supplies delivered directly to California for its remaining requirements. Purchases of natural gas are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices.



To ensure the delivery of the natural gas supplies to its distribution system and to meet the seasonal and annual needs of customers, SoCalGas has entered into firm interstate pipeline capacity contracts that require the payment of fixed reservation charges to reserve firm transportation rights. These contracts expire on various dates between 2015 and 2028. Pipeline companies, primarily El Paso Natural Gas Company, Transwestern Pipeline Company, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), and Kern River Gas Transmission Company, provide transportation services into SoCalGas’ intrastate transmission system for supplies purchased by SoCalGas or its transportation customers from outside of California. The FERC regulates the rates that interstate pipeline companies may charge for natural gas and transportation services.





Natural Gas Storage



SoCalGas provides natural gas storage services for core, noncore and non-end-use customers. The California Utilities’ core customers are allocated a portion of SoCalGas’ storage capacity. SoCalGas offers the remaining storage capacity for sale to others, including SDG&E for its non-core customer requirements, through an open bid process. The storage service program provides opportunities for these customers to purchase and store natural gas when natural gas costs are low, usually during the summer, thereby reducing purchases when natural gas costs are expected to be higher. This program allows customers to better manage their natural gas procurement and transportation needs.





Demand for Natural Gas



Growth in the demand for natural gas largely depends on the health and expansion of the Southern California economy, prices of alternative energy products, environmental regulations, renewable energy, legislation, and the effectiveness of energy efficiency programs. External factors such as weather, the price of electricity, the use of hydroelectric power, development of renewable energy resources, development of new natural gas supply sources, demand for natural gas outside the state of California, and general economic conditions can also result in significant shifts in market price, which may in turn impact demand.



The California Utilities face competition in the residential and commercial customer markets based on customers’ preferences for natural gas compared with other energy products. In the noncore industrial market, some customers are capable of securing alternate fuel supplies from other suppliers which can affect the demand for natural gas. The California Utilities’ ability to maintain their respective industrial market shares is largely dependent on the relative price spread between delivered natural gas and potential fuel alternatives.



Natural gas demand for electric generation within Southern California competes with electric power generated throughout the western United States. Natural gas transported for electric generating plant customers may be affected by the growth in renewable generation, the addition of more efficient gas technologies and the extent that regulatory changes and electric transmission infrastructure investment divert electric generation from the California Utilities’ respective service areas. The demand may also fluctuate due to volatility in the demand for electricity and the availability of competing supplies of electricity such as hydroelectric generation and other renewable energy sources. We provide additional information regarding the electric industry in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



The natural gas distribution business is seasonal, and cash provided from operating activities generally is greater during and immediately following the winter heating months. As is prevalent in the industry, SoCalGas injects natural gas into storage during the summer months (usually April through October), which reduces cash provided from operating activities during this period, for withdrawal from storage during the winter months (usually November through March), which increases cash provided from operating activities, when customer demand is higher.





ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS





SDG&E





Customers



SDG&E’s service area covers 4,100 square miles. At December 31, 2014, SDG&E had 1.4 million electric customer meters consisting of approximately:



§1,259,800 residential



§149,000commercial



§500industrial



§2,100 street and highway lighting



§5,200direct access



SDG&E’s active electric customer meters increased by approximately 8,000 and 7,000 in 2014 and 2013, respectively, representing annual growth rates of 0.6 percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. Based on forecasting of new housing starts, SDG&E expects that its new meter annual growth rate in 2015 will be slightly higher than the growth in 2014.





Resource Planning and Power Procurement



SDG&E’s resource planning, power procurement and related regulatory matters are discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to SDG&E for resale is based on CPUC-approved purchased-power contracts currently in place with its various suppliers, its wholly owned generating facilities, and purchases on a spot basis. This supply as of December 31, 2014 is as follows:





SDG&E ELECTRIC RESOURCESResourceNumber of contractsExpiration dateMegawattsPURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS:Contracts with Qualifying Facilities (QFs)(1):Cogeneration42015 and thereafter246Other contracts with renewable sources:Wind112018 - 20331,067Solar PV142033 - 2039891Bio-gas/Hydro162015 and thereafter39Biomass22017, 202560Total2,057Other long-term and tolling contracts(2):Natural gas42019 - 2039800Hydro/Pump storage1203740Demand response/Distributed generation1201625Total865Total contracted3,168OWNED GENERATION, NATURAL GAS:Palomar Energy Center566Miramar Energy Center96Desert Star Energy Center485Cuyamaca Peak Energy Plant47Total generation1,194TOTAL CONTRACTED AND OWNED GENERATION4,362(1)A QF is a generating facility which meets the requirements for QF status under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978. It includes cogeneration facilities, which produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy (such as heat or steam) used for industrial, commercial, residential or institutional purposes.(2)Tolling contracts are purchased-power agreements under which SDG&E provides the fuel for generation to the energy supplier.



Charges under most of the contracts with QFs are based on SDG&E’s avoided cost. Charges under the remaining contracts are for firm and as-generated energy, and are based on the amount of energy received or are tolls based on available capacity. The prices under these contracts are based on the market value at the time the contracts were negotiated.

Natural Gas Supply

SDG&E buys natural gas under short-term contracts for its Palomar, Miramar, Desert Star and Cuyamaca Peak generating facilities and for the Otay Mesa Energy Center LLC, Orange Grove Energy L.P., El Cajon Energy, LLC and Escondido Energy Center, LLC tolling contracts. Purchases are from various southwestern U.S. suppliers and are primarily priced based on published monthly bid-week indices. SDG&E’s natural gas is typically delivered from Southern California border receipt points to the SoCal CityGate pool via backbone transmission system rights which expire on September 30, 2017. The natural gas is then delivered to the generating facilities through SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s pipeline systems in accordance with a transportation agreement that expires on May 31, 2015. SDG&E has also contracted with SoCalGas for natural gas storage through March 31, 2015.

Power Pool

SDG&E is a participant in the Western Systems Power Pool, which includes an electric-power and transmission-rate agreement with utilities and power agencies located throughout the United States and Canada. More than 300 investor-owned and municipal utilities, state and federal power agencies, energy brokers and power marketers share power and information in order to increase efficiency and competition in the bulk power market. Participants are able to make power transactions on standardized terms, including market-based rates, preapproved by the FERC.



Transmission Arrangements

SDG&E’s 500-kilovolt (kV) Southwest Powerlink transmission line, which is shared with Arizona Public Service Company and Imperial Irrigation District, extends from Palo Verde, Arizona to San Diego, California. SDG&E’s share of the line is 1,162 megawatts (MW), although it can be less under certain system conditions.SDG&E’s Sunrise Powerlink is a 500-kV transmission line constructed and operated by SDG&E with import capability of 1,000 MW of power. It provides transmission capability into SDG&E’s service territory for renewable energy generated at various renewable energy generation facilities located in the Imperial Valley region of Southern California. This transmission line was placed in service in June 2012. We provide further discussion of Sunrise Powerlink in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.Mexico’s Baja California system is connected to SDG&E’s system via two 230-kV interconnections with combined capacity up to 408 MW in the north-to-south direction and 800 MW in the south-to-north direction, although it can be less under certain system conditions.Edison’s transmission is connected to SDG&E’s system at SONGS via five 230-kV transmission lines with a total firm capacity up to 2,500 MW into SDG&E’s system, although it can be less under certain system conditions.

Transmission Access

The National Energy Policy Act governs procedures for requests for transmission service. The FERC approved the California IOUs’ transfer of operation and control of their transmission facilities to the Independent System Operator in 1998. We provide additional information regarding transmission issues in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



Chilquinta Energía





Customers



Chilquinta Energía is an electric distribution utility with approximately 657,000 customer meters in the cities of Valparaiso and Viña del Mar in central Chile, with a main service area covering 4,400 square miles. At December 31, 2014, its customer meters consisted of approximately:



§606,500 residential



§37,800 commercial



§1,400 industrial



§6,300 street and highway lighting



§5,000 agricultural



In Chile, customers are classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on installed capacity. Regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is less than 500 kilowatts (kW). Non-regulated customers are those whose installed capacity is greater than 2,000 kW. Customers with installed capacity between 500 kW and 2,000 kW may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated. Non-regulated customers can buy power from other sources, such as directly from the generator.



In 2014, Chilquinta Energía added approximately 17,000 new customer meters at a growth rate of 2.7 percent. Chilquinta Energía’s electric energy sales increased by approximately 88,000 megawatt hours (MWh) and 158,000 MWh in 2014 and 2013, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 3 percent in 2014 and 6 percent in 2013.





Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to Chilquinta Energía comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with its various suppliers and its suppliers’ generating facilities. This supply as of December 31, 2014 is as follows:







CHILQUINTA ENERGÍA ELECTRIC RESOURCESResourceNumber of contractsExpiration dateMegawattsPURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS(1)(2):Thermal/Hydro/Wind162020 to 2027484SMALL GENERATION PLANTS:Thermal11TOTAL495(1)Contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal.(2)In 2014, energy contracts in the Central Interconnected System, where Chilquinta Energía operates, were supplied from 52 percent thermal, 45 percent hydro and 3 percent wind sources.





Power Generation System



The Centers for Economic Load Dispatch (Centros de Despacho Económico de Carga, or CDEC) are private organizations in charge of coordinating the operation of the electricity system. Each interconnected system is subject to its own CDEC; there is a CDEC-SIC (Sistema Interconectado Central, Central Interconnected System) and CDEC-SING (Sistema Interconectado del Norte Grande, Northern Interconnected System) for the central and the northern interconnected system, respectively. Chilquinta Energía operates within CDEC-SIC.





Transmission System and Access



Transmission lines in Chile are either part of its main transmission system (sistema de transmisión troncal) or its sub-transmission system (sistema de subtransmisión). In Chile, main transmission lines must be greater than or equal to 220 kV. Chilquinta Energía primarily uses Transelec, a third party, for its main transmission. In general, sub-transmission systems operate at voltage levels greater than 23 kV and lower than or equal to 220 kV. Sub-transmission systems, including those owned by Chilquinta Energía, are comprised of infrastructure that is interconnected to the electricity system to supply non-regulated or regulated end-users located in the distribution service area.





Luz del Sur



Customers



Luz del Sur is an electric distribution utility with approximately 1,029,000 customer meters in the southern zone of metropolitan Lima, Peru, with a main service area covering approximately 1,160 square miles. At December 31, 2014, its customer meters consisted of approximately:



§962,800 residential



§56,000 commercial



§3,900 industrial



§5,000 street and highway lighting



§1,300 agricultural



In Peru, customers are classified as regulated and non-regulated customers based on capacity demand. Regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is less than 200 kW and their energy supply is considered public service. Non-regulated customers are those whose capacity demand is greater than 2,500 kW. Customers with capacity demand between 200 kW and 2,500 kW may choose to be classified as regulated or non-regulated.



In 2014, Luz del Sur added approximately 33,000 new customer meters at a growth rate of 3.3 percent. Luz del Sur’s electric energy sales increased by approximately 303,000 MWh and 316,000 MWh in 2014 and 2013, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 4 percent in 2014 and 5 percent in 2013.





Electric Resources



The supply of electric power available to Luz del Sur comes from power purchase contracts currently in place with various suppliers, as well as purchases made on an as-needed basis. This supply as of December 31, 2014 is as follows:







LUZ DEL SUR ELECTRIC RESOURCESResourceNumber of contractsExpiration dateMegawattsPURCHASED-POWER CONTRACTS(1):Bilateral contracts:Hydro1201525Auction contracts:Hydro62015-2021264Thermal52021-2023674Hydro/Thermal32021-2023510Total1,448TOTAL CONTRACTED1,473(1)Contracts with fuel sources that include natural gas, coal or diesel are collectively referred to as thermal.

Power Generation System

The Sistema Eléctrico Interconectado Nacional (SEIN) is the Peruvian national interconnected system. Peru also has several isolated regional and smaller systems that provide electricity to specific areas. The OSINERGMIN is an autonomous public regulatory entity that controls and enforces compliance with legal and technical regulations related to electric activities, sets tariffs and supervises the bidding processes required by distribution companies to purchase energy from generators.TheCommittee of Economic Operation of the National Interconnected System (Comité de Operación Económica del Sistema Interconectado Nacional, orCOES) coordinates the operation and dispatch of electricity of the SEIN, and manages the short-term market. The COES oversees generation, transmission and distribution companies, as well unregulated customers with a demand higher than 200 kW.Luz del Sur is in the final stages of construction of Santa Teresa, a 100-MW hydroelectric power plant in Peru’s Cusco region. It is scheduled to be completed in the first half of 2015.

Transmission System and Access

Transmission lines in Peru are divided into principal and secondary systems. The principal system lines are accessible by all generators and allow the flow of energy through the national grid. The secondary system lines connect principal transmission with the network of distribution companies or connect directly to certain final customers. The transmission company receives tariff revenues and collects tolls based on a charge per unit of electricity.Luz del Sur has received regulatory approval for an amended transmission investment plan that includes the development and operation of four substations and their related transmission lines in Lima, Peru. We estimate that the project will be in service in 2016 and 2017 as portions are completed.

RATES AND REGULATION – UTILITIES

We provide information concerning rates and regulation applicable to our utilities in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 1, 13 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.



SEMPRA INTERNATIONAL AND SEMPRA U.S. GAS & POWER



Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power contain most of our subsidiaries that are not subject to California utility regulation. In addition to the discussion of our South American utilities above, we provide descriptions of these operating units’ segments and information concerning their operations in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Notes 1, 3, 4, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.





Competition



Sempra Energy’s non-utility businesses are among many others in the energy industry providing similar services. They are engaged in highly competitive activities that require significant capital investments and highly skilled and experienced personnel. Among these competitors there may be significant variation in financial, personnel and other resources compared to Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power.





Generation – Renewables



Sempra Renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity through its development of and investments in wind and solar generation facilities. For sales of non-contracted renewable energy, Sempra Renewables competes with other non-utility generators, regulated utilities, unregulated subsidiaries of regulated utilities, and other energy service companies. The number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. Also, regulatory initiatives designed to enhance energy consumption from renewable resources for regulated utility companies may increase competition from these types of institutions. These utilities may have a lower cost of capital than most independent renewable power producers and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms. This recovery allows them to build, buy and upgrade renewable generation projects without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.  Additionally, generation from Sempra Renewables’ renewable energy assets is exposed to fluctuations in naturally occurring conditions such as wind, inclement weather and hours of sunlight.



Our renewable energy competitors include, among others:



§Exelon Energy§Iberdrola Renewables§MidAmerican Energy§NextEra Energy Resources§NRG Energy

Because Sempra Mexico sells the power that it generates at its Energía Sierra Juárez wind project into California, it is also impacted by these competitive factors.



Natural Gas Pipelines and Storage Facilities



Within its market area, Sempra Natural Gas’ and Sempra Mexico’s pipelines businesses and Sempra Natural Gas’ storage facilities businesses compete with other regulated and unregulated storage facilities and pipelines. They compete primarily on the basis of price (in terms of storage and transportation fees), available capacity and interconnections to downstream markets.



Sempra Natural Gas’ competitors include, among others:



§AGL Resources§Boardwalk Pipeline Partners§Cardinal Gas Storage Partners§Clean Energy§Duke Energy§Enbridge§Energy Transfer Partners§Enstor§Enterprise Products Partners§Kinder Morgan§Macquarie Infrastructure Partners§NiSource§Plains All American Pipeline§Spectra Energy§TransCanada§The Williams Companies

Sempra Mexico’s natural gas pipeline competitors include, among others:



§Carso Energy§EDF Energy§Elecnor§Enagas§Fermaca§GDF SUEZ§Kinder Morgan§Mitsui§PEMEX (MGI)§Promigas§TransCanada

LNG



Technological advances associated with shale gas and tight oil production have reduced the forecasted need for North American LNG import facilities and increased interest in liquefaction and export opportunities.



At current forward gas prices, U.S. Gulf Coast liquefaction appears to be among the most price competitive potential LNG supply in the world. Brownfield liquefaction is particularly price competitive, resulting from many factors, including:



§high levels of undeveloped North American unconventional natural gas and tight oil resources relative to domestic consumption levels;



§increasing gas and oil drilling productivity and decreasing unit costs of gas production;



§low breakeven prices of marginal North American unconventional gas production;



§proximity to ample existing gas transmission pipeline and underground gas storage capacity; and



§existing LNG tankage and berths.



Global LNG competition, primarily from Canada, Russia, East Africa and Australia, may limit U.S. LNG exports, as international liquefaction projects attempt to match U.S. Gulf Coast LNG production costs and customer contractual rights such as volume and destination flexibility. Host governments for international liquefaction projects are altering fiscal and tax regimes in an effort to make projects in their jurisdictions competitive relative to U.S. projects, however sustained low oil prices may cause some of the international projects to become unfeasible due to their LNG price formulas’ link to oil prices. It is expected that U.S. LNG exports will increase competition for current and future global natural gas demand, and thereby facilitate development of a global commodity market for natural gas.



On October 1, 2014, Sempra Natural Gas and its joint venture project partners completed the formation of a joint venture for their investment in the development, construction and operation of a natural gas liquefaction export facility. Our 50.2-percent retained equity in the joint venture, Cameron LNG Holdings, was derived from the contribution of our existing Cameron LNG regasification facility in Hackberry, Louisiana to the joint venture. The new liquefaction facility, which began construction in the second half of 2014, will utilize Cameron LNG’s existing facilities, including two marine berths, three LNG storage tanks, and vaporization capability of 1.5 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day. The joint venture has authorization to export LNG to both Free Trade Agreement (FTA) countries and to countries that do not have an FTA with the United States.



Cameron LNG Holdings has 20-year liquefaction and regasification tolling capacity agreements in place with GDF SUEZ S.A. and affiliates of Mitsubishi Corporation and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., that subscribe the full nameplate capacity of the facility. We discuss Cameron LNG Holdings in Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Our joint venture partners, affiliates of GDF SUEZ S.A., Mitsubishi Corporation (through a related company jointly established with Nippon Yusen Kabushiki Kaisha (NYK)), and Mitsui & Co., Ltd., compete globally to market and sell LNG to end users, including gas and electric utilities located in LNG importing countries around the world. By providing liquefaction services, Cameron LNG Holdings will compete indirectly with liquefaction projects currently operating and those under development in the global LNG market. In addition to the U.S., these competitors are located in the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Africa, South America, Australia and Europe.



Sempra Energy is also taking steps to develop additional LNG export facilities at Sempra Natural Gas’ Port Arthur, Texas, property and Sempra Mexico’s Energía Costa Azul regasification facility. In addition, Cameron LNG Holdings is working on the development of two additional trains. These projects would compete against other global projects.



Our LNG liquefaction business’ major domestic and international competitors will include, among others, the following companies and their related LNG affiliates:



§BG§BP§Cheniere Energy§Chevron§ConocoPhillips§ExxonMobil§Kinder Morgan§Petronas§Qatar Petroleum§Royal Dutch Shell§Total§Woodside

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We discuss environmental issues affecting us in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. You should read the following additional information in conjunction with those discussions.

Hazardous Substances

The CPUC’s Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism allows California’s IOUs to recover hazardous waste cleanup costs for certain sites, including those related to certain Superfund sites. This mechanism permits the California Utilities to recover in rates 90 percent of hazardous waste cleanup costs and related third-party litigation costs, and 70 percent of the related insurance-litigation expenses. In addition, the California Utilities have the opportunity to retain a percentage of any recoveries from insurance carriers and other third parties to offset the cleanup and associated litigation costs not recovered in rates.At December 31, 2014, we had accrued estimated remaining investigation and remediation liabilities of $7 million at SDG&E and $24 million at SoCalGas, both related to hazardous waste sites for which the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism applies, as described above. The accruals include costs for numerous locations, most of which had been manufactured-gas plants at SoCalGas. We believe that any costs not ultimately recovered through rates, insurance or other means will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition of Sempra Energy, SDG&E or SoCalGas.We record estimated liabilities for environmental remediation when amounts are probable and estimable. In addition, we record amounts authorized to be recovered in rates under the Hazardous Waste Collaborative mechanism as regulatory assets.

Air and Water Quality

The electric and natural gas industries are subject to increasingly stringent air-quality and greenhouse gas standards, such as those established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the CARB. We discuss these standards in “Government Regulation – California State Utility Regulation” above. The California Utilities generally recover in rates the costs to comply with these standards.In connection with the issuance of operating permits, SDG&E and the other owners of SONGS have an agreement with the California Coastal Commission (CCC) to mitigate environmental impacts to the marine environment attributed to the cooling-water discharge from SONGS during its operation. SONGS’ early retirement, described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, does not reduce SDG&E’s mitigation obligation. SDG&E’s share of the mitigation costs is estimated to be $63 million, of which $43 million had been incurred through December 31, 2014, and $20 million is accrued for the remaining costs through 2050. Artificial kelp reef, fish hatchery and wetlands restoration projects are complete, but continue to be studied until the CCC accepts the projects. The remaining costs are to meet CCC acceptance requirements and maintain the projects through 2050.



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTSEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SEMPRA ENERGYNameAge(1)Position(1)Debra L. Reed58Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerMark A. Snell58PresidentJoseph A. Householder59Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMartha B. Wyrsch57Executive Vice President and General CounselTrevor I. Mihalik48Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting OfficerG. Joyce Rowland60Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer and Chief AdministrativeOfficer(1)Ages and positions are as of February 26, 2015.

With the exception of Ms. Wyrsch and Mr. Mihalik, each executive officer has been an officer of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for more than the last five years. Before joining Sempra Energy in September 2013, Ms. Wyrsch served as President of Vestas American Wind Systems from 2009 to 2012. Previously, Ms. Wyrsch spent nearly ten years at Duke Energy and its spinoff, Spectra Energy Corporation. She joined Duke Energy in 1999 as Senior Vice President of Legal Affairs and Deputy Counsel and, later, was promoted to Group Vice President and General Counsel. In 2005, she moved to Duke Energy Gas Transmission as its President and Chief Executive Officer. Subsequently, she became the President and Chief Executive Officer of Spectra Energy Transmission.Before joining Sempra Energy in July 2012, Mr. Mihalik served as Senior Vice President of Finance for the past two years and as Vice President – Controller for the prior four years, in each case at Iberdrola Renewables Holdings, Inc., a diversified renewables and natural gas company.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SDG&E AND SOCALGASNameAge(1)Position(1)San Diego Gas & Electric CompanyJ. Walker Martin53Chief Executive OfficerSteven D. Davis59President and Chief Operating OfficerJames P. Avery58Senior Vice President – Power SupplyJ. Chris Baker55Senior Vice President and Chief Information Technology OfficerLee Schavrien60Senior Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Operations SupportErbin B. Keith54Senior Vice President and General CounselRobert M. Schlax59Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer andTreasurerSouthern California Gas CompanyDennis V. Arriola54President and Chief Executive OfficerJ. Bret Lane55Chief Operating OfficerJ. Chris Baker55Senior Vice President and Chief Information Technology OfficerLee Schavrien60Senior Vice President – Regulatory Affairs and Operations SupportRobert M. Schlax59Vice President, Controller, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer andTreasurerSharon L. Tomkins49Vice President and General Counsel(1)Ages and positions are as of February 26, 2015.

With the exception of Mr. Arriola and Ms. Tomkins, each executive officer of SDG&E and SoCalGas has been an officer or employee of Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries for at least the last five years. Mr. Arriola was a Senior Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of SDG&E and SoCalGas from September 2006 to November 2008, and held numerous management positions with Sempra Energy or its subsidiaries prior to that period. In November 2008, Mr. Arriola became a Senior Vice President and the Chief Financial Officer of SunPower Corporation. From April 2010 to March 2012, he was the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of SunPower Corporation. In August 2012, he joined SoCalGas as President and Chief Operating Officer, and in December 2012, he also joined the SoCalGas board of directors.Before joining SoCalGas in 2010, Ms. Tomkins was a partner of O’Melveny and Meyers LLP, where she was a founding member of its Energy, Natural Resources and Environmental practice. Ms. Tomkins joined SoCalGas in 2010 as the Regulatory Assistant General Counsel.

OTHER MATTERS

Employees of the Registrants

At December 31, each company had the following number of employees:NUMBER OF EMPLOYEESDecember 31,20142013Sempra Energy Consolidated(1)17,04617,122SDG&E(1)4,3004,603SoCalGas8,3248,196(1)Excludes employees of variable interest entities as defined by accountingprinciples generally accepted in the United States of America.

Labor Relations

SoCalGas

Field, technical and most clerical employees at SoCalGas are represented by the Utility Workers Union of America or the International Chemical Workers Union Council (collectively “Union”) under a single collective bargaining agreement. The provisions of the collective bargaining agreement for these employees covering wages, hours, working conditions, medical and all other benefit plans are in effect through September 30, 2015. At December 31, 2014, SoCalGas had 8,324 employees, 69 percent of whom are represented by the Union.

SDG&E

Field employees and some clerical and technical employees at SDG&E are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Provisions of the collective bargaining agreement covering wages and working conditions for these employees are in effect through August 31, 2015. For these same employees, the agreement covering pension and savings plan benefits is in effect through October 1, 2015, and the agreement covering health and welfare benefits is in effect through December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2014, SDG&E had 4,300 employees, 30 percent of whom are covered by these agreements.

Sempra South American Utilities

Field, technical and administrative employees at Luz del Sur are represented by the Unified Trade Union of Electricity Workers of Lima and Callao, and the Trade Union of Employees of Electrolima. A collective bargaining agreement is under negotiation with both of these trade unions and once signed, will cover these employees and will also be extended to 149 nonrepresented employees. It will cover wages, working conditions and other benefit plans, and will be in effect from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015.



Field, technical and administrative employees at Chilquinta Energía are represented by Labor Union Number 1 Chilquinta Energía, Labor Union Number 2 Chilquinta Energía, Litoral Labor Union, Luzlinares Labor Union, Tecnored Labor Union Number 1, Negotiating Group Luzparral and Negotiating Group Casablanca. The collective bargaining agreements for employees represented by these unions and negotiating groups cover wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and are in effect through various dates from 2015 to 2016.



Professional employees at Chilquinta Energía are represented by Group of University Graduates of Chilquinta Energía. The collective bargaining agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through July 2, 2017.



At December 31, 2014, Sempra South American Utilities had a total of 1,340 employees in Peru, of whom 24 percent are covered under a labor agreement, and 1,385 employees in Chile, of whom 37 percent are covered under labor agreements.





Sempra Mexico

At December 31, 2014, Sempra Mexico had 581 employees, 6 percent of whom are covered by various collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. The collective bargaining agreements are subject to renegotiation on an annual basis with respect to wages, and otherwise on a bi-annual basis.

Mobile Gas

Field employees at Mobile Gas are represented by the United Steelworkers Union under a single collective bargaining agreement. The agreement for these employees covers wages, hours, working conditions and medical and other benefit plans and is in effect through November 30, 2017. At December 31, 2014, Mobile Gas had a total of 216 employees, 34 percent of whom are covered under this agreement.

