Item 1A.Risk Factors

The information set forth in this Item 1A should be read in conjunction with the rest of the information included in this
report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, and Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8.

We Must Manage Fluctuating Demand for Our Services and Network Capacity

We Transport Hazardous Materials– We transport
certain hazardous materials and other materials, including crude oil, ethanol, and toxic inhalation hazard (TIH) materials, such as chlorine, that pose certain risks in the event of a release or combustion. Additionally, U.S. laws impose common
carrier obligations on railroads that require us to transport certain hazardous materials regardless of risk or potential exposure to loss. A rail accident or other incident or accident on our network, at our facilities, or at the facilities of our
customers involving the release or combustion of hazardous materials could involve significant costs and claims for personal injury, property damage, and environmental penalties and remediation in excess of our insurance coverage for these risks,
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We Are Subject to
Significant Governmental Regulation







carriers likely will not meet the current mandatory deadline for PTC implementation due to various factors. Additionally, one or more consolidations of Class I railroads could also lead to
increased regulation of the rail industry.

We May Be Affected by General Economic Conditions– Prolonged severe adverse
domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of financial and credit markets may affect the producers and consumers of the commodities we carry and may have a material adverse effect on our access to liquidity and our results of operations
and financial condition.

We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers– We face competition
from other railroads, motor carriers, ships, barges, and pipelines. In addition to price competition, we face competition with respect to transit times and quality and reliability of service. While we must build or acquire and maintain our rail
system, trucks, barges and maritime operators are able to use public rights-of-way maintained by public entities. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation,
or legislation that eliminates or significantly reduces the burden of the size or weight limitations currently applicable to motor carriers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.
Additionally, any future consolidation of the rail industry could materially affect the competitive environment in which we operate.

Severe Weather Could Result in Significant Business Interruptions and Expenditures– As a railroad with a vast network, we are exposed
to severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, mudslides or landslides, extreme temperatures, and significant precipitation. Line outages and other interruptions caused by these conditions
can adversely affect our entire rail network and can adversely affect revenue, costs, and liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We Rely on Technology and Technology Improvements in Our Business Operations– We rely on information technology in all aspects of our
business. If we do not have sufficient capital to acquire new technology or if we are unable to develop or implement new technology such as PTC or the latest version of our transportation control systems, we may suffer a competitive disadvantage
within the rail industry and with companies providing other modes of transportation service, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Additionally, if a cyber attack or other event
causes significant disruption or failure of one or more of our information technology systems, including computer hardware, software, and communications equipment, we could suffer a significant service interruption, safety failure, security breach,
or other operational difficulties, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We May Be Subject to Various Claims and Lawsuits That Could Result in Significant Expenditures– As a railroad with operations in densely populated urban areas and other cities and a vast rail network,
we are exposed to the potential for various claims and litigation related to labor and employment, personal injury, property damage, environmental liability, and other matters. Any material changes to litigation trends or a catastrophic rail
accident or series of accidents involving any or all of property damage, personal injury, and environmental liability that exceed our insurance coverage for such risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and liquidity.

We Are Subject to Significant Environmental Laws and Regulations







participation and financial viability of other parties responsible for any such liability and the corrective action or change to corrective actions required to remediate any existing or future
sites. We could incur significant costs as a result of any of the foregoing, and we may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown, or future environmental contamination, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We May Be Affected by Climate Change and Market or
Regulatory Responses to Climate Change

Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations– The U.S. Class I railroads are party to collective bargaining
agreements with various labor unions. The majority of our employees belong to labor unions and are subject to these agreements. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or our potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with
these unions could result in, among other things, strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, or lockouts, which could cause a significant disruption of our operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity. Additionally, future national labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise our service reliability or significantly increase our costs for health care, wages, and other
benefits, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

The
Availability of Qualified Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Operations– Changes in demographics, training requirements, and the availability of qualified personnel could negatively affect our ability to meet demand for rail service.
Unpredictable increases in demand for rail services and a lack of network fluidity may exacerbate such risks, which could have a negative impact on our operational efficiency and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition, and liquidity.

We May Be Affected By Fluctuating Fuel Prices







transport, such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

We Utilize Capital Markets– Due to the significant capital expenditures required to operate and maintain a safe and efficient
railroad, we rely on the capital markets to provide some of our capital requirements. We utilize long-term debt instruments, bank financing and commercial paper from time-to-time, and we pledge certain of our receivables. Significant instability or
disruptions of the capital markets, including the credit markets, or deterioration of our financial condition due to internal or external factors could restrict or prohibit our access to, and significantly increase the cost of, commercial paper and
other financing sources, including bank credit facilities and the issuance of long-term debt, including corporate bonds. A significant deterioration of our financial condition could result in a reduction of our credit rating to below investment
grade, which could restrict, or at certain credit levels below investment grade may prohibit us, from utilizing our current receivables securitization facility. This may also limit our access to external sources of capital and significantly increase
the costs of short and long-term debt financing.

A Significant Portion of Our Revenue Involves Transportation of Commodities to and
from International Markets

We Are Subject to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal
Developments Involving Taxes– Taxes are a significant part of our expenses. We are subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income, payroll, property, sales and use, fuel, and other types of taxes. Changes in tax rates, enactment of new
tax laws, revisions of tax regulations, and claims or litigation with taxing authorities could result in substantially higher taxes and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and
liquidity.

We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail– Due to the capital intensive nature and
sophistication of locomotive equipment, potential new suppliers face high barriers to entry. Therefore, if one of the domestic suppliers of high horsepower locomotives discontinues manufacturing locomotives for any reason, including bankruptcy or
insolvency, we could experience significant cost increases and reduced availability of the locomotives that are necessary for our operations. Additionally, for a high percentage of our rail purchases, we utilize two steel producers (one domestic and
one international) that meet our specifications. Rail is critical to our operations for rail replacement programs, maintenance, and for adding additional network capacity, new rail and storage yards, and expansions of existing facilities. This
industry similarly has high barriers to entry, and if one of these suppliers discontinues operations for any reason, including bankruptcy or insolvency, we could experience both significant cost increases for rail purchases and difficulty obtaining
sufficient rail for maintenance and other projects.

We May Be Affected by Acts of Terrorism, War, or Risk of War– Our rail
lines, facilities, and equipment, including rail cars carrying hazardous materials, could be direct targets or indirect casualties of terrorist attacks. Terrorist attacks, or other similar events, any government response thereto, and war or risk of
war may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. In addition, insurance premiums for some or all of our current coverages could increase dramatically, or certain coverages may not be available to us in the
future.







