ITEM 1.BUSINESS General

Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Humana Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as “we,”
“us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Humana,” is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong
well-being. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 11.2 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 7.3 million members in our specialty products. During 2011, 76% of our premiums and services revenue
were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 16% related to our Medicare Advantage contracts in Florida with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, and 10% related to our military services contracts. Under our
Medicare Advantage CMS contracts in Florida, we provide health insurance coverage to approximately 381,300 members as of December 31, 2011.

Humana Inc. was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1964. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is
(502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. We have made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form
8-K, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2011 Form 10-K, contains both historical and
forward-looking information. See Item 1A. – Risk Factors in this 2011 Form 10-K for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business.

Health Insurance Reform

In March 2010, the President signed into law
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the Health Insurance Reform Legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S.
health insurance industry. There are many significant provisions of the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on
our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next several years.

Certain significant provisions of the Health
Insurance Reform Legislation include, among others, mandated coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare







Advantage premiums, the establishment of state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a
three-year commercial reinsurance fee. Implementation dates of the Health Insurance Reform Legislation vary from September 30, 2010 to as late as 2018. The Health Insurance Reform Legislation is discussed more fully in Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the section titled “Health Insurance Reform.”

2011 Business Segment Realignment

During the first quarter of 2011, we
realigned our business segments to reflect our evolving business model. As a result, we reassessed and changed our operating and reportable segments in the first quarter of 2011 to reflect management’s view of the business and to align our
external financial reporting with our new operating and internal financial reporting model. Historical segment information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the effect of this change. Our new reportable segments and the basis for
determining those segments are discussed below.

Business Segments

We currently manage our business with three reportable segments: Retail, Employer Group, and Health and Well-Being Services. In addition,
we include businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles in an Other Businesses category. These segments are based on a combination of the
type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer to assess
performance and allocate resources.

The Retail segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and
specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals. The Employer Group segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical
and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, as well as administrative services only products marketed to employer groups. The Health and Well-Being Services
segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including primary care, pharmacy, integrated wellness, and home care services. The Other Businesses category consists of our
Military services, primarily our TRICARE South Region contract, Medicaid, and closed-block long-term care businesses as well as our contract with CMS to administer the Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition program, or the LI-NET program.

The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. Transactions between reportable segments consist of
sales of services rendered by our Health and Well-Being Services segment, primarily pharmacy and behavioral health services, to our Retail and Employer Group customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in
consolidation. Members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the
profitability of each segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting
segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These items are managed at the corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment
eliminations.







Our Products

Our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. These products may vary in
the degree to which members have coverage. Health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, generally require a referral from the member’s primary care physician before seeing certain specialty physicians. Preferred provider organizations, or PPOs,
provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. However PPOs generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider’s fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider
participating in the PPO’s network. Point of Service, or POS, plans combine the advantages of HMO plans with the flexibility of PPO plans. In general, POS plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from
a provider within the plan’s network or outside the network. In addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, primary care, integrated wellness, and home
care services. The discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments.

Our Retail Segment Products

This segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit
plans described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Retail segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2011:



Retail SegmentPremiums andServices RevenuePercent 
ofConsolidatedPremiums andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Individual Medicare Advantage$18,10049.6%Individual Medicare stand-alone PDP2,3176.4%Total individual Medicare20,41756.0%Individual commercial8612.4%Individual specialty1240.3%Total premiums21,40258.7%Services160.0%Total premiums and services revenue$21,41858.7%

Individual Medicare

We have participated in the Medicare program for private health plans for over 25 years and have established a national presence, offering
at least one type of Medicare plan in all 50 states. We have a geographically diverse membership base that provides us with greater ability to expand our network of PPO and HMO providers. We employ strategies including health assessments and
clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide Medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. We believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from
making positive behavior changes.

Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled
persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. CMS, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, administers the Medicare program. Hospitalization benefits are provided under Part A, without
the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care
and other services under Part B. Beneficiaries eligible for Part A and







Part B coverage under original Medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. Throughout this document this program is referred to as original Medicare. As an
alternative to original Medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with CMS pursuant to the Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a Medicare Advantage organization
under Medicare Part C. Pursuant to Medicare Part C, Medicare Advantage organizations contract with CMS to offer Medicare Advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original Medicare. Our Medicare Advantage plans
are discussed more fully below. Prescription drug benefits are provided under Part D.

Individual Medicare Advantage
Products

We contract with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance
benefits, including wellness programs, to Medicare eligible persons under HMO, PPO, and Private Fee-For-Service, or PFFS, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from CMS, usually a fixed payment per member per month. With each of these
products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original Medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case
management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, disease management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly Part B premium. Most Medicare Advantage plans offer the prescription drug
benefit under Part D as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. Accordingly, all of the provisions of the Medicare Part D program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following
section also are applicable to most of our Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for Medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. Generally, Medicare-eligible
individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on January 1.

Our Medicare HMO and PPO plans, which cover Medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while
seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. Except in emergency situations, HMO plans provide no out-of-network benefits. PPO plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing.
In most cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the HMO or PPO plan in addition to the monthly Part B premium they are required to pay the Medicare program.

Our Medicare PFFS plans generally have no preferred network. Individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical
Medicare Advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original Medicare payment rates. On January 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in PFFS plans transitioned
to networked-based PPO type products due to a requirement that Medicare Advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that CMS determines have fewer than two network-based Medicare Advantage plans.

CMS uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit
plans. These rates are adjusted under CMS’s risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of
1997 (BBA) and the Benefits and Improvement Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings
(hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information
to CMS within prescribed deadlines.

At December 31, 2011, we provided health insurance coverage under CMS contracts to
approximately 1,640,300 individual Medicare Advantage members. Under our individual Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS in Florida, we provided health insurance coverage to approximately 362,100 members. These Florida







contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $5.6 billion, which represented approximately 31% of our individual Medicare Advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated
premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Our HMO, PPO, and PFFS products covered under
Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by August 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to
renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare Advantage products have been renewed for 2012, and all of our product offerings filed with
CMS for 2012 have been approved.

Individual Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products

Medicare and Medicaid Dual Eligible

Medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for Medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual
eligibles. There were approximately 9 million dual eligible enrollees in 2011. These dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered Medicare Advantage product, but may also receive assistance from Medicaid for Medicaid benefits, such as
nursing home care and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing. As of December 31, 2011, we served approximately 242,000 dual eligible members in our Medicare Advantage plans and approximately 482,000 dual eligible members in our
stand-alone prescription drug plans.

Individual Commercial Coverage

Our individual health plans, marketed under the HumanaOne®brand include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. HumanaOne plans are designed specifically for self-employed entrepreneurs, small-business
employees, part-time workers, students, and early retirees and include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices, as well as HumanaVitality®, our wellness and loyalty rewards program.

Our HumanaOne plans primarily are offered as PPO plans in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. This individual product
includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses.

The HumanaOne
plans can be further customized with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products.







Our Employer Group Segment Products

This segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion
that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Employer Group segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2011:



Employer GroupSegmentPremiums andServices RevenuePercent ofConsolidatedPremiums andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Fully-insured commercial group$4,78213.1%Group Medicare Advantage3,1528.6%Group Medicare stand-alone PDP80.0%Total group Medicare3,1608.6%Group specialty9352.6%Total premiums8,87724.3%Services3561.0%Total premiums and services revenue$9,23325.3%

Employer Group Commercial Coverage

Our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance
levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through HMO, PPO, or POS plans, or self-funded basis. Our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools,
and spending accounts. We participate in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, primarily with our HMO offering in certain markets. FEHBP is the government’s health insurance program for Federal employees, retirees, former
employees, family members, and spouses. As with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include HumanaVitality’s wellness offerings.

Our administrative services only, or ASO, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. We receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the
processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. These products may include all of the same benefit and product design
characteristics of our fully-insured HMO, PPO, or POS products described previously. Under ASO contracts, self-funded employers retain the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. However, more than half of our ASO
customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs.

As
with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products.

Group Medicare Advantage and Medicare stand-alone PDP

We offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace Medicare wrap or Medicare supplement
products with Medicare Advantage or stand-alone PDPs from Humana. These products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual Medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an
employer’s post-retirement benefit structure.







Our Health and Well-Being Services Segment Products

This segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being. These services are sold primarily to other Humana
businesses, as well as external health plan members and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. Our intersegment revenue is described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following table presents our services revenue for the Health and Well-Being Services segment by line of business for the year ended December 31, 2011:



Health and Well-Being Services SegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent ofConsolidatedPremiums andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Intersegment revenue:Pharmacy solutions$9,886n/aPrimary care services185n/aIntegrated wellness services175n/aHome care services84n/aTotal intersegment revenue$10,330External services revenue:Primary care services$8802.5%Integrated wellness services120.0%Pharmacy solutions110.0%Total external services revenue$9032.5%

n/a – not applicable

Pharmacy solutions

Humana Pharmacy Solutions®, or HPS, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to
providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. HPS also operates prescription mail order services for brand and generic drugs, specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through RightSourceRx®, as well as research services.

Primary care services

Our subsidiary, Concentra Inc.®, acquired in December 2010,
delivers occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities.

In addition to Concentra, our primary care services also include our CAC Medical Centers, or CAC, in South Florida. CAC operates
full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care physicians and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry.

Integrated wellness services

Corphealth, Inc. (d/b/a LifeSynch®), a Humana subsidiary, offers
disease management services through an innovative suite of integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services. LifeSynch’s integrated wellness services
include Hummingbird Coaching®, a wellness coaching company that offers a comprehensive turn-key coaching
program, an enhancement to a medically based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient.







HumanaVitality, LLC, a joint venture with Discovery Holdings Ltd.,
provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual’s needs and wants. HumanaVitality®became available to certain of our members in mid-2011. A key element of the program includes a sophisticated
health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program.

Home care services

Humana Cares®provides innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and
aging-in-place members and their care givers.

Other Businesses

Products and services offered by our Other Businesses are described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our
premiums and services revenue for our Other Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011:



Other BusinessesPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent ofConsolidatedPremiums andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Military services$3,6169.9%Medicaid9192.5%LI-NET2530.7%Closed-block long-term care390.1%Total premiums4,82713.2%Services850.3%Total premiums and services revenue$4,91213.5%

Military Services

Under our TRICARE South Region contract with the United States Department of Defense, or DoD, we provide health insurance coverage to the dependents of active duty military personnel and to retired
military personnel and their dependents. Currently, three health benefit options are available to TRICARE beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in a HMO-like plan with a point-of-service option or take
advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a PPO.

We have participated in the
TRICARE program since 1996 under contracts with the Department of Defense. Our current TRICARE South Region contract, which we were awarded in 2003, covers approximately 3.0 million eligible beneficiaries as of December 31, 2011 in
Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Louisiana, Arkansas, Texas, and Oklahoma. The South Region is one of the three regions in the United States as defined by the Department of Defense. Of these eligible beneficiaries,
1.3 million were TRICARE ASO members representing active duty beneficiaries and seniors over the age of 65 for which the Department of Defense retains all of the risk of financing the cost of their health benefit. We have subcontracted with
third parties to provide selected administration and specialty services under the contract. The original 5-year South Region contract expired on March 31, 2009 and was extended through March 31, 2012. On February 25, 2011, the
Department of Defense TRICARE Management Activity, or TMA, awarded the new TRICARE South Region contract to us, which we expect to take effect on April 1, 2012. The new 5-year South Region contract, which expires March 31, 2017, is subject
to annual renewals on April 1 of each year during its term at the government’s option.







Under the current TRICARE South Region contract, any variance from the negotiated target
health care cost is shared with the federal government. Accordingly, events and circumstances not contemplated in the negotiated target health care cost amount may have a material adverse effect on us. These changes may include an increase or
reduction in the number of persons enrolled or eligible to enroll due to the federal government’s decision to increase or decrease U.S. military deployments.

The TRICARE South Region contract represents approximately 97% of total military services premiums and services revenue.

Medicaid

Medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to
facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. Each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a Medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by CMS. CMS requires that Medicaid
managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. States currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one
or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. In either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. Under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a
government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. Due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their
Medicaid programs.

Our Medicaid business consists of contracts in Puerto Rico and Florida, with the vast majority in Puerto
Rico.

LI-NET

In 2010, we began to administer CMS’s LI-NET program. This program allows individuals who receive Medicare’s low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point
of sale if they are not already enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan. CMS temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both Medicare and Medicaid into the LI-NET program, and subsequently transitions each member into a Medicare Part D plan
that may or may not be a Humana Medicare plan.

Closed Block of Long-Term Care Insurance

We acquired a closed block of approximately 35,000 long-term care policies in connection with our acquisition of KMG America Corporation
in 2007. Long-term care policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. No new
policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block.







Membership

The following table summarizes our total medical membership at December 31, 2011, by market and product:



Retail SegmentEmployer Group Segment(in thousands)IndividualMedicareAdvantageIndividualMedicarestand-alone PDPIndividualCommercialFully-insuredcommercialGroupGroupMedicareAdvantageand stand-alone PDPASOOtherBusinessesTotalPercentof TotalFlorida362.1169.980.5149.719.270.10851.57.6%Texas118.6204.174.7266.85.1108.70778.07.0%Kentucky43.146.021.499.029.4513.10752.06.7%Illinois64.582.737.8170.75.6118.9(a)0480.24.3%Ohio51.083.76.352.0122.4152.80468.24.2%Wisconsin44.448.815.482.812.3142.90346.63.1%Georgia53.753.441.682.36.644.60282.22.5%Missouri/Kansas69.9134.014.143.66.08.90276.52.5%Tennessee87.870.117.536.62.731.80246.52.2%California17.2215.93.10.2000236.42.1%Louisiana91.332.714.043.67.224.10212.91.9%Indiana42.167.95.920.33.547.90187.61.7%North Carolina62.191.46.40.21.900162.01.5%Michigan35.180.912.515.46.29.30159.41.4%Virginia57.872.93.702.500136.91.2%Arizona36.239.816.324.53.56.70127.01.1%Colorado21.835.434.119.25.10.40116.01.0%Military services0000001,722.91,722.915.4%Military services ASO0000001,305.21,305.211.7%Medicaid and other000000614.2614.25.5%LI-NET00000073.573.50.7%Others381.61,010.887.973.355.639.701,648.914.7%Totals1,640.32,540.4493.21,180.2294.81,319.93,715.811,184.6100.0%



(a)Includes 27,600 Medicare Advantage ASO members.

Provider Arrangements

We provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted,
including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care physicians, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. These ancillary services and
facilities include ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. Our membership base and the ability to influence where our
members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers.

We use a variety of techniques to
provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. These techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems and enrolling members into
various disease management programs. The focal point for health care services in many of our HMO networks is the primary care physician who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate
services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. Some physicians may have







arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. Our hospitalist programs use specially-trained physicians to
effectively manage the entire range of an HMO member’s medical care during a hospital admission and to effectively coordinate the member’s discharge and post-discharge care. We have available a variety of disease management programs
related to specific medical conditions such as congestive heart failure, coronary artery disease, prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions.

We typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or
diagnosis-related groups (DRG), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. Outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory
payment classifications, or APCs, or at a discounted charge. APCs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. These contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are
adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index or other nationally recognized inflation indexes. Outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are
reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the Medicare allowable fee schedule.

Our contracts with
physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. Most of the physicians in our PPO networks and
some of our physicians in our HMO networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard Medicare allowable fee schedule.

The Budget Control Act of 2011 established a twelve-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit
Reduction to propose legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. The failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by December 23,
2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. At this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various Medicare healthcare
programs or the timing when such reductions may begin. We expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. Due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of
any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the Medicare healthcare programs applied by the Budget Control Act of 2011.

Capitation

For approximately 1.0% of our medical membership, including
3.3% of our total Medicare Advantage membership, at December 31, 2011, we contract with hospitals and physicians to accept financial risk for a defined set of HMO membership. In transferring this risk, we prepay these providers a monthly
fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to coordinate substantially all of the medical care for their capitated HMO membership, including some health benefit administrative functions and claims processing. For these
capitated HMO arrangements, we generally agree to reimbursement rates that target a benefit ratio. The benefit ratio measures underwriting profitability and is computed by taking total benefit expenses as a percentage of premiums revenue. Providers
participating in hospital-based capitated HMO arrangements generally receive a monthly payment for all of the services within their system for their HMO membership. Providers participating in physician-based capitated HMO arrangements generally have
subcontracted directly with hospitals and specialist physicians, and are responsible for reimbursing such hospitals and specialist physicians for services rendered to their HMO membership.

For approximately 8.6% of our medical membership, including 19.0% of our total Medicare Advantage membership, at December 31, 2011,
we contract with physicians under risk-sharing arrangements whereby







physicians have assumed some level of risk for all or a portion of the medical costs of their HMO membership. Although these arrangements do include physician capitation payments for services
rendered, we share hospital and other benefit expenses and process substantially all of the claims under these arrangements.

Physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician’s financial risk for any single
member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. We monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. However, we remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers
fail to provide such services.

Medical membership under these various arrangements was as follows at December 31, 2011
and 2010:



Medical MembershipDecember 31, 2011December 31, 2010Capitated HMO hospital system based34,4000.3%34,8000.3%Capitated HMO physician group based75,1000.7%52,5000.5%Risk-sharing963,6008.6%910,7008.9%Other10,111,50090.4%9,288,60090.3%Total11,184,600100.0%10,286,600100.0%

Capitation expense as a percentage of total benefit expense was as follows for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009:



201120102009(dollars in millions)Benefit Expenses:Capitated HMO expense$5051.8%$4361.6%$4591.9%Other benefit expense28,31898.2%26,68198.4%24,32598.1%Consolidated benefit expense$28,823100.0%$27,117100.0%$24,784100.0%

Accreditation Assessment

Our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well
as external accreditation standards. We also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the Health Care Effectiveness Data and Information Sets, or HEDIS, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the National
Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction.

Physicians participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. Most participating hospitals also
meet accreditation criteria established by CMS and/or the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.

Recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. Recredentialing of
participating physicians includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. A committee,
composed of a peer group of physicians, reviews the applications of physicians being considered for credentialing and recredentialing.

We request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from NCQA, the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission, or
URAC. Accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of Florida and Kansas for licensure as an HMO. Certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request
is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans.







NCQA performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement,
credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. We have achieved and maintained NCQA accreditation in all of our commercial, Medicare and Medicaid HMO/POS markets with enough history and membership,
except Puerto Rico, and for many of our PPO markets.

Sales and Marketing

We use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the Internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings.

At December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 2,000 sales representatives, as well as approximately 900
telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of Medicare products in our Retail segment by making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. We also market our Medicare products via a strategic alliance with
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or Wal-Mart. This alliance includes stationing Humana representatives in certain Wal-Mart stores, SAM’S CLUB locations, and Neighborhood Markets across the country providing an opportunity to enroll Medicare eligible
individuals in person. In addition, we market our Medicare products through licensed independent brokers and agents including strategic alliances with State Farm®and United Services Automobile Association, or USAA. Commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit
commission structure approved by CMS. For our Retail segment, we also offer commercial health insurance and specialty products directly to individuals.

In our Employer Group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial HMOs and PPOs through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health
insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. We attempt to become an employer’s or group’s exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a
variety of HMO, PPO, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. We also sell group Medicare Advantage products through large employers.

For both our Retail and Employer Group segments, at December 31, 2011, we used licensed independent brokers and agents
and approximately 1,100 licensed employees to sell our commercial insurance products. Many of our employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care
products. We generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. In addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay
brokers and agents based on other metrics. These include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. We also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple
customers.

Underwriting

Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. In most instances, employer
and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. Small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and
prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. Beginning in 2014, the Health Insurance Reform Legislation requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and
renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments.

Underwriting techniques are not
employed in connection with our Medicare, military services, or Medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history.







Competition

The health benefits industry is highly competitive. Our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other HMOs and PPOs, including HMOs and
PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans. Many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. Our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be
influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2011 Form 10-K.

Government
Regulation

Diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects
of the nation’s health care system.

Our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and
regulations affecting our business. We are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of
the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

For a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2011 Form 10-K.

Other

Captive
Insurance Company

We bear general business risks associated with operating our Company such as professional and
general liability, employee workers’ compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. Professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit
coverage. We retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. We reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance
companies. We remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses.

Centralized Management Services

We provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. These services include management information systems,
product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, and customer service.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2011, we had approximately 40,000 employees, including approximately 2,050 medical professionals working under management agreements between Concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. We believe we have good relations
with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages.







