ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Humana Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as “we,”
“us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Humana,” is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong
well-being. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 12.1 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 8.1 million members in our specialty products. During 2012, 75% of our total premiums and services
revenue were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 15% derived from our Medicare Advantage contracts in Florida with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, under which we provide health insurance coverage to
approximately 384,200 members as of December 31, 2012.

Humana Inc. was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1964. Our
principal executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. We have made available free of charge through the
Investor Relations section of our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2012 Form 10-K, contains both historical and forward-looking information. See Item 1A. –
Risk Factors in this 2012 Form 10-K for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business.

Health
Insurance Reform

In March 2010, the President signed into law The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (which we collectively refer to as the Health Insurance Reform Legislation) which enact significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S. health insurance industry. There are many provisions of
the legislation that will require additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impacts of the legislation on our overall business, which we expect to occur over the next
several years.

Certain significant provisions of the Health Insurance Reform Legislation include, among others, mandated
coverage requirements, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare Advantage premiums, the establishment of federally facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs







designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. Implementation dates of the Health Insurance Reform
Legislation began in September 2010 and continue through 2018. The Health Insurance Reform Legislation is discussed more fully in Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under
the section titled “Health Insurance Reform.”

Business Segments

We manage our business with three reportable segments: Retail, Employer Group, and Health and Well-Being Services. In addition, the Other
Businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles. These segments are based on a combination of the type of health
plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer to assess performance
and allocate resources.

The Retail segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health
insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals. The Employer Group segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty
health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, as well as administrative services only products marketed to employer groups. The Health and Well-Being Services segment includes
services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including provider services, pharmacy, integrated wellness, and home care services. The Other Businesses category consists of our military
services, primarily our TRICARE South Region contract, Medicaid, and closed-block long-term care businesses as well as our contract with CMS to administer the Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition program, or the LI-NET program.

The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. Transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of
services rendered by our Health and Well-Being Services segment, primarily pharmacy, behavioral health, and provider services, to our Retail and Employer Group customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in
consolidation. Members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the
profitability of each segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting
segment operations, interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These items are managed at the corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment
eliminations.

Our Products

Our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. These products may vary in
the degree to which members have coverage. Health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, generally require a referral from the member’s primary care provider before seeing certain specialty physicians. Preferred provider organizations, or PPOs,
provide members the freedom to choose a health care provider without requiring a referral. However PPOs generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider’s fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider
participating in the PPO’s network. Point of Service, or POS, plans combine the advantages of HMO plans with the flexibility of PPO plans. In general, POS plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from
a provider within the plan’s network or outside the network. In addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy, provider services, integrated wellness, and
home care services. At the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement,







and sophisticated data analytics. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused.
The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. The discussion that follows describes the products offered
by each of our segments.

Our Retail Segment Products

This segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our
premiums and services revenue for the Retail segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2012:



Retail SegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Individual Medicare Advantage$20,78853.7%Individual Medicare stand-alone PDP2,5876.7%Total individual Medicare23,37560.4%Individual commercial1,0042.6%Individual specialty1710.4%Total premiums24,55063.4%Services240.1%Total premiums and services revenue$24,57463.5%

Individual Medicare

We have participated in the Medicare program for private health plans for over 25 years and have established a national presence, offering
at least one type of Medicare plan in all 50 states. We have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of PPO and HMO providers. We employ strategies including health assessments
and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide Medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. We believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur
from making positive behavior changes.

Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled
persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. CMS, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, administers the Medicare program. Hospitalization benefits are provided under Part A,
without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician
care and other services under Part B. Beneficiaries eligible for Part A and Part B coverage under original Medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. Throughout this document this program is referred to
as original Medicare. As an alternative to original Medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with CMS pursuant to the Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a
Medicare Advantage organization under Medicare Part C. Pursuant to Medicare Part C, Medicare Advantage organizations contract with CMS to offer Medicare Advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original
Medicare. Our Medicare Advantage plans are discussed more fully below. Prescription drug benefits are provided under Part D.







Individual Medicare Advantage Products

We contract with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including
wellness programs, to Medicare eligible persons under HMO, PPO, and Private Fee-For-Service, or PFFS, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from CMS, usually a fixed payment per member per month. With each of these products, the
beneficiary receives benefits in excess of original Medicare, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to
guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly Part B premium. Most Medicare Advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under Part D as part
of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. Accordingly, all of the provisions of the Medicare Part D program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to
most of our Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for Medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our
plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1.

Our
Medicare HMO and PPO plans, which cover Medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network
providers or in emergency situations. Except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most HMO plans provide no out-of-network benefits. PPO plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. In some
cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the HMO or PPO plan in addition to the monthly Part B premium they are required to pay the Medicare program.

On January 1, 2011, most of our members enrolled in PFFS plans transitioned to networked-based PPO type products due to a
requirement that Medicare Advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that CMS determines have fewer than two network-based Medicare Advantage plans. Our Medicare PFFS plans generally have no preferred
network. Individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical Medicare Advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to original Medicare payment rates.

CMS uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit
plans. These rates are adjusted under CMS’s risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of
1997 (BBA) and the Benefits and Improvement Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings
(hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information
to CMS within prescribed deadlines.

At December 31, 2012, we provided health insurance coverage under CMS contracts to
approximately 1,927,600 individual Medicare Advantage members, including approximately 384,200 members in Florida. These Florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $5.9 billion, which represented approximately 28% of our
individual Medicare Advantage premiums revenue, or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Our HMO and PPO products covered under Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by August 1 of the
calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare
Advantage products have been renewed for 2013, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2013 have been approved.







Individual Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products

We offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under Medicare Part D, including a PDP plan co-branded with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.,
or the Humana-Walmart plan. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1. Our stand-alone PDP offerings consist of
plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by Congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. Our revenues from CMS and the beneficiary are
determined from our PDP bids submitted annually to CMS. These revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the section titled “Medicare Part D Provisions.” Our stand-alone PDP contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew
by August 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS
relating to our Medicare stand-alone PDP products have been renewed for 2013, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2013 have been approved.

Medicare and Medicaid Dual Eligible

Medicare beneficiaries who also
qualify for Medicaid due to low income or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. There were approximately 9 million dual eligible individuals in the United States in 2012. These dual eligibles may enroll in a
privately-offered Medicare Advantage product, but may also receive assistance from Medicaid for Medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing. As of December 31, 2012, we served
approximately 285,500 dual eligible members in our Medicare Advantage plans and approximately 697,300 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans. During 2012, we were successful in our bids for Medicaid business in Ohio,
Illinois, and Kentucky, including dual eligible beneficiaries in both Ohio and Illinois. We partnered with CareSource Management Group Company to serve the Ohio and Kentucky individuals under a March 2012 strategic alliance agreement.

Individual Commercial Coverage

Our individual health plans, marketed under the HumanaOne®brand, include offerings designed to promote wellness and engage consumers. HumanaOne plans are designed specifically for self-employed entrepreneurs, small-business
employees, part-time workers, students, and early retirees and include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices, as well as HumanaVitality®, our wellness and loyalty rewards program.

Our HumanaOne plans primarily are offered as PPO plans in select markets where we can generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. This individual product
includes provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as the individual chooses.

The HumanaOne
plans can be further customized with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a broad portfolio of financial protection products.







Our Employer Group Segment Products

This segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion
that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Employer Group segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2012:



Employer 
GroupSegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Fully-insured commercial group$4,99612.9%Group Medicare Advantage4,06410.5%Group Medicare stand-alone PDP80.0%Total group Medicare4,07210.5%Group specialty1,0702.8%Total premiums10,13826.2%Services3580.9%Total premiums and services revenue$10,49627.1%

Employer Group Commercial Coverage

Our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple
in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through HMO, PPO, or POS plans, or self-funded basis. Our plans integrate clinical programs, plan
designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. We participate in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, primarily with our HMO offering in certain markets. FEHBP is the government’s health insurance program for Federal
employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. As with our individual commercial products, the employer group offerings include HumanaVitality®, our wellness and loyalty reward program.

Our administrative services only, or ASO, products are offered to employers who self-insure their employee health plans. We receive fees
to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. These products
may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured HMO, PPO, or POS products described previously. Under ASO contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing substantially all of the
cost of health benefits. However, more than half of our ASO customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs.

As with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and
a broad portfolio of financial protection products.

Group Medicare Advantage and Medicare stand-alone PDP

We offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace Medicare wrap or
Medicare supplement products with Medicare Advantage or stand-alone PDPs from Humana. These products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual Medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to
closely match an employer’s post-retirement benefit structure.







Our Health and Well-Being Services Segment Products

This segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that promote health and well-being. These services are sold primarily to other Humana
businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. Our intersegment revenue is described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following table presents our services revenue for the Health and Well-Being Services segment by line of business for the year ended December 31, 2012:



Health and 
Well-Being Services SegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Intersegment revenue:Pharmacy solutions$11,352n/aProvider services214n/aIntegrated wellness services219n/aHome care services167n/aTotal intersegment revenue$11,952External services revenue:Provider services$9672.5%Home care services400.1%Pharmacy solutions160.0%Integrated wellness services130.0%Total external services revenue$1,0362.6%

n/a – not applicable

Pharmacy solutions

Humana Pharmacy Solutions®, or HPS, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to
providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. HPS also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through RightSourceRx®, as well as research services.

Provider services

Our subsidiary, Concentra Inc.®, acquired in December 2010,
delivers primary care, occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities.

Our CAC Medical Centers, or CAC, in South Florida operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care providers
and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry.

We acquired Metropolitan Health Networks, Inc., or Metropolitan, on December 21, 2012, and we acquired a noncontrolling equity interest in MCCI Holdings, LLC, or MCCI, on October 29, 2012.
Metropolitan and MCCI are Medical Services Organizations, or MSOs, that coordinate medical care for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients, primarily in Florida and Texas. The Metropolitan and MCCI transactions are expected to
provide us with components of a successful integrated care delivery model that has demonstrated scalability to new markets. A substantial portion of the revenues for both Metropolitan and MCCI are derived from services provided to Humana Medicare
Advantage members under capitation contracts with our health







plans. In addition, Metropolitan and MCCI provide services to Medicare Advantage and Medicaid members under capitation contracts with third party health plans. Under these capitation agreements
with Humana and third party health plans, Metropolitan and MCCI assume financial risk associated with these Medicare Advantage and Medicaid members.

Integrated wellness services

Corphealth, Inc.
(d/b/a LifeSynch®), a Humana subsidiary, offers care management services through an innovative suite of
integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services. LifeSynch’s integrated wellness services include Hummingbird Coaching®, a wellness coaching company that offers a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically
based coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient.

HumanaVitality, LLC,
a joint venture with Discovery Holdings Ltd., provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual’s
needs and wants. HumanaVitality®became available to certain of our members in mid-2011. A key element of the
program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program.

Home
care services

Home care services include the operations of SeniorBridge Family Companies, Inc.,
or SeniorBridge, acquired July 6, 2012, and Humana Cares®. As a chronic-care provider of in-home care for
seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. We focus our deployment of these
services in geographies, such as Florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions.

Other Businesses

Products and services offered by our Other Businesses are described in the discussion that follows. The following table
presents our premiums and services revenue for our Other Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2012:



Other 
BusinessesPremiums andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Military services$1,0172.6%Medicaid1,0032.6%LI-NET2660.7%Closed-block long-term care350.1%Total premiums2,3216.0%Services3080.8%Total premiums and services revenue$2,6296.8%

Military Services

Under our TRICARE South Region contract with the United States Department of Defense, or DoD, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military







personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. Currently, three health benefit options are available to TRICARE beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity option,
participants may enroll in an HMO-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a PPO.

Our previous
TRICARE South Region contract that expired on March 31, 2012, provided a financial interest in the underlying health care cost; therefore, we reported revenues on a gross basis. We shared the risk with the federal government for the cost of
health benefits incurred under our previous contract, earning more revenue or incurring additional cost based on the variance of actual health care costs from an annually negotiated target health care cost. The TRICARE South Region contract
represented approximately 93% of total military services premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.

Medicaid

Medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to
facilitate the delivery of health care services primarily to low-income residents. Each electing state develops, through a state-specific regulatory agency, a Medicaid managed care initiative that must be approved by CMS. CMS requires that Medicaid
managed care plans meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. States currently either use a formal proposal process in which they review many bidders before selecting one
or award individual contracts to qualified bidders who apply for entry to the program. In either case, the contractual relationship with a state generally is for a one-year period. Under these contracts, we receive a fixed monthly payment from a
government agency for which we are required to provide health insurance coverage to enrolled members. Due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform and budgetary constraints, more states are utilizing a managed care product in their
Medicaid programs.

Our Medicaid business consists of contracts in Puerto Rico and Florida, with the vast majority in Puerto
Rico.

LI-NET

In 2010, we began to administer CMS’s LI-NET program. This program allows individuals who receive Medicare’s low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point
of sale if they are not already enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan. CMS temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both Medicare and Medicaid into the LI-NET program, and subsequently transitions each member into a Medicare Part D plan
that may or may not be a Humana Medicare plan.







Closed Block of Long-Term Care Insurance

We have a closed block of approximately 34,000 long-term care policies associated with our acquisition of KMG America Corporation in 2007.
Long-term care policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities, and adult day care as well as home health care services. No new policies have
been written since 2005 under this closed block.

Membership

The following table summarizes our total medical membership at December 31, 2012, by market and product:



Retail SegmentEmployer Group Segment(in thousands)IndividualMedicareAdvantageIndividualMedicarestand-alone PDPIndividualCommercialFully-insuredcommercialGroupGroupMedicareAdvantageand stand-alone PDPASOOtherBusinessesTotalPercentof TotalTexas153.4223.677.0289.553.2122.20918.97.6%Florida384.2193.078.7147.921.437.80863.07.1%Kentucky44.655.222.198.634.0507.70762.26.3%Illinois70.9101.840.5153.35.9131.7(a)0504.14.2%Ohio53.3103.96.350.0141.6146.50501.64.1%Wisconsin50.857.914.098.012.5138.70371.93.1%California25.6310.54.10.20.100340.52.8%Georgia63.362.454.496.87.644.20328.72.7%Missouri/Kansas79.5147.014.444.25.38.00298.42.5%Tennessee101.976.618.239.82.032.00270.52.2%Louisiana105.935.916.444.17.729.70239.72.0%North Carolina70.4107.35.90.10.600184.31.5%Michigan44.596.110.512.412.12.80178.41.5%Indiana44.878.26.321.32.024.70177.31.5%Virginia75.583.94.002.500165.91.4%Arizona44.944.716.024.51.65.30137.01.1%Colorado25.645.437.818.36.60.40134.11.1%Military services0000003,123.93,123.925.8%Medicaid and other000000610.8610.85.1%LI-NET00000067.167.10.6%Others488.51,162.294.872.858.533.701,910.515.8%Totals1,927.62,985.6521.41,211.8375.21,265.43,801.812,088.8100.0%



(a)Includes 27,700 Medicare Advantage ASO members.

Provider Arrangements

We provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we own or with whom we have
contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. These ancillary services
and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. Our membership base and the ability to
influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers.







We use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health
care services for our members. These techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care
management programs. The focal point for health care services in many of our HMO networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or
approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. Some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. We have
available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. We also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease,
diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions.

We typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate,
which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (DRG), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. Outpatient hospital services generally are
contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or APCs, or at a discounted charge. APCs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. These contracts
are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. Outpatient surgery centers and other
ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the Medicare allowable fee schedule.

Our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging
from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. Most of the physicians in our PPO networks and some of our physicians in our HMO networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides
for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard Medicare allowable fee schedule.

The terms of our contracts with
hospitals and physicians may also vary between Medicare and commercial business. A significant portion of our Medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to Medicare reimbursement levels and
methodologies.

The Budget Control Act of 2011 established a twelve-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint
Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose legislation to reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. The failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to achieve a targeted deficit
reduction by December 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction, including aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. Although these reductions are scheduled to take effect on March 1, 2013,
at this time it is unclear how this automatic reduction may be applied to various Medicare healthcare programs or the timing of when such reductions may actually begin. We expect that if such reductions were to occur, there would be a corresponding
substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. Due to the uncertainty around the timing or application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we could completely offset any reductions to the Medicare healthcare programs
applied by the Budget Control Act of 2011.

Capitation

For some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership,
primarily HMO. Under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member.







We believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery
model at the core of our strategy. Our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries, including Metropolitan, an MSO acquired December 21, 2012.

At December 31, 2012, approximately 1,131,700 members, or 9.4% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts,
including 511,700 individual Medicare Advantage members, or 26.5% of our total individual Medicare Advantage membership.

Physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician’s financial risk for any single
member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. We typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. However, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation
arrangements covering approximately 124,500 HMO members, including 73,500 individual Medicare Advantage members, at December 31, 2012, with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members’ health care
benefits. Capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $633 million, or 2.0% of total benefits expense, for the year ended December 31, 2012. We
remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services.

Accreditation Assessment

Our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed
to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies, as well as external accreditation standards. We also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the Health Care Effectiveness Data and Information Sets, or HEDIS,
which is used by employers, government purchasers and the National Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction.

Providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards,
after-hours coverage, and other factors. Most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by CMS and/or the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations.

Recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable state laws. Recredentialing of
participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses; review of their malpractice liability claims histories; review of their board certifications, if applicable; and review of applicable quality information. A committee, composed
of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing.

We request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from NCQA, the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory
Health Care, and the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission, or URAC. Accreditation or external review by an approved organization is mandatory in the states of Florida and Kansas for licensure as an HMO. Certain commercial businesses, like
those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans.

NCQA performs reviews of our compliance with standards for quality improvement, credentialing, utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. We have achieved and
maintained NCQA accreditation in most of our commercial, Medicare and Medicaid HMO/POS markets with enough history and membership, except Puerto Rico, and for many of our PPO markets.

Sales and Marketing

We use various methods to market our products,
including television, radio, the Internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings.







In our Employer Group segment, individuals may become
members of our commercial HMOs and PPOs through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums
payable by the employees. We attempt to become an employer’s or group’s exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of HMO, PPO, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage
consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. We also sell group Medicare Advantage products through large employers. We use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. Many
of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. We pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for
our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products.

Underwriting

Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determine the risk we are willing to assume and the amount of premium to
charge for our commercial products. In most instances, employer and other groups must meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage. Small group laws in some states have imposed regulations which provide for
guaranteed issue of certain health insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates charged based upon assessment of health conditions. Beginning in 2014, the Health Insurance Reform Legislation requires all
individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments.

Underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our Medicare, military services, or Medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of
their health or prior medical history.

Competition

The health benefits industry is highly competitive. Our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other HMOs and PPOs, including HMOs and
PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans. Many of our competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. Our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be
influenced by such factors as those described in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2012 Form 10-K.







Government Regulation

Diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation’s health care system.

Our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. We are unable to
predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any
such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

For a description of
certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2012 Form 10-K.

Certain Other Services

Captive Insurance Company

We bear general business risks associated with operating our Company such as professional and general liability, employee workers’
compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. Professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. We retain certain of these risks
through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. We reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. We remain liable in the event
these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses.

Centralized Management Services

We provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our
headquarters and service centers. These services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal
audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 43,400 employees and approximately 2,400 medical professionals working under management
agreements between Concentra and affiliated physician-owned associations. We believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages.







