ITEM 1.BUSINESS

General

Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Humana Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as “we,”
“us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Humana,” is a leading health care company that offers a wide range of insurance products and health and wellness services that incorporate an integrated approach to lifelong
well-being. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 12.0 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 7.8 million members in our specialty products. During 2013, 75% of our total premiums and services
revenue were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 15% derived from our individual Medicare Advantage contracts in Florida with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, under which we provide health insurance
coverage to approximately 415,200 members as of December 31, 2013.

Humana Inc. was organized as a Delaware corporation
in 1964. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. We have made available free of charge
through the Investor Relations section of our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2013 Form 10-K, contains both historical and forward-looking information. See Item 1A. –
Risk Factors in this 2013 Form 10-K for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business.

Health
Care Reform

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010
(which we collectively refer to as the Health Care Reform Law) enacted significant reforms to various aspects of the U.S. health insurance industry. While regulations and interpretive guidance on many provisions of the Health Care Reform Law have
been issued to date by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Department of Labor, the Treasury Department, and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, there are certain provisions of the law that will require
additional guidance and clarification in the form of regulations and interpretations in order to fully understand the impact of the law on our overall business.







Certain significant provisions of the Health Care Reform Law include, among others, mandated
coverage requirements, mandated benefits and guarantee issuance associated with commercial medical insurance, rebates to policyholders based on minimum benefit ratios, adjustments to Medicare Advantage premiums, the establishment of federally
facilitated or state-based exchanges coupled with programs designed to spread risk among insurers, an annual insurance industry premium-based assessment, and a three-year commercial reinsurance fee. Implementation dates of the Health Care Reform Law
began in September 2010 and continue through 2018. The Health Care Reform Law is discussed more fully in Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the section titled
“Health Care Reform.”

Business Segments

On January 1, 2013, we reclassified certain of our businesses to correspond with internal management reporting changes and renamed our Health and Well-Being Services segment as Healthcare Services.
Our Employer Group segment now includes our health and wellness businesses, including HumanaVitality and Lifesynch’s employee assistance programs, which had historically been reported in our Healthcare Services segment. The Retail segment now
includes our contract with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to administer the Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition, or LI-NET, prescription drug plan program as well as our state-based contracts for Medicaid members, both
of which had historically been reported in our Other Businesses category. Prior period segment financial information has been recast to conform to the 2013 presentation. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.
– Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for segment financial information.

We manage our business with three
reportable segments: Retail, Employer Group, and Healthcare Services. In addition, the Other Businesses category includes businesses that are not individually reportable because they do not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally
accepted accounting principles. These segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on integrated care delivery for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment
groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer to assess performance and allocate resources.

The Retail segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits, including dental,
vision, and other supplemental health and financial protection products, marketed directly to individuals, and includes our contract with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, to administer the LI-NET prescription drug plan program,
and contracts with various states to provide Medicaid, dual eligible, and Long-Term Support Services benefits, collectively our state-based contracts. The Employer Group segment consists of Medicare and commercial fully-insured medical and specialty
health insurance benefits, including dental, vision, and other supplemental health and voluntary benefit products, as well as administrative services only products, or ASO, and our health and wellness products primarily marketed to employer groups.
The Healthcare Services segment includes services offered to our health plan members as well as to third parties, including pharmacy, provider services, home based services, integrated behavioral health services, and predictive modeling and
informatics services. The Other Businesses category consists of our military services, primarily our TRICARE South Region contract, Puerto Rico Medicaid, and closed-block long-term care insurance policies.

The results of each segment are measured by income before income taxes. Transactions between reportable segments consist of sales of
services rendered by our Healthcare Services segment, primarily pharmacy, provider, and behavioral health, to our Retail and Employer Group customers. Intersegment sales and expenses are recorded at fair value and eliminated in consolidation.
Members served by our segments often utilize the same provider networks, enabling us in some instances to obtain more favorable contract terms with providers. Our segments also share indirect costs and assets. As a result, the profitability of each
segment is interdependent. We allocate most operating expenses to our segments. Assets and certain corporate income and expenses are not allocated to the segments, including the portion of investment income not supporting segment operations,
interest expense on corporate debt, and certain other corporate expenses. These items are managed at the corporate level. These corporate amounts are reported separately from our reportable segments and included with intersegment eliminations.







Our Products

Our Retail Segment
Products

This segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental
benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Retail segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2013:



Retail SegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Individual Medicare Advantage$22,48154.9%Medicare stand-alone PDP3,0257.4%Total Retail Medicare25,50662.3%Individual commercial1,1602.8%State-based Medicaid3280.8%Individual specialty2100.5%Total premiums27,20466.4%Services160.1%Total premiums and services revenue$27,22066.5%

Individual Medicare

We have participated in the Medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering
at least one type of Medicare plan in all 50 states. We have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of PPO and HMO providers. We employ strategies including health assessments
and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide Medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. We believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur
from making positive behavior changes.







Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled
persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. CMS, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, administers the Medicare program. Hospitalization benefits are provided under Part A, without
the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care
and other services under Part B. Beneficiaries eligible for Part A and Part B coverage under original Medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. Throughout this document this program is referred to as original
Medicare. As an alternative to original Medicare, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with CMS pursuant to the Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a Medicare
Advantage organization under Medicare Part C. Pursuant to Medicare Part C, Medicare Advantage organizations contract with CMS to offer Medicare Advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under original Medicare. Our
Medicare Advantage plans are discussed more fully below. Prescription drug benefits are provided under Part D.

Individual
Medicare Advantage Products

Our Medicare HMO and PPO plans, which cover Medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce
coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. Except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most HMO plans provide no
out-of-network benefits. PPO plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. In some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the HMO or PPO plan in addition to the monthly Part B
premium they are required to pay the Medicare program.

Most of our Medicare PFFS plans are network-based products with in and
out of network benefits due to a requirement that Medicare Advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that CMS determines have fewer than two network-based Medicare Advantage plans. In these areas, we
offer Medicare PFFS plans that have no preferred network. Individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical Medicare Advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates
equivalent to original Medicare payment rates.

CMS uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed
monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. These rates are adjusted under CMS’s risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS
implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) and the Benefits and Improvement Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital







inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. Under the
risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS within prescribed deadlines.

At December 31, 2013, we provided health insurance coverage under CMS contracts to approximately 2,068,700 individual Medicare
Advantage members, including approximately 415,200 members in Florida. These Florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $6.0 billion, which represented approximately 27% of our individual Medicare Advantage premiums revenue,
or 15% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013.

Our HMO and PPO products
covered under Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our
decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare Advantage products have been renewed for 2014, and all of our product
offerings filed with CMS for 2014 have been approved.

Individual Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products

We offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under Medicare Part D, including a PDP plan co-branded with
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or the Humana-Walmart plan. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1. Our stand-alone PDP
offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by Congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. Our revenues from CMS and
the beneficiary are determined from our PDP bids submitted annually to CMS. These revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the section titled “Medicare Part D Provisions.” Our stand-alone PDP contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision
not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana
and CMS relating to our Medicare stand-alone PDP products have been renewed for 2014, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2014 have been approved.

We have administered CMS’s LI-NET prescription drug plan program since 2010. This program allows individuals who receive Medicare’s low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug
coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan. CMS temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both Medicare and Medicaid into the LI-NET prescription drug plan program, and subsequently
transitions each member into a Medicare Part D plan that may or may not be a Humana Medicare plan.

Medicare and Medicaid
Dual Eligible and Long-Term Care Support Services

Medicare beneficiaries who also qualify for Medicaid due to low income
or special needs are known as dual eligible beneficiaries, or dual eligibles. The dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of Medicaid and Medicare costs. There were approximately 9 million dual eligible individuals in the
United States in 2013, trending upward due to Medicaid eligibility expansions and individuals aging in to the Medicare program. These dual eligibles may enroll in a privately-offered Medicare Advantage product, but may also receive assistance from
Medicaid for Medicaid benefits, such as nursing home care and/or assistance with Medicare premiums and cost sharing. The dual eligible population is a strategic area of focus for us and we are leveraging the capabilities of our integrated care
delivery model, including care management programs particularly as they relate to chronic conditions, to expand our services to this population. As of December 31, 2013, we served approximately 312,300 dual eligible members in our Medicare
Advantage plans and approximately 954,900 dual eligible members in our stand-alone prescription drug plans.







Since the enactment of the Health Care Reform Law, states are pursuing stand-alone dual
eligible CMS demonstration programs in which Medicare, Medicaid, and Long-Term Care Support Services (LTSS) benefits are more tightly integrated. Eligibility for participation in these stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs may require
state-based contractual relationships in existing Medicaid programs. We were successful in our bids for state-based contracts in Florida and Virginia in 2013 and in Ohio, Illinois, and Kentucky in 2012. Ohio, Illinois, and Virginia are contracts for
stand-alone dual eligible demonstration programs serving individuals dually eligible for both the federal Medicare program and the state-based Medicaid program. We partner with organizations, including CareSource Management Group Company, to serve
individuals in certain states. We began serving members in Kentucky and certain LTSS regions in Florida in 2013, and we expect to begin serving new members in Ohio, Illinois, Virginia, and Florida at various dates between the first quarter and third
quarter of 2014.

LTSS eligible beneficiaries heavily overlap with the dual eligible population. On September 6, 2013, we
acquired American Eldercare Inc., or American Eldercare, the largest provider of nursing home diversion services in the state of Florida, serving frail and elderly individuals in home and community-based settings. American Eldercare complements our
core capabilities and strength in serving seniors and disabled individuals with a unique focus on individualized and integrated care, and has contracts to provide Medicaid long-term support services across the entire state of Florida. The enrollment
effective dates for the various regions range from August 2013 to March 2014.

Individual Commercial Coverage

Our individual health plans are marketed under the HumanaOne®brand. We offer products both on and off of the public exchange, including exchange offerings in certain
metropolitan areas in 14 states. We offer products on exchanges where we can achieve an affordable cost of care, including HMO offerings and select networks in most markets. Our off-exchange products offered in 22 states are primarily PPO and POS
offerings, including plans issued prior to 2014 that were previously underwritten. In addition, we offer most of our on exchange products off exchange as well. Policies issued prior to the enactment of the Health Care Reform Law on March 23,
2010 are grandfathered policies. Grandfathered policies are exempt from the requirements of the Health Care Reform Law, including mandated benefits. However, our grandfathered plans include provisions that guarantee renewal of coverage for as long
as the individual chooses. Policies issued between March 23, 2010 and December 31, 2013 are required to conform to the Health Care Reform Law, including mandated benefits, upon renewal in 2014 or 2015, depending on the state.

The initial open enrollment period began for plans effective January 1, 2014 offered through federally facilitated, federal-state
partnerships or state-based exchanges for individuals on October 1, 2013. Federal and state regulatory changes in December 2013 extended the enrollment deadline for January 1, 2014 insurance coverage from December 15, 2013 to
December 24, 2013, required plans to accept payment for policies with a start date of January 1, 2014 as late as December 31, 2013 (we voluntarily extended our deadline for payment to January 31, 2014 and voluntarily extended our
deadline for payment to February 28, 2014 for policies with a start date of February 1), and allowed certain individuals to remain in their existing underwritten off-exchange health plans that are not compliant with the Health Care Reform
Law. Individuals have until March 31, 2014 to enroll for insurance without paying the penalty imposed by the Health Care Reform Law.

Prior to 2014, our HumanaOne®plans primarily were offered as PPO
plans in 27 states where we could generally underwrite risk and utilize our existing networks and distribution channels. As indicated above, this individual product included provisions mandated by law to guarantee renewal of coverage for as long as
the individual chooses.

Rewards-based wellness programs are included with many individual products. We also offer optional
benefits such as dental, vision, life, and a portfolio of financial protection products.







Informatics

As discussed previously, at the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model. We are focused on proactive clinical outreach
and member engagement. Accordingly, our Retail Segment uses the informatics and predictive modeling capabilities of our Healthcare Services segment to identify members in need of clinical intervention, as further described under the section titled
“Our Healthcare Services Segment Products” herein.

Employer Group Segment Products

This segment is comprised of products sold to employer groups including medical and supplemental benefit plans as well as health and
wellness products as described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Employer Group segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2013:



Employer 
GroupSegmentPremiums
andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)External Revenue:Premiums:Fully-insured commercial group$5,11712.5%Group Medicare Advantage4,71011.5%Group Medicare stand-alone PDP80.0%Total group Medicare4,71811.5%Group specialty1,0952.7%Total premiums10,93026.7%Services3570.9%Total premiums and services revenue$11,28727.6%Intersegment services revenue:Wellness$51n/aTotal intersegment services revenue$51

n/a – not applicable

Employer Group Commercial Coverage

Our
commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a
fully-insured, through HMO, PPO, or POS plans, or self-funded basis. Our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts. We participate in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program, or FEHBP, primarily
with our HMO offering in certain markets. FEHBP is the government’s health insurance program for Federal employees, retirees, former employees, family members, and spouses. As with our individual commercial products, the employer group
offerings include HumanaVitality®, our wellness and loyalty reward program.







Our administrative services only, or ASO, products are offered to employers who self-insure
their employee health plans. We receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from
members of self-funded employers. These products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured HMO, PPO, or POS products described previously. Under ASO contracts, self-funded employers generally retain
the risk of financing substantially all of the cost of health benefits. However, more than half of our ASO customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs.

As with individual commercial policies, employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, life, and
a portfolio of voluntary benefit products.

Group Medicare Advantage and Medicare stand-alone PDP

We offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace Medicare wrap or Medicare supplement
products with Medicare Advantage or stand-alone PDPs from Humana. These products offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual Medicare plans discussed previously and can be tailored to closely match an
employer’s post-retirement benefit structure.

Wellness

We offer wellness solutions including our Humana Vitality®wellness and loyalty rewards program, health coaching, and fitness programs.

We provide employee assistance programs and coaching services primarily to our employer group customers. Services include a comprehensive turn-key coaching program, an enhancement to a medically based
coaching protocol and a platform that makes coaching programs more efficient.

HumanaVitality, LLC, a joint venture with
Discovery Holdings Ltd., provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual’s needs and wants. A
key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an actuarially sound incentive program.







Our Healthcare Services Segment Products

The products offered by our Healthcare Services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. This segment is comprised of
stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, home based services, integrated behavioral health services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other Humana businesses, as well as external
health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. Our intersegment revenue is described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.
– Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following table presents our services revenue for the Healthcare Services segment by line of business for the year ended December 31, 2013:



Healthcare 
ServicesSegmentPremiums andServices
RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Intersegment revenue:Pharmacy solutions$13,079n/aProvider services1,120n/aHome based services326n/aIntegrated behavioral health services126n/aTotal intersegment revenue$14,651External services revenue:Provider services$1,1272.8%Home based services940.2%Pharmacy solutions590.1%Integrated behavioral health services20.0%Total external services revenue$1,2823.1%

n/a – not applicable

Pharmacy solutions

Humana Pharmacy Solutions®, or HPS, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to
providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. HPS also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through RightSourceRx®, as well as research services.

Provider services

Our subsidiary, Concentra Inc.®, acquired in 2010, delivers primary
care, occupational medicine, urgent care, physical therapy, and wellness services to employees and the general public through its operation of medical centers and worksite medical facilities.

Our CAC Medical Centers, or CAC, in South Florida operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers staffed by primary care providers
and medical specialists practicing cardiology, endocrinology, geriatric medicine, internal medicine, ophthalmology, neurology, and podiatry.

Our subsidiary, Metropolitan Health Networks, Inc., or Metropolitan, and our noncontrolling equity interest in MCCI Holdings, LLC, or MCCI, both acquired in 2012, are Medical Services Organizations, or
MSOs, that coordinate medical care for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries and Medicaid recipients, primarily in Florida and Texas. These MSOs represent key components of our integrated care delivery model which we believe is scalable to new markets.







Integrated behavioral health services

Corphealth, Inc. (d/b/a LifeSynch®), a Humana subsidiary, offers care management services through an innovative suite of integrated products, integrating behavioral health services with wellness
programs, and employee assistance programs and work-life services.

Home based services

Via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our
customers with the greatest needs.

Home based services include the operations of SeniorBridge Family
Companies, Inc., or SeniorBridge, acquired in 2012, and Humana Cares®. As a chronic-care provider of in-home
care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. We focus our deployment
of these services in geographies, such as Florida, with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions.

Informatics

We supplement our existing clinical capabilities with
technology. We believe that technology represents a significant opportunity in health care that positively impacts our members. We have enhanced our health information technology capabilities enabling us to create a more complete view of an
individual’s health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. These capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews millions of clinical data points each day to provide members,
providers, and payers real-time clinical insights and gaps-in-care data to improve health outcomes, as well as technology that allows disparate electronic health record systems and Humana to share data that gives providers a comprehensive view of
the patient and enables the exchange of essential health information in real-time. As we have integrated these and related assets into our operations over the past few years, we have enhanced our ability to leverage predictive modeling capabilities
that enable us to anticipate, rather than react to, our members’ health needs.

Other Businesses

Products and services offered by our Other Businesses are described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our
premiums and services revenue for our Other Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2013:



Other 
BusinessesPremiums andServices RevenuePercent
ofConsolidatedPremiums 
andServices Revenue(dollars in millions)Premiums:Military services$250.1%Puerto Rico Medicaid6291.5%Closed-block long-term care insurance policies410.1%Total premiums6951.7%Services4541.1%Total premiums and services revenue$1,1492.8%

Military Services

Under our TRICARE South Region contract with the United States Department of Defense, or DoD, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military







personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. Currently, three health benefit options are available to TRICARE beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity option,
participants may enroll in an HMO-like plan with a point-of-service option or take advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers, similar to a PPO.

Puerto Rico Medicaid

Our Puerto Rico Medicaid business consisted of contracts with the Puerto Rico Health Insurance Administration, or PRHIA, for the East, Southeast, and Southwest. On June 26, 2013, the Puerto Rico
Health Insurance Administration notified us of its election not to renew these contracts which ended June 30, 2013. Contractual transition provisions required the continuation of insurance coverage for beneficiaries through September 30,
2013 and also require an additional period of time thereafter to process residual claims.

Closed Block of Long-Term
Care Insurance Policies

We have a non-strategic closed block of approximately 33,300 long-term care insurance policies
associated with our acquisition of KMG America Corporation in 2007. Long-term care insurance policies are intended to protect the insured from the cost of long-term care services including those provided by nursing homes, assisted living facilities,
and adult day care as well as home health care services. No new policies have been written since 2005 under this closed block.







Membership

The following table summarizes our total medical membership at December 31, 2013, by market and product:



Retail SegmentEmployer Group Segment(in thousands)IndividualMedicareAdvantageIndividualMedicarestand-alone PDPIndividualCommercialState-basedcontractsFully-insuredcommercialGroupGroupMedicareAdvantageand stand-alone PDPASOOtherBusinessesTotalPercentof TotalFlorida415.2278.682.170.0152.722.838.701,060.18.8%Texas153.9224.3107.70293.658.3111.90949.77.9%Kentucky55.8120.125.015.5104.576.3488.50885.77.4%Ohio61.4105.77.7053.2148.4141.10517.54.3%Illinois72.9106.839.00134.09.093.40455.13.8%California24.2348.65.100.10.10.10378.23.2%Georgia72.263.472.20120.37.641.10376.83.1%Wisconsin49.162.413.6088.713.1116.00342.92.9%Missouri/Kansas81.8140.415.2044.85.37.40294.92.5%Tennessee108.374.322.4044.62.138.80290.52.4%Louisiana114.938.720.8050.46.729.20260.72.2%Virginia107.486.34.3003.500201.51.7%North Carolina71.8117.95.800.10.500196.11.6%Indiana54.278.48.7021.73.718.00184.71.5%Michigan48.696.812.0010.313.12.60183.41.5%Colorado27.661.437.0018.46.20.40151.01.3%Arizona45.253.119.3024.81.52.10146.01.2%Military services00000003,101.83,101.825.9%Others504.21,214.5102.2074.855.133.523.42,007.716.8%Totals2,068.73,271.7600.185.51,237.0433.31,162.83,125.211,984.3100.0%

Provider Arrangements

We provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent
facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. These ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services,
medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. Our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us
to obtain contractual discounts with providers.

We use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient
use of health care services for our members. These techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into
various care management programs. The focal point for health care services in many of our HMO networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by
directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. Some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. We
have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. We also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal
disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions.







We typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an
all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate or diagnosis-related groups (DRG), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge for inpatient hospital services. Outpatient hospital services generally are contracted
at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or APCs, or at a discounted charge. APCs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. These contracts are often
multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. Outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary
providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the Medicare allowable fee schedule.

Our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging
from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. Most of the physicians in our PPO networks and some of our physicians in our HMO networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides
for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard Medicare allowable fee schedule.

The terms of our contracts with
hospitals and physicians may also vary between Medicare and commercial business. A significant portion of our Medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to Medicare reimbursement levels and
methodologies.

The Budget Control Act of 2011, enacted on August 2, 2011, increased the United States debt ceiling
conditioned on deficit reductions to be achieved over the next ten years. The Budget Control Act of 2011 also established a twelve-member joint committee of Congress known as the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose legislation to
reduce the United States federal deficit by $1.5 trillion for fiscal years 2012-2021. The failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to achieve a targeted deficit reduction by December 23, 2011 triggered an automatic reduction,
including aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2 percent per fiscal year. These reductions took effect on April 1, 2013, and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, enacted on December 26, 2013, extended the
reductions for two years. We expect a corresponding substantial reduction in our obligations to providers. Due to the uncertainty around the application of any such reductions, there can be no assurances that we can completely offset any reductions
to the Medicare healthcare programs applied by the Budget Control Act of 2011. See “Legal Proceedings and Certain Regulatory Matters” in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data.

Capitation

For some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership,
primarily HMO membership. Under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated
member.

We believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our
strategy. Our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries, including Metropolitan, an MSO acquired December 21, 2012.

At December 31, 2013, approximately 671,000 members, or 5.6% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts,
including 561,500 individual Medicare Advantage members, or 27.1% of our total individual Medicare Advantage membership. The termination of our Puerto Rico Medicaid contract effective September 30, 2013 resulted in a decline in the total number
of members covered under risk-based contracts from 1,131,700 members at December 31, 2012.







Physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a
physician’s financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. We typically process all claims and monitor the financial performance and solvency of our capitated providers. However, we delegated claim
processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 116,200 HMO members, including 84,400 individual Medicare Advantage members, at December 31, 2013, with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating
the members’ health care benefits. Capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $693 million, or 2.1% of total benefits expense, for the year ended
December 31, 2013. We remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services.

Accreditation Assessment

Our accreditation assessment program consists of
several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. We also offer quality and outcome measurement and
improvement programs such as the Health Care Effectiveness Data and Information Sets, or HEDIS, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the National Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, to evaluate health plans based on various
criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction.

Providers participating in our networks must satisfy
specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. Most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by CMS and/or the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations.

Recredentialing of participating providers occurs every two to three years, depending on applicable
state laws. Recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality
information. A committee, composed of a peer group of providers, reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing.

We request accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from NCQA, the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care, and the URAC. Accreditation or external review by an
approved organization is mandatory in the states of Florida and Kansas for licensure as an HMO. Certain commercial businesses, like those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or
prefer accredited health plans.

NCQA reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, credentialing,
utilization management, member connections, and member rights and responsibilities. We have achieved and maintained NCQA accreditation in most of our commercial, Medicare and Medicaid HMO/POS markets with enough history and membership, except Puerto
Rico, and for many of our PPO markets.

Sales and Marketing

We use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the Internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings.

At December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 1,800 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,100 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of individual Medicare and
individual commercial health insurance and specialty products in our Retail segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. We also market our individual Medicare products via a strategic alliance with
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or Wal-Mart. This alliance includes stationing Humana representatives in certain Wal-Mart stores, SAM’S CLUB locations, and Neighborhood Markets across the country which provides an opportunity to enroll Medicare eligible
individuals in person. In addition, we market our individual Medicare







and individual commercial health insurance and specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. For our Medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives
and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by CMS. For our individual commercial health insurance and specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on
premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. In addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. These include
commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. We also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers.

In our Employer Group segment, individuals may become members of our commercial HMOs and PPOs through their employers or other groups,
which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. We attempt to become an employer’s or group’s
exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of HMO, PPO, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. In addition,
we have begun to offer plans to employer groups through private exchanges. Employers can give their employees a set amount of money and then direct them to a private exchange. There, employees can shop for a health plan and other benefits based on
what the employer has selected as options. We also sell group Medicare Advantage products through large employers. We use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, and employees to sell our group products. Many of our larger employer group
customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. We pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our individual commercial
health insurance and specialty products.

Underwriting

Beginning in 2014, the Health Care Reform Law requires all individual and group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating
adjustments. Accordingly, newly issued individual and group health plans are not subject to underwriting in 2014 and beyond. Further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our Medicare, military services, or Medicaid products
because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or prior medical history.

Prior to 2014, through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, we determined the risk we were willing to assume and the amount of premium to charge for our commercial products. In most
instances, employer and other groups had to meet our underwriting standards in order to qualify to contract with us for coverage.

Competition

The health
benefits industry is highly competitive. Our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other HMOs and PPOs, including HMOs and PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans. Many of our
competitors have larger memberships and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. Our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in the
section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2013 Form 10-K.

Government Regulation

Diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation’s health
care system.







Our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and
regulations affecting our business. We are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of
the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

For a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see the section entitled “Risk Factors” in this 2013 Form 10-K.

Certain Other Services

Captive Insurance Company

We bear general business risks associated with operating our Company such as professional and general liability, employee workers’ compensation, and officer and director errors and omissions risks.
Professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. We retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. We reduce
exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. We remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the
losses.

Centralized Management Services

We provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service
centers. These services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial,
underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service.

Employees

As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 52,000 employees and an additional approximately 2,500 medical professionals working
under management agreements between Concentra and affiliatedphysician-ownedassociations. We believe we have good relations with our employees and have not experienced any work stoppages.







