ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a research-based biopharmaceutical company
that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. With each new discovery and experimental drug candidate, we seek to improve the care of patients suffering from life-threatening diseases around the
world. Gilead’s primary areas of focus include human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/AIDS, liver diseases such as hepatitis B and C and serious cardiovascular/metabolic and respiratory conditions. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have
operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs and through a product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.

Over the past year, we executed our philosophy and strategy to bring best-in-class drugs to market. In keeping with this
strategy, we completed several acquisitions and licensing transactions to enhance our pipeline. We also expanded our single-tablet regimen product offerings for the treatment of HIV with the launch of Complera/Eviplera
(emtricitabine/rilpivirine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and the anticipated 2012 launch of Quad, which combines four of our HIV medicines in a once-daily single-tablet regimen and is pending Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval.

Our largest transaction was the acquisition of Pharmasset, Inc. in January 2012 for $11.1 billion. For several years, we have focused a
large proportion of our research and development effort on discovering and advancing direct-acting antivirals for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV). The HCV therapeutic market has been and continues to be vastly underserved. Due to
the limitations of available therapies, only a small fraction of individuals who are infected with HCV are diagnosed, and an even smaller fraction of those patients are treated. Prior to May 2011, when the first protease inhibitors were approved,
only about half of the patients responded to the standard of care combination of pegylated interferon and ribavirin. The addition of protease inhibitors to the standard of care has resulted in incremental response rates for patients with genotype 1
infection; however, this regimen causes substantial side effects such as fatigue, bone marrow suppression, potentially debilitating rash, anemia and neuropsychiatric effects. As such, discontinuation rates with these triple therapy combinations have
significantly increased.

Over the last two years, we have progressed several early stage HCV molecules with various
mechanisms of action into clinical development. During 2011, the field of HCV research evolved rapidly, and it became clear our HCV portfolio of oral antiviral development compounds would have difficulty competing because it was behind the
development programs of many of our competitors. Through our acquisition of Pharmasset, we gained ownership of GS-7977, the most advanced, and to date the most potent, nucleotide analog that acts to inhibit the replication of HCV with limited safety
or resistance concerns detected thus far. The compound has been studied extensively in Phase 2 studies in genotype 2 and 3 infected patients in combination with ribavirin with or without pegylated interferon and is currently being studied in
genotype 1 infected patients. The first of two Phase 3 trials, known as FISSION, evaluating GS-7977 in genotype 2 and 3 patients is currently enrolling. A second Phase 3 study of genotype 2 and 3 patients is scheduled to begin enrolling in the next
few weeks. If Phase 3 data for genotype 2 and 3 patients is consistent with data from our Phase 2 trials, we would expect to file a new drug application (NDA) for the treatment of genotype 2 and 3 patients in 2013 for potential approval in late 2013
or early 2014.

Two thirds of HCV-infected individuals in the United States and Europe are infected with HCV genotype 1. We
are conducting Phase 2 studies to determine the efficacy of GS-7977 plus ribavirin in this population. Results from these studies will be available over the next several months. We expect the first data evaluating GS-7977 plus ribavirin for 12 weeks
in genotype 1 treatment-naïve patients from an arm of the QUANTUM study with 25 patients will be available at the end of the first quarter of 2012. We expect that this will be followed in the second quarter by data from an arm of the ELECTRON
study involving 25 treatment-naïve patients treated for 12 weeks and, early in the third quarter, data on GS-7977 and ribavirin treatment for 24 weeks from an arm of the QUANTUM study will become available.







On February 17, 2012, we announced that the majority of HCV genotype 1 patients with a prior
“null” response to an interferon-containing regimen enrolled in an arm of our ongoing ELECTRON study experienced viral relapse within four weeks of completing 12 weeks of treatment with GS-7977 plus ribavirin. Ten patients were randomized
to this arm of the ELECTRON study and data were available for eight of the ten patients at the time of the announcement. Among these eight patients, six experienced viral relapse. Two patients had not relapsed; however, they had only reached the two
week post-treatment time point. These data indicate that treatment of genotype 1 patients classified as null responders with GS-7977 plus ribavirin for 12 weeks will not be sufficient to cure their disease. Regulatory authorities require that
patients have a sustained viral response for 12 weeks after the cessation of therapy to be considered “cured” of the disease.

To the extent data from the ELECTRON and QUANTUM studies indicate genotype 1 treatment-naïve patients can be effectively treated using GS-7977 and ribavirin, larger Phase 3 studies in genotype 1
patients are expected to commence in 2012. If we are able to commence Phase 3 trials on that timeline and the results of those trials are positive, we expect to file a NDA that includes data for genotype 1 patients in 2013 for potential approval in
2014. If GS-7977 with ribavirin is not sufficiently effective in treating genotype 1 treatment-naïve patients, we would need to explore combination therapy using GS-7977 and other direct acting antiviral compounds from our or others’
portfolios, which would delay development and approval of GS-7977 for use in genotype 1 treatment-naïve patients. We expect to begin clinical studies evaluating GS-7977 in combination with our GS-5885 NS5A inhibitor in genotype 1
treatment-naïve patients in the second quarter of 2012.

See the Risk Factor entitled “The public announcement of
data from clinical studies evaluating GS-7977 in HCV-infected patients is likely to cause significant volatility in our stock price” on page 30.

Our Products

HIV/AIDS



•Atripla(efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment
of HIV infection in adults. Atripla is the first once-daily single-tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, Viread
(tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine), and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company’s (BMS) non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Sustiva (efavirenz).



•Truvada(emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat HIV
infection in adults. It is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, Viread and Emtriva.



•Vireadis an oral formulation of a nucleotide analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat
HIV infection in patients 2 years of age and older. Viread is also approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in adults.



•Complera/Eviplerais an oral formulation dosed once a day for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in treatment-naïve adults. The product,
marketed in the United States as Complera and in Europe as Eviplera, is the second complete single-tablet regimen for the treatment of HIV and is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, Viread and Emtriva, and Tibotec
Pharmaceuticals’ non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Edurant (rilpivirine).



•Emtrivais an oral formulation of a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat
HIV infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also available as an oral solution approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children.

Liver Disease



•Vireadis an oral formulation of a nucleotide analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
in adults with compensated and decompensated liver disease.







We have licensed to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) the rights to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia and certain other territories. As noted above, Viread is
also approved for the treatment of HIV infection in patients 2 years of age and older in combination with other antiretroviral agents.



•Hepsera(adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analog polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to treat chronic hepatitis B
in patients 12 years of age and older. We have licensed to GSK the rights to commercialize Hepsera for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories.

Cardiovascular



•Letairis(ambrisentan) is an oral formulation of an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial
hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1) in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. We sublicensed to GSK the rights to ambrisentan, marketed by GSK as Volibris (ambrisentan), for PAH in
territories outside of the United States.



•Ranexa(ranolazine) is an extended-release tablet for the treatment of chronic angina. We have licensed to Menarini International Operations
Luxembourg SA the rights to Ranexa in territories outside of the United States.



•Lexiscan/Rapiscan(regadenoson) injection is indicated for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging
(MPI), a test that detects and characterizes coronary artery disease, in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Astellas US LLC has exclusive rights to manufacture and sell regadenoson under the name Lexiscan in the United States,
subject to its obligations to pay us royalties based on sales of Lexiscan in the United States. Rapidscan Pharma Solutions, Inc. (RPS) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell regadenoson under the name Rapiscan in Europe and certain
territories outside the United States. We receive royalties from Astellas and RPS for sales in these territories.

Respiratory



•Cayston(aztreonam for inhalation solution) is an inhaled antibiotic for the treatment of respiratory systems in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients 7
years of age and older withPseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa).



•Tamiflu(oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B. Tamiflu is
approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union. Tamiflu is also approved for the prevention of influenza in children and adults in the United
States, Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us
royalties based on a percentage of the net sales of Tamiflu.

Other



•AmBisome(amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat serious
invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species in adults. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma US, Inc., promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and
New Zealand.



•Vistide(cidofovir injection) is an antiviral injection for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in adult patients with AIDS.



•Macugen(pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular
age-related macular degeneration. Macugen was







developed by Eyetech Inc. (Eyetech) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by Eyetech. Eyetech holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in
the United States, and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from Eyetech based on sales of Macugen worldwide.

The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):



2011% ofTotalProductSales2010% ofTotalProductSales2009% ofTotalProductSalesAntiviral products:Atripla$3,224,51840%$2,926,57940%$2,382,11337%Truvada2,875,14135%2,649,90836%2,489,68238%Viread737,8679%732,24010%667,51010%Hepsera144,6792%200,5923%271,5954%Complera/Eviplera38,7470%————Emtriva28,7640%27,6790%27,9740%Total antiviral products7,049,71687%6,536,99888%5,838,87490%AmBisome330,1564%305,8564%298,5975%Letairis293,4264%240,2793%183,9493%Ranexa320,0044%239,8323%131,0622%Other109,0571%66,9561%16,8290%Total product sales$8,102,359100%$7,389,921100%$6,469,311100%

See Item 8, Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.

Commercialization and Distribution

We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.

Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third-party distributors and corporate partners. Our
commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third-party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a
specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.

We sell and distribute Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Complera, Emtriva, Ranexa and Vistide in the United States exclusively through
the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009. On a combined basis, in 2011, these wholesalers accounted for approximately 79% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 43% of our total worldwide revenues. Letairis and Cayston are distributed exclusively by specialty
pharmacies. These specialty pharmacies dispense medications for complex or chronic conditions that require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. We sell and distribute Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva,
Complera/Eviplera, and AmBisome in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and New Zealand either through our commercial teams, third-party distributors or corporate partners.







We also rely on our corporate partners to help promote and sell our products under
collaboration agreements. For example, BMS has rights to promote Atripla in the United States. BMS also has rights to promote Atripla in a majority of the countries in Europe. In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either
Gilead, BMS or a third-party distributor is the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. Under an agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck), we promote and distribute Atripla in 12 countries in Latin America and Asia Pacific either
through Merck or our existing third-party distributors. We have licensed to GSK the right to promote and sell Viread and Hepsera for the treatment of hepatitis B in certain countries outside the United States. We licensed the rights to manufacture
and sell Tamiflu, Macugen and Lexiscan/Rapiscan worldwide to third parties, subject to our corporate partners’ obligation to pay us royalties based on a percentage of the sales of these products.

Access in the Developing World

Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2003, certain of our HIV and other products are available at substantially reduced prices in 134 countries in the developing world. We have developed a
system of tiered pricing that reflects economic status, using gross national income per capita (GNI) and HIV prevalence. This approach allows us to price our therapies based on a country’s ability to pay.

We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to help define the best treatment strategies in developing
world countries. For example, we donated tenofovir for the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA) 004 microbicide trial, which assessed the effectiveness and the safety of a tenofovir-based microbicide gel for the
prevention of HIV infection in South African women. We also provide drugs for a number of innovative international studies investigating whether Viread or Truvada can prevent HIV transmission among at-risk, uninfected adults. This is a potential HIV
prevention strategy called pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP. In December 2011, we announced the submission of a supplemental NDA (sNDA) to the FDA for the approval of once-daily Truvada for PrEP to reduce the risk of HIV-1 infection among
uninfected adults. If the sNDA is approved, Truvada would be the first agent indicated for uninfected individuals to reduce the risk of acquiring HIV through sex.

We also work closely with the World Health Organization and with non-governmental organizations to provide AmBisome for the treatment of leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease, at a preferential price in
resource limited settings. We support numerous clinical studies investigating the role of AmBisome to treat visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in developing countries through collaborations with organizations such as the Drugs for Neglected
Diseases initiative and Médecins Sans Frontières. We also support clinical research studies aimed at identifying the best treatment course for visceral leishmaniasis and donated AmBisome to support clinical studies assessing
combination therapies and the cost-effectiveness of multiple visceral leishmaniasis treatment interventions. In December 2011, we signed a partnership agreement with World Health Organization to donate 445,000 vials of AmBisome over five years. This
donation will be used to treat more than 50,000 patients in resource-limited countries.

We have also entered into a number of
collaborations related to access to our products in the developing world, which include:



•PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd (PharmaChem).In 2005, PharmaChem, one of our commercial manufacturing partners, established a
facility in The Bahamas to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Atripla and Truvada, for resource limited countries through a cooperative effort
with PharmaChem and the Grand Bahama Port Authority. This partnership increases manufacturing capacity for our HIV medicines, and improve delivery efficiency, since the medicines are produced in or near the markets where they are needed most.



•Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).In 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen, providing
for the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the amended







agreement, Aspen retained the right to manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection in these developing world countries. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread
and Truvada in unlabeled bottles from us for distribution in such countries, and also has the right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers approved by us. Aspen was
also granted the right to manufacture and distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine for the treatment of HIV infection. Aspen
is required to pay us royalties on net sales of Viread and Truvada, as well as royalties on net sales of generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with generic versions of
emtricitabine that are manufactured and distributed by Aspen.





•



Licenses with Generic Manufacturers.



•Merck.In 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which Gilead and Merck provide Atripla at substantially
reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Under the agreement, we manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied by Merck, and Merck handles distribution of the product
in the countries covered by the agreement.



•International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.In 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM and
CONRAD, a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture, and, if proven efficacious, arrange for the
distribution in resource limited countries of certain formulations of tenofovir for use as a topical microbicide to prevent HIV infection.



•Medicines Patent Pool (the Pool). In 2011, we entered into an agreement with the Pool, an organization that was established by the United
Nations to increase global access to high-quality, low-cost antiretroviral therapy through the sharing of patents. We granted the Pool a non-exclusive license to identify generic pharmaceutical manufacturers in India who specialize in high-quality
production of generic medicines and grant sublicenses to those Indian manufacturers to manufacture and distribute generic versions of our antiretrovirals in the developing world. Sublicensees through the Pool will be free to develop combination
products and pediatric formulations of our HIV medicines. We also granted the Pool the right to grant sublicenses to our future pipeline products elvitegravir, cobicistat and Quad to those same generic pharmaceutical manufacturers in India for
distribution in the developing world.



•Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec). In 2011, we expanded our agreement with Tibotec to provide for distribution of Complera/Eviplera for the
treatment of HIV in less developed countries and to enable the commercialization of generic versions of the product.







Competition

Our products target a number of areas, including viral, cardiovascular, respiratory and fungal diseases. There are many commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases. Many companies
and institutions are making substantial investments in developing additional products to treat these diseases. Our products compete with other available products based primarily on:



•efficacy;



•safety;



•tolerability;



•acceptance by doctors;



•ease of patient compliance;



•patent protection;



•ease of use;



•price;



•insurance and other reimbursement coverage;



•distribution; and



•marketing.

Our HIV
Products

The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing
number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Competition from current and expected competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of our HIV products. Of the 35 branded HIV drugs available
in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed-dose combination products in the nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epzicom/Kivexa
(abacavir/lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by a joint venture, ViiV, that was established in November 2009 by GSK and Pfizer focused on HIV therapies. Our HIV products also compete broadly with HIV products from
Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Roche and Tibotec.

BMS’s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI)
became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK’s Retrovir (zidovudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in 2005. BMS’s Zerit (stavudine) also faces
generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic stavudine in 2008. Lamivudine, marketed by ViiV, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Emtriva and a component of Atripla, Truvada and
Complera/Eviplera. In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself expired in the United States, and generic lamivudine is now available in the United States, Spain and Portugal, and recently received pricing approval in Italy.
We expect that generic versions of lamivudine will be launched in other countries within the European Union. In May 2011, a generic version of Combivir (lamivudine and zidovudine) was approved and was recently launched in the United States. In
addition, in late 2011, generic tenofovir also became available in Turkey. To date, there has not been a significant impact from generic didanosine, zidovudine, stavudine, lamivudine, the generic version of Combivir or generic tenofovir in Turkey on
the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.

Our Liver Disease Products

Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products, Viread and Hepsera, face significant competition from existing and expected
therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B, which may erode the revenues we receive from sales of our HBV products. Our HBV products face competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an oral nucleoside







analog developed by BMS and launched in the United States in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analog developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) for sale
in the United States, the European Union and China.

Our HBV products also compete with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), which
was developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals Group PLC and is sold in the major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia.

Viread and Hepsera for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B also compete with established immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation
in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an injectable drug similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.

Our Cardiovascular Products

Letairis competes directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with a PAH product from United Therapeutics Corporation.

Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the
United States, including generic and/or branded beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can
be another option for angina patients, and may be perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina.

There are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents that compete with Lexiscan/Rapiscan. Clinical Data, Inc.
is developing apadenoson as a pharmacologic stress agent for MPI which is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. These stress agents and product candidates could also compete with Lexiscan/Rapiscan.

Our Respiratory Products

Cayston competes primarily with Tobi (tobramycin inhalation solution), an inhaled medication sold by Novartis for the treatment of CF
patients whose lungs containP. aeruginosa.

Tamiflu competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is
sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations of peramivir, an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which are currently in Phase 3 clinical trials.

Our Other Products

AmBisome faces strong competition from several current
and expected competitors. Competition from these current and expected competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed
by Merck that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as Caspofungin elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma Ltd. in Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen
(amphotericin B liposomal), sold by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous generic manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.







We are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming
available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. The manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex, and if any of
these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.

Vistide competes with
a number of drugs that also treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations, respectively, by Roche and as an ocular implant by Bausch & Lomb Incorporated;
Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold by CibaVision.

Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis and used in connection with photodynamic
therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech, Inc. in the United States and Novartis in territories outside the United States.

A number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large
pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection
and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and programs.

Collaborative Relationships

As part of our business strategy, we establish collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions to
assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and
technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our
business can be found in Item 8, Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Commercial Collaborations

Although we currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern the manufacture, sale, distribution and/or marketing of our products in various territories worldwide, the
following commercial collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.



•Roche.In 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement with Roche to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral
influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the original agreement, Roche had the exclusive right and obligation to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide,
subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net sales that Roche generated from Tamiflu sales. Under the agreement, we received an up-front payment in the amount of $5.0 million and were entitled to receive additional milestone payments
of up to $40.0 million upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory objectives. We have received all such milestone payments. In 1996, Roche also made a cash payment to us in the amount of $5.3 million related to reimbursement for
certain research and preclinical development expenses and our obligation to prosecute and maintain certain patents under the agreement. In 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the original agreement with Roche. The amendment
eliminated cost of goods adjustments from the royalty calculation, retroactive to calendar year 2004 and for all future calculations. The amendment also







provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche’s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to
evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche’s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis. Each of the committees consists of representatives from both
Roche and us. Under the amendment, we have the option to provide a specialized sales force to supplement Roche’s U.S. marketing efforts for Tamiflu, which we have not exercised to date. The agreement and Roche’s obligation to pay royalties
to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis as patents providing exclusivity for Tamiflu in such countries expire. Roche may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case all rights to Tamiflu would revert to us. Either party may
terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.





•



BMS.





In 2007, we
entered into a collaboration agreement with BMS which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we and BMS commercialize Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Either we, BMS or a third-party distributor
act as the selling party in these countries and are responsible for, among other things, receiving and processing customer orders, warehousing product, collecting receivables and handling returns. Manufacturing of Atripla is coordinated by us, and
we are primarily responsible for distribution logistics. In general, the parties share revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net selling prices of Truvada, with respect to us, and efavirenz, with respect to BMS. Starting in 2012,
except for a limited number of activities that will be jointly managed, the parties will no longer coordinate detailing and promotional activities in the region. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent which
affords market exclusivity to Atripla or one of its components in the European countries covered by the agreement. Prior to such time, either party may terminate the agreement for any reason, with such termination to be effective in December 2013.
The non-terminating party has the right to continue







to sell Atripla, but will be obligated to pay the terminating party certain royalties for a three-year period following the effective date of the termination. In the event the non-terminating
party decides not to sell Atripla, the effective date of the termination will be the date Atripla is withdrawn in each country or the date on which a third party assumes distribution of Atripla, whichever is earlier.





•



GSK.



•Tibotec.In 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Tibotec to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada
and Tibotec’s rilpivirine. This combination was approved in the United States and European Union in 2011 and is sold under the brand name Complera in the United States and Eviplera in the European Union. Under the agreement, Tibotec granted us
an exclusive license to Complera/Eviplera worldwide excluding certain middle income and developing world countries and Japan. Neither party is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drugs.

Through December 31, 2011, we recorded €71.5 million (approximately $100.0 million) in reimbursable R&D expenses
incurred by Tibotec in the development of rilpivirine, which is the maximum amount reimbursable under the terms of the agreement. We are responsible for manufacturing Complera/Eviplera and have the lead role in registration, distribution and
commercialization of the product in the licensed countries. Tibotec has exercised a right to co-detail the combination product in the countries where Gilead is the selling party. The price of the product is expected to be the sum of the price of
Truvada and the price of rilpivirine purchased separately. The cost of rilpivirine purchased by us from Tibotec for Complera/Eviplera will approximate the market price of rilpivirine, less a specified percentage of up to thirty percent (30%).

In July 2011, we amended the collaboration agreement to include distribution of Complera/Eviplera in the rest of the world. We
will distribute the product in North America, Europe, Latin America, Australia and New Zealand, while Tibotec will distribute the product in the other regions, including Japan and Russia.

Either party may terminate the collaboration agreement if Complera/Eviplera is withdrawn from the market or if a party materially breaches
the agreement. We may terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last to expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or
after the expiration of the last to expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in a country of the European Union. Tibotec may terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration







of the last to expire patent for rilpivirine in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the last to expire patent for rilpivirine in
a country of the European Union.

Research Collaborations

We currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern our research and development (R&D) of certain
compounds and drug candidates. Our research collaboration with Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco) is the only collaboration that is significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.



•Japan Tobacco.In 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco, under which Japan Tobacco granted us exclusive rights to
develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco would retain such rights. Under the agreement, we are responsible for seeking regulatory approval in our
territories and are required to use diligent efforts to commercialize a product for the treatment of HIV infection. We will bear all costs and expenses associated with such commercialization efforts. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid an
up-front license fee of $15.0 million and are obligated to make total potential milestone payments of up to $90.0 million upon the achievement of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial objectives. Additionally, we are obligated to pay royalties
based on any net sales in the territories where we market the product. Through December 31, 2011, we have made total milestone payments of $28.0 million. The agreement and our obligation to pay royalties to Japan Tobacco will terminate on a
product-by-product basis as patents providing exclusivity for the product expire or, if later, on the tenth anniversary of commercial launch for such product. We may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case the license granted by Japan
Tobacco to us would terminate. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.

Research and Development

Our research and development philosophy and strategy is to develop best-in-class drugs that improve safety or efficacy for unmet medical
needs. We apply our expertise in drug discovery and development to target specific medical needs where new or better treatments are needed. We intend to continue committing significant resources to research and development opportunities and business
development activity.

Our product development efforts cover a wide range of medical conditions, including HIV/AIDS and liver
diseases such as hepatitis B and C and cardiovascular/metabolic, respiratory and inflammation/oncology diseases. We have research scientists in Foster City, Palo Alto, San Dimas and Oceanside, California; Branford, Connecticut; Princeton, New
Jersey; and Seattle, Washington, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to new medicines and novel formulations of existing drugs.

The development of our product candidates is subject to various risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include our
ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain regulatory approvals. As
a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Drug development is inherently risky and many product candidates fail during the drug development process.







Below is a summary of our key product candidates and their corresponding current stages of
development. For additional information on our development pipeline, visit our website at www.gilead.com.

Product Candidates for the
Treatment of HIV



Product CandidatesDescriptionMarketing Application PendingIntegraseSingle-TabletRegimen “Quad”In October 2011, we submitted a new drug application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for marketing approval of the once-daily, single-tablet “Quad”
regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine. In December 2011, the FDA accepted the NDA for review and set a target review date of August 27, 2012. In addition, FDA indicated that a panel would be convened in
the May 2012 timeframe to provide expert advice on the application. Also in December 2011, we announced that we had submitted a marketing authorization application to the European Medicines Agency for marketing approval of this single-tablet
regimen.Phase 3CobicistatCobicistat is a pharmacoenhancer that is under evaluation as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines in treatment-naïve patients. Based on positive clinical trial
results, we expect to submit a NDA for the product in the second quarter of 2012.ElvitegravirElvitegravir is an oral integrase inhibitor that is being evaluated as part of combination therapy for HIV in treatment-experienced patients. Based on positive clinical trial
results, we expect to submit a NDA for the product in the second quarter of 2012.Phase 2GS-7340GS-7340 is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of HIV/AIDS.

Product Candidates for the Treatment of Liver Disease



Product CandidatesDescriptionPhase 3GS-7977GS-7977 is a nucleotide NS5B inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of HCV. We are currently enrolling genotype 2 and 3
patients in a Phase 3 clinical program of GS-7977 and ribavirin. We are also evaluating GS-7977 in combination with ribavirin in genotype 1 treatment-naïve and “null” responder patients. Null responders are patients who did not
respond to earlier interferon-based therapy. On February 17, 2012, we announced that the majority of HCV genotype 1 patients with a prior “null” response to an interferon-containing regimen enrolled in an arm of our ongoing ELECTRON study
experienced viral relapse within four weeks of completing 12 weeks of treatment with GS-7977 plus ribavirin. Ten patients were randomized to this arm of the ELECTRON study and data were available for eight of the ten patients at the time of the
announcement. Among these eight patients, six experienced viral relapse. Two patients had not relapsed; however, they had only reached the two week post-treatment time point. Further data from the genotype 1 null
responder







Product CandidatesDescriptionarm of the study will be presented at an upcoming scientific conference. These data indicate that treatment of genotype 1 patients
classified as null responders with GS-7977 plus ribavirin for 12 weeks will not be sufficient to cure their disease. We expect to receive data from ongoing studies of treatment-naïve patients with GS-7977 and ribavirin over the next several
months, as described in “Overview” in Item 1, Business.Phase 2GS-5885GS-5885 is an oral NS5A inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of hepatitis C.GS-9256*GS-9256 is an NS3 oral protease inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.GS-9451GS-9451 is an oral NS3 protease inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.



*No further clinical trials planned at this time.



Product CandidatesDescriptionTegobuvir (GS-9190)*Tegobuvir (GS-9190) is an oral NS5B non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.GS-6624GS 6624 is a monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of liver fibrosis.Phase 1GS-7340GS-7340 is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of hepatitis B.GS-9620GS-9620 is an oral TLR-7 agonist for the treatment of hepatitis B and hepatitis C.GS-9669GS-9669 is a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of hepatitis C.



*No further clinical trials planned at this time.

Product Candidates for the Treatment of Cardiovascular/Metabolic Diseases



Product CandidatesDescriptionPhase 3RanolazineRanolazine is a late sodium current inhibitor approved for the treatment of chronic angina, which will also be evaluated for the treatment of incomplete revascularization
post-percutaneous coronary intervention and the treatment of type II diabetes. We expect to complete the Phase 3 trial evaluating ranolazine for the treatment of incomplete revascularization post-percutaneous coronary intervention in the first half
of 2014 and the Phase 3 trial evaluating ranolazine for the treatment of treatment of type II diabetes in the second half of 2013.







Product Candidates for the Treatment of Respiratory Diseases



Product CandidatesDescriptionPhase 3Aztreonam for inhalation solutionAztreonam for inhalation solution is being evaluated for the treatment of bronchiectasis. We expect to complete enrollment of the two Phase 3 trials by early
2013.Phase 1GS-6624GS-6624 is a monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Product Candidates for the Treatment of Inflammation/Oncology Diseases



Product CandidatesDescriptionPhase 3GS-1101GS-1101 is a PI3K delta inhibitor antibody being evaluated for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We expect to complete enrollment of the first Phase 3 trial of
GS-1101 for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the first half of 2013.Phase 2GS-1101GS-1101 is a PI3K delta inhibitor antibody being evaluated for the treatment of indolent non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.GS-6624GS-6624 is a monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of myelofibrosis, colorectal cancer and pancreatic cancer.Phase 1GS-9973GS-9973 is a Syk inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.

In total, our R&D expenses for 2011 were $1.23 billion compared with $1.07 billion for 2010 and
$939.9 million for 2009. In addition to our internal discovery and clinical development programs, we seek to add to our portfolio of products through product acquisitions and collaborations. The following table shows some of our recent acquisitions:



YearCompanyTherapeutic area2009CV Therapeutics, Inc.Cardiovascular disorders2010CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Serious inflammatory diseases2011Arresto Biosciences, Inc.Fibrotic diseases and cancer2011Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, Inc.Cancer and inflammatory diseases2012Pharmasset, Inc.Chronic hepatitis C virus

Our largest transaction was the acquisition of Pharmasset, Inc. in January 2012 for $11.1 billion.
Pharmasset was a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company located in Princeton, New Jersey, committed to discovering, developing and commercializing novel drugs to treat viral infections. Pharmasset’s primary focus was the development of oral
therapeutics for the treatment of HCV infection. Through our acquisition of Pharmasset, we gained ownership of GS-7977, the most advanced, and to date the most potent, nucleotide analog that acts to inhibit the replication of HCV with limited safety
or resistance concerns detected thus far. See the Risk Factor entitled “The public announcement of data from clinical studies evaluating GS-7977 in HCV-infected patients is likely to cause significant volatility in our stock price” on page
30.







Patents and Proprietary Rights

U.S. and European Patent Expiration

We have a number of U.S. and foreign
patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in
issued patents.

The following table shows the estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the primary
patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications for our Phase 3 product candidates:



Phase 3 Product CandidatesPatent 
Expiration(1)Product Candidates for the Treatment of HIVU.S.E.U.Cobicistat(2)(2)Elvitegravir20232023Integrase Single-Tablet Regimen “Quad”2023(3)2023(3)Product Candidate for the Treatment of Liver DiseaseGS-79772029(2)Product Candidate for the Treatment of Respiratory DiseasesAztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of bronchiectasis20212021Product Candidate for the Treatment of Cardiovascular/Metabolic DiseasesRanolazine for the treatment of incomplete revascularization post-percutaneouscoronary intervention and the treatment of type II diabetes20192019



(1)Does not reflect any possible patent term restoration or future supplementary protection certificates. Further, depending on the circumstances
surrounding any regulatory approval of the product, there may be other patents that could have relevance to the product as finally approved.

(2)Application is pending.

(3)Based on the patent expiration date of elvitegravir, one of the components of Quad.

The following table shows the actual or estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the primary patents and for
patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:



ProductsU.S. 
PatentExpirationEuropean 
PatentExpirationVistide20102012(1)Hepsera20142016(1)Letairis20152015AmBisome20162008Tamiflu2016(2)2016Macugen20172017Viread2017(3)2018Ranexa20192023(1)Lexiscan20192020Emtriva20212016(1)Truvada20212018(4)Atripla20212018(5)Cayston20212021Complera/Eviplera2023(6)2022(6)



(1)Supplementary
Protection Certificate (SPC) protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confer an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity as indicated.







(2)Pediatric
exclusivity granted extending patent expiration to 2017.

(3)Pediatric
exclusivity granted extending patent expiration to 2018.

(4)Based on the
patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Truvada.

(5)Based on the
patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Atripla.

(6)Based on the
patent expiration date of Edurant, one of the components of Complera/Eviplera.

Patent Protection and Certain Challenges

Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a properly designed and enforceable
patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy,
we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely on trade secrets, internal
know-how, technological innovations and agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.

Patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Complera/Eviplera, Hepsera, Letairis,
Vistide and Lexiscan are held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties. Patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it was discovered that only a
sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. Instead, we
hold patents to the liposomal formulations of this compound and also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the
active ingredient in Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed.

We may obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale
of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on many of our products have been granted in the United States and in a
number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be available for other products that we are developing, but we cannot be certain we will obtain them.







Further, Gilead (as successor to Pharmasset, Inc.) is a party to a collaboration agreement
with Roche to develop PSI-6130 and its prodrugs for the treatment of chronic HCV infection. The collaborative research efforts under this agreement ended on December 31, 2006. Roche later asked Pharmasset to consider whether Roche may have
contributed to the inventorship of GS-7977 and whether Pharmasset has complied with the confidentiality provisions of the collaboration agreement. Pharmasset advised us that it carefully considered the issues raised by Roche and that it believed any
such issues are without merit. We have also considered these issues and reached the same conclusion. However, if Roche were to successfully assert that it contributed to the inventorship of GS-7977 and either independently develop GS-7977 or file an
abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) to market GS-7977, Roche could at some point in the future market that product and begin competing against us prior to the expiration of our patents for GS-7977. Such marketing activity by Roche could
materially reduce the revenues we expect to receive from the sale of GS-7977, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

Because patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending
applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or
compete with our patents. If competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are
expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by participation in such events.

Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will
likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or
substantially reduce their protection. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Atripla, Truvada, Complera/Eviplera and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination
process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.

Although we were successful in responding to the
PTO actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for
rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority issued a final
rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. In
July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the
action of the Brazilian patent authority. Because we do not currently have a patent in Brazil, in 2011 the Brazilian government purchased all of its supply of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate from generic manufacturers. As a result, we did not sell any
of our HIV products in Brazil in 2011.

As another example, under Indian civil procedure, several parties filed oppositions to
the grant of our patent applications covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be
granted. We have filed an appeal within the Indian Patent Office Intellectual Property Appellate Board on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal of these decisions, any
further appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In







addition, if we are unsuccessful in appealing any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.

Our pending patent applications and the patent applications filed by our collaborative
partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third parties from developing compounds or products that are closely related to those
which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not provide effective enforcement of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in
those countries.

Abbreviated New Drug Applications Filed by Generic Manufacturers

As part of the approval process of some of our products, the FDA granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers’
applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity
period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. Generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to seek FDA approval for
a similar or identical drug through an ANDA, the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug.

In June 2010, we received notice that Lupin Limited (Lupin) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Ranexa. In the notice, Lupin alleges that ten
of the patents associated with Ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Lupin’s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Ranexa. In July 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Lupin for infringement of our patents for
Ranexa.

In August 2010, we received notice that Sigmapharm Labs (Sigmapharm) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting
permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Hepsera. In the notice, Sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with Hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Sigmapharm’s manufacture, use or
sale of a generic version of Hepsera. In September 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for Hepsera. One of the patents challenged by Sigmapharm is also being challenged by Ranbaxy, Inc. (Ranbaxy) pursuant to a
notice received in October 2010. The patent challenged by Ranbaxy expires in July 2018. We have the option of filing a lawsuit at any time if we believe that Ranbaxy is infringing our patent.







In February 2011, we received notice that Natco Pharma Limited (Natco) submitted an ANDA to
the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Tamiflu. In the notice, Natco alleges that one of the patents associated with Tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Natco’s manufacture,
use or sale of a generic version of Tamiflu. In March 2011, we and Roche filed a lawsuit against Natco for infringement of the patent associated with Tamiflu.

In November 2011, we received notice that Teva submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Submission (ANDS) to the Canadian Ministry of Health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of
our Truvada product. In the notice, Teva alleges that three of the patents associated with Truvada are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva’s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In January 2012, we
filed a lawsuit against Teva seeking an order of prohibition against approval of this ANDS.

In December 2011, we received
notice that Teva submitted an ANDS to the Canadian Ministry of Health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of our Atripla product. In the notice, Teva alleges that three of our patents associated with Atripla and two of
Merck’s patents associated with Atripla are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva’s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Atripla. In February 2012, we filed a lawsuit against Teva seeking an order of
prohibition against approval of this ANDS.

We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend
significant resources enforcing and defending these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera,
Ranexa and Tamiflu in the United States or for Atripla and Truvada in Canada could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve the requests to manufacture a generic
version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents.

Trade Secrets

We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a
great deal of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with
our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be
used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these
parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R&D
agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could
arise regarding those inventions.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture the majority of our active pharmaceutical ingredients and
solid dose products. We also rely on our corporate partners to manufacture certain of our products. Additionally, we own or lease manufacturing facilities in San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; Cork, Ireland and Oceanside, California,
where we manufacture certain products and active pharmaceutical ingredients for clinical and commercial uses.







Manufacturing of our Products

We contract with third parties to manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial purposes, including Atripla, Truvada, Viread,
Hepsera, Complera/Eviplera, Emtriva, Ranexa and Vistide. We use multiple third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients
in Atripla, Truvada and Complera/Eviplera; and emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Atripla, Truvada and Complera/Eviplera. We rely on a single third-party manufacturer to
manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Ranexa and Cayston. We are the exclusive manufacturer of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Hepsera, Letairis and Vistide.

We also rely on third-party contract manufacturers to tablet or capsulate products. For example, we use multiple third-party contract
manufacturers to tablet Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Complera/Eviplera and Ranexa. Emtriva encapsulation is also completed by third-party contract manufacturers. We rely on a single third-party supplier to manufacture Letairis tablets.

We also have manufacturing agreements with many of our corporate partners. Roche, by itself and through third parties, is
responsible for the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint manufacturing committee composed of representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche’s existing manufacturing capacity for
Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu. Astellas US LLC, our corporate partner for Lexiscan in the United States, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in the United States and is dependent on a single
supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Lexiscan. PARI Pharma GmbH is responsible for the manufacturing of the device required to administer Cayston to the lungs of patients. This device is made by a single supplier at a single site.

For our future products, we continue to develop additional manufacturing capabilities and establish additional third-party
suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to develop manufacturing
capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties on acceptable terms for our future products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand for commercial products will be adversely
affected.

Our Manufacturing Facilities

At our San Dimas facility, we manufacture, fill and package products. We currently manufacture Cayston exclusively at our San Dimas, California manufacturing facility. Due to unexpected delays both in
qualifying two new external sites and with expanding Cayston manufacturing in San Dimas, we cannot supply enough Cayston to fulfill our projected demand. In February 2012, we suspended access for patients with new prescriptions for Cayston subject
to certain exceptions where specific medical need exists. Patients may use other alternative treatment options until we are able to resolve the supply shortage. As a result of our inability to manufacture sufficient Cayston to meet demand, the
amount of revenues we expect to receive from the sale of Cayston will be reduced.

We are the single supplier of AmBisome at
our San Dimas facility. We depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas under our manufacturing agreements with Eyetech
and Pfizer. Eyetech currently provides us with pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Macugen. We also fill and package solid dosage form products, including Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Complera/Eviplera, Emtriva and Ranexa, in
their finished forms and label Hepsera at our facilities in San Dimas. In the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be
unable to manufacture AmBisome and Macugen to meet market needs.

We fill and package drug product for Atripla, Truvada,
Viread and Cayston in their finished forms and label Hepsera and Emtriva at our facilities in Cork, Ireland. We also perform quality control testing, final labeling and







packaging of AmBisome and final release of many of our products for the European Union and elsewhere at this facility. We utilize our Cork, Ireland facility primarily for solid dose tablet
manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities. We distribute our products to the European Union and other international markets from our Dublin, Ireland site.

At our Edmonton facility, we carry out process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, manufacture active
pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and conduct chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes. We also manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Hepsera,
Letairis and Vistide exclusively at our Edmonton site, although another supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis.

Our Oceanside facility, acquired in 2011, is designed and equipped to produce biologic compounds for toxicological, Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical studies. We use the facility for the process development
and manufacture of GS-6624 an investigational monoclonal antibody candidate in development for treatment of certain cancers and for fibrotic diseases, and another antibody which is currently in preclinical testing.

Third-party Manufacturers

Our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and
financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers or our corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause
delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.

We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third-party contract
manufacturers, we have disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third-party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or
revealing this technology, but we cannot be certain that these third-party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these third-party manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us
that we may need to manufacture our products. We could be required to enter into additional agreements with these third-party manufacturers if we want to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The
third-party manufacturer could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.

Regulation of Manufacturing Process

The manufacturing process for
pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current Good
Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. Similar regulations are in effect in other
countries.

Our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. For example, in January
and February 2010, the FDA conducted a routine inspection of our San Dimas, California, manufacturing and distribution facility, where we manufacture AmBisome and Cayston, fill and finish Macugen, and package solid dosage form products. At the
conclusion of that inspection, the FDA issued Form 483 Inspectional Observations stating concerns over: the maintenance of aseptic processing conditions in the manufacturing suite for our AmBisome product; environmental maintenance issues in the San
Dimas warehousing facility; batch sampling; and the timeliness of completion of annual product quality reports. On September 24, 2010, our San Dimas manufacturing facility received a Warning Letter from the FDA further







detailing the FDA’s concerns over the AmBisome manufacturing environment, including control systems and monitoring, procedures to prevent microbiological contamination and preventative
cleaning and equipment maintenance. Referencing certain Viread lots, the letter also stated concerns connected with quality procedures, controls and investigation procedures, and a generalized concern over the effectiveness of the San Dimas quality
unit in carrying out its responsibilities. In November and December 2010, the FDA re-inspected the San Dimas facility. The re-inspection closed with no additional Form 483 observations. In August 2011, the FDA notified us that we resolved all issues
raised by the FDA in its Warning Letter.

Access to Supplies and Materials

We need access to certain supplies and products to manufacture our products. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted
for any reason or if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials used to manufacture our products, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for
clinical trials. For example, a significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our HIV products (Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva and Complera/Eviplera) are supplied by Chinese-based companies. As a result, an
international trade dispute between China and the United States or any other actions by the Chinese government that would limit or prevent Chinese companies from supplying these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply
our HIV products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.

Seasonal Operations and Backlog

Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which
represented approximately 3% of our total revenues in 2011 and consisted primarily of Tamiflu royalties, are affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from Roche’s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity of flu seasons
and product delivery in response to the influenza pandemics.

For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short
lead times and the absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.

Government Regulation

Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and other
countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record
keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.

The FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:

Preclinical Testing

Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support
the drug candidate’s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to the FDA in an investigational new drug (IND) application seeking its approval to test the compound in humans.







Clinical Trials

If the FDA accepts the investigational new drug application, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical trials
involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:



•Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for
safety, dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.



•Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best
dose of the drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.



•Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those
results. Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted over a longer term, involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data
regarding the safety and benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.

FDA Approval Process

When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate
filing, usually in the form of a new drug application (NDA) or supplemental NDA, with the FDA seeking approval to sell the drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert
advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee makes a recommendation to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that the compound has met the
required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes that the drug candidate
is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or conclusive.

At
any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that
we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.

The FDA may also
require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy during commercial use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our
manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the
drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it does not believe that we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.

In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we
sell, including those of companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture products to be sold in the United States
and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory







inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including our San Dimas facilities, also must be licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory
requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility, and our facilities located near Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory
requirements.

Drugs that treat serious or life threatening diseases and conditions that are not adequately addressed by
existing drugs, and for which the development program is designed to address the unmet medical need, may be designated as fast track candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV
infection that are designated for use under the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or priority review. Atripla, Truvada, Viread and Complera received accelerated approval and priority reviews.
Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.

Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In the European Union, there is a centralized approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the
European Union (which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in one country of the European Union can be used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of
two simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration
procedures, separate pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most countries.

Pricing and Reimbursement

Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for
the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or
potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative
products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices.







In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we
may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices
with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of
prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and they expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or
as volumes increase.

Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our
products, and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. For example, in June 2010, Spain imposed
an incremental discount on all branded drugs and in August 2010, Germany increased the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals. As generic drugs come to market, we may face price decreases for our products in some countries in the European Union.

Government agencies also issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, from
time to time, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations and organizations publish guidelines or recommendations directed to certain health care and patient communities. Such recommendations and guidelines
may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies and can consequently result in increased or decreased usage of our products. For example, recent HIV treatment guidelines in the
United States and abroad have endorsed earlier diagnosis and treatment.

United States Healthcare Reform

In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the United States. As a result, we are required to further rebate or discount
products reimbursed or paid for by various public payers, including Medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act, such as ADAPs. The discounts, rebates
and fees in the legislation that impacted us include:



•our minimum base rebate amount owed to Medicaid on products reimbursed by Medicaid has been increased by 8%, and the discounts or rebates we owe to
ADAPs and other Public Health Service entities which reimburse or purchase our products have also been increased by 8%;



•we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through Medicaid managed care organizations;



•we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the Medicare Part D “donut hole;” and



•we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also known as the
pharmaceutical excise tax), of $2.5 billion for 2011, calculated based on select government sales during the 2009 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales.

The amount of the industry fee imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as a whole will increase to $2.8 billion in 2012, with additional
increases over the next several years to a peak of $4.1 billion per year in 2018, and then decrease to $2.8 billion in 2019 and thereafter. As the amount of the industry fee increases, our product sales increase and drug patents expire on major
drugs, such as Lipitor, we expect our portion of the excise tax to increase as well. We estimate the 2012 impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be approximately $80-$100 million, compared to approximately $50 million in 2011. The excise tax is
not tax deductible.

Further, even though not addressed in the healthcare reform legislation, discussions continue at the
federal level on legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare Part D pricing.







In addition, state Medicaid programs could request additional supplemental rebates on our
products as a result of the increase in the federal base Medicaid rebate. Private insurers could also use the enactment of these increased rebates to exert pricing pressure on our products, and to the extent that private insurers or managed care
programs follow Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules.

Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws and Anti-Bribery Laws

Compulsory
Licenses

In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that
pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own
versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing
compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority.
Because we do not currently have a patent in Brazil, in 2011 the Brazilian government purchased all of its supply of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate from generic manufacturers. As a result, we did not sell any of our HIV products in Brazil in 2011.

In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and H1N1 influenza
generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government considered allowing Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing
and least developed countries under Canada’s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group)
Co., Ltd. for China and a







sublicense to India’s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our
Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche’s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement
of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our
results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.

Employees

As of
January 31, 2012, we had approximately 4,500 full-time employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees.

Environment,
Health and Safety

We are voluntarily assessing and publicly reporting our greenhouse gas emissions and water usage, and
have begun to take action to reduce such emissions and usage. For example we have established employee commuter programs, evaluated the energy efficiency of our buildings and installed low-flow water fixtures. Various laws and regulations have been
implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the California Air Resources Board is in the process of drafting regulations to meet state emissions targets. Based on
current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. However, because we are not an energy intensive business, we do not
anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would likely be material to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.

We are also subject to other federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use
hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds in our R&D activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Certain misuse or accidents involving these materials could
lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties. We have implemented proactive programs to reduce and minimize the risk of hazardous materials incidents.

Other Information

We are subject to the information requirements of the
Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.

The mailing
address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California 94404, and our telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the “Investors” section of our website (under
“SEC Filings” in the “Financial Information” section), we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K;
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.







