ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Overview

Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in
North America, Europe and Australia. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life threatening diseases to market. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal
discovery and clinical development programs and through an active product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.

In 2009, we
acquired CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics), a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Palo Alto, California, primarily focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule drugs for the treatment of
cardiovascular diseases. CV Therapeutics had two marketed products, Ranexa (ranolazine) and Lexiscan (regadenoson), as well as several product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases.

Our Products



•Truvada(emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine).



•Atripla(efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the
treatment of HIV infection in adults. Atripla is the first once daily single tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed-dose combination of our anti-HIV medications, Viread
and Emtriva, and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company’s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Sustiva (efavirenz).



•Vireadis an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In 2008, we received marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. We have licensed to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) the rights to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B in China.



•Emtrivais an oral formulation of a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children.



•Hepsera(adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to treat chronic
hepatitis B. We have licensed to GSK the rights to commercialize Hepsera for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories.



•AmBisome(amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat
serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma US, Inc., promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and New Zealand.



•Letairis(ambrisentan) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
(WHO Group 1) in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. We sublicensed to GSK the rights to ambrisentan, marketed by GSK as Volibris (ambrisentan), for PAH in territories outside of the
United States.







•Ranexais indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. We have licensed to Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA the rights
to Ranexa in territories outside of the United States.



•Vistide(cidofovir injection) is an antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS.



•Cayston(aztreonam for inhalation solution) is an inhaled antibiotic as a treatment to improve respiratory systems in cystic fibrosis
(CF) patients withPseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa). In September 2009, we received conditional marketing approval of Cayston in Europe and Canada. In February 2010, we received marketing approval of Cayston in the United States.

The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):



2009% ofTotalProductSales2008% ofTotalProductSales2007% ofTotalProductSalesAntiviral products:Truvada$2,489,68238%$2,106,68741%$1,589,22943%Atripla2,382,11337%1,572,45531%903,38124%Viread667,51010%621,18712%613,16916%Hepsera271,5954%341,0237%302,7228%Emtriva27,9740%31,0801%31,4931%Total antiviral products5,838,87490%4,672,43292%3,439,99492%AmBisome298,5975%289,6516%262,5717%Letairis183,9493%112,8552%21,0201%Ranexa131,0622%————Other16,8290%9,8580%9,5240%Total product sales$6,469,311100%$5,084,796100%$3,733,109100%

See Item 8, Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.

Royalties from Other Products



•Tamiflu(oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B.
Tamiflu is approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union. Tamiflu is also approved for the prevention of influenza in children and adults in the
United States, Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay
us royalties based on a percentage of the net sales of Tamiflu.



•Macugen(pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular
age-related macular degeneration. Macugen was developed by Eyetech Inc. (Eyetech) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by Eyetech. Eyetech holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in the United
States, and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from Eyetech based on sales of Macugen worldwide.



•Lexiscaninjection is indicated for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), a test that
detects and characterizes coronary artery disease, in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Astellas US LLC has exclusive rights to manufacture and







sell Lexiscan in the United States, subject to its obligations to pay us royalties based on sales of Lexiscan in the United States. In May 2009, our marketing authorization application for
regadenoson for MPI in the European Union was validated by the European Medicines Agency.

Commercialization and
Distribution

We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.

Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third party distributors and corporate partners. Our
commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a
specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.

In the United States, our commercial team promotes Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Ranexa. We promote Atripla in the United
States with our joint venture partner, Bristol Myers-Squibb Company (BMS). We distribute Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Vistide and Ranexa in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large
wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. On a combined basis, these wholesalers accounted
for approximately 85% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 43% of our total revenues. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome and Lexiscan for us in the United States. Cayston and Letairis are
distributed exclusively by specialty pharmacies. These specialty pharmacies specialize in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling.

We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and New
Zealand either through our commercial teams, third party distributors or corporate partners. We promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe and are responsible for selling and distributing the product in these countries.
In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either Gilead, BMS or a third party distributor is the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. Under an agreement with Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck), we promote and
distribute Atripla in 12 countries in Latin America and Asia-Pacific either through Merck or our existing third party distributors. GSK promotes, sells and distributes Hepsera in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories and plans to
promote, sell and distribute Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in China. We rely on our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco Inc., to promote and sell Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells
and distributes AmBisome in Canada. Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd is responsible for promotion and distribution of AmBisome in Japan.

Access in the Developing World

Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2003, certain of our HIV
products are available at substantially reduced prices in 130 countries in the developing world. We have developed a system of tiered pricing that reflects economic status (using gross national income—GNI—per capita) and HIV prevalence.
This approach allows us to price our therapies based on a country’s ability to pay. For example, if a higher HIV prevalence exists in a certain country, but the country also has a relatively high GNI, the country would be moved to a lower price
tier to accommodate higher burden of disease.







We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to help define
the best treatment strategies in developing world countries. For example, in November 2002, we entered into a collaborative agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) of the United Kingdom, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and GSK in connection with
a clinical study conducted by the MRC on antiretroviral HIV therapy in Africa. The trial is called the DART (Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy) study and is aimed at studying clinical versus laboratory monitoring practices and structured
treatment interruptions on continuous antiretroviral therapy in adults with HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. We provide Viread at no cost for the DART study.

We also work closely with the World Health Organization and with non-governmental organizations to provide AmBisome for the treatment of leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease, at a preferential price in
resource limited settings. We support numerous clinical studies investigating the role of AmBisome to treat visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in developing countries through collaborations with organizations such as the Drugs for Neglected
Diseases initiative and Médecins Sans Frontières.

We have also entered into a number of collaborations related
to access of our products in the developing world, which include:



•PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd (PharmaChem).In 2005, PharmaChem, one of our manufacturing partners, established a facility in The
Bahamas to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla, for resource limited countries through a cooperative effort with PharmaChem
and the Grand Bahama Port Authority.



•Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen,
providing for the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In November 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the
amended agreement, Aspen retained the right to manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection in these developing world countries. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread and Truvada in unlabeled bottles from us for
distribution in such countries, and also has the right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers approved by us. Aspen was also granted the right to manufacture and
distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine for the treatment of HIV infection. Aspen is required to pay us royalties on net
sales of Viread and Truvada, as well as royalties on net sales of generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with generic versions of emtricitabine that are manufactured and
distributed by Aspen.



•Generic Licenses.We have entered into non-exclusive license agreements with thirteen Indian generic manufacturers, granting them the rights to
produce and distribute generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of HIV infection to 95 low income countries around the world, which includes India and many of the low income countries in our Gilead Access Program. The
agreements require that the generic manufacturers meet certain national and international regulatory standards and include technology transfers to enable expeditious production of large volumes of high quality generic versions of tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate. In addition, these agreements allow for the manufacture of commercial quantities of both active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product.



•Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck).In August 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which Gilead and Merck
provide Atripla at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Under the agreement, we manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied by Merck, and Merck
handles distribution of the product in the countries covered by the agreement.







•International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.In December 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM
and CONRAD, a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture and, if proven efficacious, arrange for the
distribution in resource limited countries certain formulations of tenofovir for use as a topical microbicide to prevent HIV infection.

Competition

Our products and development programs target a number of
areas, including viral, fungal, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. There are many commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases. Many companies and institutions are making substantial investments in developing additional
products to treat these diseases. Our products compete with other available products based primarily on:



•efficacy;



•safety;



•tolerability;



•acceptance by doctors;



•ease of patient compliance;



•patent protection;



•ease of use;



•price;



•insurance and other reimbursement coverage;



•distribution; and



•marketing.

Our HIV Products.The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Of
the approximately 32 branded HIV drugs available in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed-dose combination products in the nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir
(lamivudine/zidovudine), Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir/lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by a joint venture established in November 2009 by GSK and Pfizer focused on HIV therapies. Other HIV products compete directly
with products in the same NRTI class sold by BMS, although our HIV products also compete broadly with HIV products from Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Pfizer, Roche and Tibotec Therapeutics.

BMS’s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI) became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK’s Retrovir (zidovudine)
also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in 2005. BMS’s Zerit (stavudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic stavudine in 2008. To
date, there has been little impact from generic didanosine, zidovudine or stavudine on the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.

In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself will expire. Lamivudine is marketed by the joint venture established by
GSK and Pfizer and is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Emtriva and a component of both Truvada and Atripla. Certain third party payors or plans may use the entry of generic lamivudine as a reason to exert
pricing pressure on our HIV products.







AmBisome.AmBisome faces strong competition from several current and expected
competitors. Competition from these current and expected competitors may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed by Merck
that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as Caspofungin elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in
the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma Ltd. in Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen (amphotericin B liposomal), sold
by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous generic manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.

We are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These
formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. The manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.

Our HBV Products.Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products, Hepsera and Viread, face significant competition from
existing and expected therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B. Our HBV products face competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by BMS and launched in the United States in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo
(telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) for sale in the United States, the European Union and China.

Our HBV products also compete with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals Group PLC and sold in the major countries throughout North and South
America, Europe and Asia.

Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B also compete with established
immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia, and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an injectable drug
similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.

Letairis.Letairis competes
directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with PAH products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer.

Ranexa.Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States, including generic and/or branded
beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can be another option for angina patients, and may be
perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina.

Vistide.Vistide competes with a number of drugs that also treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations by Roche and as an ocular implant by
Bausch & Lomb Incorporated; Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold by CibaVision.

Cayston.Cayston competes primarily with Tobi (tobramycin inhalation solution, USP), an inhaled medication sold
by Novartis for the treatment of CF patients whose lungs containP. aeruginosa.

Tamiflu.Tamiflu
competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include







amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations of peramivir, an
influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which are currently in Phase 3 clinical trials.

Macugen.Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis and used in connection with photodynamic therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech, Inc.

Lexiscan.In the United States, there are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents
that compete with Lexiscan. Clinical Data, Inc. is developing apadenoson as a pharmacologic stress agent for MPI which is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials. King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing binodenoson, a pharmacologic stress agent
currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. These product candidates could also compete with Lexiscan.

A number of companies are
pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other
pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and
programs.

Collaborative Relationships

As part of our business strategy, we establish collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain
of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies,
universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our business can be found in Item 8, Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Commercial Collaborations

Although we currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern the manufacture, sale, distribution and/or
marketing of our products in various territories worldwide, the following commercial collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.





•



Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS).







reporting and product distribution for the joint venture. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture’s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into
Canada. The agreement will continue until terminated by the mutual agreement of the parties. In addition, either party may terminate the other party’s participation in the collaborationwithin 30 days after the launch of at least one generic
version of such other party’s single agent products (or the double agent products). The non-terminated party then has the right to continue to sell Atripla and a short-term obligation to pay royalties to the terminated party.





•



F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche).



•GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK).In March 2006, we sublicensed to GSK exclusive rights to market ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in
Letairis, which is marketed under the name









Research Collaborations

We currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that
govern our research and development (R&D) of certain compounds and drug candidates. The following research collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing
collaboration activity exists.





•



Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco).



•Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec).In July 2009, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Tibotec, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Johnson & Johnson, under which we will develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Tibotec’s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride), which is currently in
Phase 3 clinical trials. Under the agreement, Tibotec granted us an exclusive license to the combination product for administration to adults in a once daily, oral dosage form, worldwide excluding developing world countries and Japan. Neither party
is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drugs. We will pay Tibotec up to €71.5 million of Tibotec’s development costs for TMC278 and are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and formulate the
combination product, including







completion of bioequivalence studies. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded $52.4 million in reimbursable R&D expenses incurred by Tibotec in the development of TMC278.
Tibotec is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop TMC278 and obtain its approval in the United States and Europe. We will manufacture the combination product and assume the lead role in registration, distribution and, subject to
regulatory approval, commercialization of the combination product in the licensed countries. Tibotec will have the right to detail the combination product in the licensed countries, and, at its option, can request that it be the distributor of the
combination product in a limited number of such countries. The price of the combination product is expected to be the sum of the price of Truvada and the price of TMC278 purchased separately. The cost of TMC278 purchased by us from Tibotec for the
combination product will approximate the market price of TMC278, less a specified percentage of up to thirty percent.

Either party may terminate the agreement if the combination product is withdrawn from the market, if the other party materially breaches the agreement or if certain clinical or regulatory conditions are not met. We may terminate the
agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the
last-to-expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in a country of the European Union. Tibotec may terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last–to-expire patent for TMC278 in the United
States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for TMC278 in a country of the European Union.

Research and Development

In addition to entering into collaborations with
other companies, universities and medical research institutions, we seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our internal discovery and clinical development programs and through an active in-licensing and product acquisition
strategy, such as with our acquisitions of Myogen, Inc. and Corus Pharma, Inc. in 2006. In 2008, we acquired all of Navitas Assets, LLC’s assets related to its cicletanine business, which we are evaluating as a potential treatment of PAH. In
2009, we acquired CV Therapeutics to further expand into the cardiovascular therapeutic area.

We have research scientists in
Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; and Seattle, Washington, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to new medicines and novel formulations of existing
drugs.

Our product development efforts cover a wide range of medical conditions, including HIV/AIDS, liver disease,
cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease. Below is a summary of our key product candidates and their corresponding current stages of development. For additional information on our development pipeline, visit our website at www.gilead.com.



Product CandidateDescriptionMarketing Application PendingRegadenosonIn May 2009, our marketing authorization application for regadenoson for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide MPI in the European Union was validated by the
European Medicines Agency.Phase 3AmbrisentanAmbrisentan is an oral endothelin receptor antagonist also being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) and pulmonary hypertension secondary to IPF.









Product CandidateDescription



ElvitegravirElvitegravir is an oral integrase inhibitor that is being evaluated as part of combination therapy for HIV in treatment experienced patients.



Combination of Truvada and TMC278The combination of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine and TMC278 is under evaluation for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in treatment-naive patients, and formulation work is
underway to develop a once-daily, fixed-dose regimen of these three compounds.



Phase 2



Aztreonam for inhalation solutionAztreonam for inhalation solution is also being evaluated for the treatment of bronchiectasis.



CicletanineCicletanine is an oral agent under evaluation for the treatment of PAH.



Cobicistat (formerly GS 9350)Cobicistat is a pharmacoenhancer that is under evaluation as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines and other antiretrovirals.



Fixed-dose combination of elvitegravir, cobicistat and TruvadaThe once-daily, fixed-dose “Quad” regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine is under evaluation for the treatment of HIV/AIDS
in treatment-naïve patients.



GS 9190GS 9190 is an oral non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.



GS 9310/11GS 9310/11 is an inhaled co-formulation of fosfomycin and tobramycin under evaluation for the treatment of bacterial infections associated with CF.



GS 9450GS 9450 is an oral caspase inhibitor under evaluation for the treatment of hepatitis C and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.



Preparing for Phase 2



RanolazineRanolazine is a late sodium current inhibitor and is also going to be evaluated for the treatment of diastolic heart failure in patients with preserved ejection
fraction.



Phase 1



GS 6201GS 6201 is an A2Badenosine
antagonist under evaluation for the treatment of pulmonary diseases.



GS 9256GS 9256 is a novel protease inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of hepatitis C.



GS 9411GS 9411 is an oral epithelial sodium channel blocker designed to increase airway hydration in patients with pulmonary disease.



GS 9667GS 9667 is a partial A1adenosine antagonist under evaluation for the treatment of diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia.

In total, our R&D expenses for 2009 were $939.9 million compared with $721.8 million for 2008 and $591.0 million for 2007.

Patents and Proprietary Rights

Patents and other proprietary rights are
very important to our business. If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive







products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in
the United States and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and
agreements with third parties to develop, maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.

We have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable
or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents.

The following table shows
the actual or estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the primary patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:



ProductsU.S. PatentExpirationEuropean PatentExpirationVistide20102012Hepsera20142011(1)Letairis20152015AmBisome20162008Tamiflu20162016Macugen20172017Viread20172018Ranexa20192019(2)Lexiscan2019(3)2020(4)Emtriva20212016Truvada20212018(5)Atripla20212018(6)Cayston20212021(7)



(1)Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confers an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2016.



(2)SPC protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confers an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2023.



(3)Patent term extension applied for.



(4)An SPC can be applied for upon marketing approval in the European Union.



(5)Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Truvada



(6)Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Atripla.



(7)Application pending.

Patents
covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis, Vistide and Lexiscan are held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties.
Patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the
characteristic plasma levels they achieve. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. Instead, we hold patents to the liposomal formulations of this compound and also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not
have patent filings in China and certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. We do have applications pending in various countries in Asia, including China, that relate to specific forms
and







formulations of Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed.

We may obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a
limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on many
of our products have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be available for other products that we are developing,
but we cannot be certain we will obtain them.

It is also very important that we do not infringe patents or proprietary rights
of others and that we do not violate the agreements that grant proprietary rights to us. If we do infringe patents or violate these agreements, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or from using the processes covered by those
patents or agreements, or we could be required to obtain a license from third parties to allow us to use their technology. We cannot be certain that, if required, we could obtain a license to any third party technology or that we could obtain one at
a reasonable cost. If we were not able to obtain a required license or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, we are aware of a
body of patents that may relate to our operation of Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. In addition, Actelion, which markets Tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a
method of use for ERAs for the treatment of IPF. If issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own ERA, ambrisentan, for IPF.

Because patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending
applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or
compete with our patents. If competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are
expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such participation in such events.

Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will
likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Future litigation or re-examination proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or
substantially reduce their protection. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil and
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active pharmaceutical ingredient in Truvada, Atripla and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the
re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.

Although we were successful in
responding to the PTO office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent re-examination proceedings
as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority
issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the
rejection. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to







further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unable to
successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. In 2009, the
Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. For 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.

As another example, the Patent Office of India initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate.
However, under Indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it had decided
these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. We have filed an appeal within the Indian Patent Office on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. If we are unable to
successfully appeal these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In
addition, if we are unable to successfully appeal any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the
amount of royalties we receive from our Indian generic licenses.

Our pending patent applications and the patent applications
filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third parties from developing compounds or products that
are closely related to those which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of
our products in those countries.

As part of the approval process of some of our products, the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers’ applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products
that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our
products. It is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), which is the application form typically used by
manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. If our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully.







emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. We expect to file a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. BMS and Merck
have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of
our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Truvada, Atripla and Viread in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are
invalidated, the FDA could approve Teva’s request to manufacture a generic version of such products.

We also rely on
unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a great deal of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by
patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all confidential information
developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide
that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade
secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R&D agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one
party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could arise regarding those inventions.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture
the majority of our solid dose products. We also rely on our corporate partners to manufacture certain of our products. Additionally, we own manufacturing facilities in San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; and Cork, Ireland, where we
manufacture certain products and active pharmaceutical ingredients for clinical and commercial uses.

We contract with third
parties to manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial purposes, including Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Ranexa, Vistide and Cayston. We use multiple third party contract manufacturers to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Truvada and Atripla; and emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in
Truvada and Atripla. We rely on a single third party manufacturer to manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Vistide, Ranexa and Cayston. The diluent for Cayston is also manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site.

We also rely on third party contract manufacturers to tablet or capsulate products. For example, we use multiple third party
contract manufacturers to tablet Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Hepsera and Ranexa. Emtriva capsulation is also completed by third party contract manufacturers. We rely on a single third party supplier to tablet Emtriva and Letairis.

We also have manufacturing agreements with many of our corporate partners. Roche, by itself and through third parties, is responsible for
the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint manufacturing committee composed of representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche’s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and
global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu. Astellas, our corporate partner for Lexiscan in America, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in United States and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical
ingredient of Lexiscan. PARI Pharma GmbH is responsible for the manufacturing of the device required to administer Cayston to the lungs of patients. This device is made by a single supplier at a single site.

At our San Dimas facility, we manufacture, fill and package products. We manufacture AmBisome and Cayston exclusively at this facility. We
depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in







the manufacture of AmBisome. We fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas under our manufacturing agreements with Eyetech and Pfizer. Eyetech currently provides us with
pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Macugen. We also fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva Hepsera and Ranexa in their finished forms at our facilities in San Dimas.

At our Edmonton, Alberta facility, we carry out process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, manufacture active
pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and conduct chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes. In addition, we utilize this site for the manufacture of emtricitabine.
We also manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Letairis and Hepsera exclusively at our Edmonton site, although another supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis.

We fill and package drug product for Truvada, Atripla, Viread, Emtriva, Cayston and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities in
Cork, Ireland. We also perform quality control testing, final labeling and packaging of AmBisome and distribution of many of our products for the European Union and elsewhere at this facility. We utilize our Cork, Ireland facility primarily for
solid dose tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities.

The
manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to
the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries. Our manufacturing
operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. Additionally, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are
out of our control. If we or any of our third party manufacturers or our corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical
trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.

We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third party contract
manufacturers, we have disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or
revealing this technology, but we cannot be certain that these third party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these third party manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us
that we may need to manufacture our products. We could be required to enter into additional agreements with these third party manufacturers if we want to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The third
party manufacturer could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.

We need access to certain supplies and products to manufacture our products. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason or if we are unable to purchase sufficient
quantities of raw materials used to manufacture our products, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the
materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, because we manufacture AmBisome and Cayston and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California, in the event of a disaster,
including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen to meet market needs. Problems with any of the
single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.







For our future products, we will continue to consider developing additional manufacturing
capabilities and establishing additional third party suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale.
If we are unable to develop manufacturing capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties on acceptable terms for our future products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand
for commercial products will be adversely affected.

Seasonal Operations and Backlog

Our worldwide product sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which represented about 7%
of our total revenues in 2009 and consisted primarily of Tamiflu royalties, are affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from Roche’s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity of flu seasons and product delivery in
response to the H1N1 influenza pandemic.

For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the
absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.

Government Regulation

Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States
and other countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling,
storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.

The FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:

Preclinical Testing

Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support the drug candidate’s potential benefits and safety. We submit this data to the FDA in an
investigational new drug (IND) application seeking their approval to test the compound in humans.

Clinical Trials

If the FDA accepts the IND application, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate
is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:



•Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for
safety, dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.



•Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best
dose of the drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.



•Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those
results. Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted over a longer term,







involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data regarding the safety
and benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.

FDA Approval Process

When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate filing, usually in the form of an NDA or supplemental NDA, with the FDA seeking approval to sell the
drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee makes a recommendation
to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that the compound has met the required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for
that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes that the drug candidate is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or conclusive.

At any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety
concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA
may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.

The FDA may also require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy
during commercial use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our
product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it
does not believe that we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.

In
addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections
by the FDA. The FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including
our San Dimas facilities, also must be licensed by the State of California in compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility, and our facilities located near
Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must obtain local licenses and permits in compliance with local regulatory requirements.

Drugs that treat serious or life threatening diseases and conditions that are not adequately addressed by existing drugs and for which the development program is designed to address the unmet medical need may be designated as fast track
candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and priority review. Drugs for the treatment of HIV infection that are designated for use under the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or
priority review. Viread, Truvada and Atripla received accelerated approval and priority reviews. Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.

Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In the European Union, there is a centralized
approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the European Union (which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in







one country of the European Union can be used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of two simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or
the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration procedures, separate pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most
countries.

Pricing and Reimbursement

Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. Government
health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product
candidates, government authorities and third party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average
selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. In addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United
States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. These pressures
can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.

Both President Obama’s Administration and the United States Congress have made healthcare reform a top priority and have proposed reforms to extend coverage to millions of uninsured Americans and to
reduce the rate of growth in the costs of government-sponsored healthcare programs. Impending reform legislation in Congress may include reducing the coverage and reimbursement of our products and additional healthcare reform costs being borne by
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, which could have an adverse impact on our business.

In Europe, the
success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs
that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more.







Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals,
including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently,
many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the global economic downturn. As new
drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the European countries. We believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. As a
result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth.

Government agencies also issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, from time to time, professional societies, practice management groups, private
health/science foundations and organizations publish guidelines or recommendations directed to certain health care and patient communities. Such recommendations and guidelines may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of
administration, and use of related or competing therapies and can consequently result in increased or decreased usage of our products.

Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health
care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in exchange for, or to induce, the
referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities, it is possible that certain of our
practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third party payers (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for
reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our sales and marketing activities may be subject to scrutiny under these laws.
Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). If
the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

On August 12, 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and
sales of Ranexa. We have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry.

Compulsory Licenses

In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that
pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own
versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing
compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active
pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority.
If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil.







In 2009, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products.
For 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our HIV products by the Brazilian government will be at a similar level.

In
addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu and H1N1 influenza pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian
government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under Canada’s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche
has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India’s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and
certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of Tamiflu,
those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche’s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries.
Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have
existing commercial sales.

Employees

As of January 31, 2010, we had approximately 3,852 full-time employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees.

Environment, Health and Safety

We seek to comply with all applicable
statutory and administrative requirements concerning environmental quality and worker health and safety. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Such expenditures have not had, and are not
expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.

We are
voluntarily assessing our greenhouse gas emissions, and have begun to take action to reduce such emissions, for example through establishing employee commuter programs and evaluating the energy efficiency of our buildings. Various laws and
regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the California Air Resources Board is in the process of drafting regulations to meet state
emissions targets. Based on current information and subject to the finalization of the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. However, because we are not an energy
intensive business, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any other mitigation measures that would likely to be material to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.

We are also subject to other federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use
hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive compounds in our R&D activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Certain misuse or accidents involving these materials could
lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties.

Other Information

We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other
information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an
electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically.







The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California
94404, and our telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the “Investors” section of our website (under “SEC Filings” in the “Financial Information” section), we
make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.



