ITEM 1.Business

Forward Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects,"  "believes,"  "anticipates," "should," "estimates" and similar expressions.

These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.Factors and risks that may impact future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Part 1,Item 1A, "Risk Factors"and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) including:

·general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate, including changes in demand, risk related to development of self-storage facilities, potential liability for environmental contamination, natural disasters and adverse changes in laws and regulations governing property tax, real estate and zoning;

·risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our customers;

·the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;

·difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations, and manage acquired and developed properties;

·risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, changes in tax laws, and local and global economic uncertainty that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

·risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

·the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, taxes, our tenant reinsurance business and labor, and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;

·risks of increased tax expense associated either with a possible failure by us to qualify as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”), or with challenges to the determination of taxable income for our taxable REIT subsidiaries;

·changes inUnited States (“U.S.”)federal or state tax laws related to the taxation of REITs and other corporations;

·security breaches or a failure of our networks, systems or technology could adversely impact ourbusiness, customer and employee relationships;










·risksassociatedwith the self-insurance of certain business risks, including property and casualty insurance, employee health insurance and workers compensation liabilities;

·difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;

·delays in the development process;

·ongoing litigation and other legal and regulatory actions which may divert management’s time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business; and

·economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

These forward looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of these forward looking statements,except whenexpressly required by law.  Given these risks and uncertainties, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, neither as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance.

General

Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland REIT, was organized in 1980.

At December 31, 2017, our principal business activities were as follows:

(i)Self-storage Operations:  We acquire, develop, ownand operate self-storage facilities,which offer storage spacesfor lease on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in theU.S.We have direct and indirect equity interests in2,386self-storage facilitiesthat we consolidate(an aggregate of159million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.  Wealso own one self-storage facility in London, England which is managed by Shurgard Europe (defined below).

(ii)Ancillary Operations:  We reinsure policies against losses to goods stored by customersin our self-storage facilitiesand sell merchandise, primarily locks and cardboard boxes, at our self-storage facilities.

(iii)Investment in PS Business Parks:  We have a42% equityinterest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly held REIT that owns, operates, acquires and develops commercial properties, primarily multi-tenant flex, office, and industrial parks.  At December 31, 2017, PSB owns and operates 28.0million rentable square feet of commercial space.

(iv)Investment in Shurgard Europe:  Wehave a 49% equity interest in Shurgard Self Storage Europe Limited (“Shurgard Europe”)which owns221self-storage facilities (twelve million net rentable square feet) located in seven countries in Western Europe operated under the “Shurgard” brand name.  We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest ownerand operator of self-storage facilities in WesternEurope.

We also manage approximately27self-storage facilities for third parties.  We are seeking to expand our third-party management operations to further increase our economies of scale and leverage our brand; however, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so.  We alsoown0.9millionnet rentable square feet of commercial space which is managed primarily by PSB.












For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in theInternal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  As a REIT, we do not incurU.S.federal income tax if we distribute 100% of our“REIT taxable income”(generally, net rents and gains from real property, dividends, and interest) each year (for this purpose, certain distributions paid in a subsequent year may be considered), and if we meet certain organizational and operational rules.  We believe we met these requirementsin all periods presented hereinand we expect to continue to elect and qualify as a REIT.

We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants.  Wealso reportquarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements.  We expect to continue such reporting.

On our website,www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.The information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

We believe thatourcustomers generally store their goods within a five mile radius of their home or business.  Ourfacilities compete with nearby self-storage facilitiesowned by other operators using marketing channels similar to ours, including Internet advertising, signage, and bannersand offer services similar to ours.As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.There has been an increase in supply of newly constructed self-storage facilities in several of our markets, most notably Atlanta, Austin, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, and New York.

Ownership and operation of self-storage facilities is highly fragmented.  As the largest owner of self-storage facilities, we believe that we own approximately7% of the self-storage squarefootagein the U.S. and that collectively the five largest self-storage owners in the U.S. own approximately15%,with theremaining 85% owned by numerous regional and local operators.

We generallyownfacilities in major markets.  We believe that we have significant market share andconcentration in major metropolitan centers, withapproximately71%of our 2017same-store revenuesgeneratedin the 20 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (each, an “MSA”, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau) with the highest population levels.  We believe this is a competitive advantage relative to other self-storage operators, which do not have our geographicconcentration and market share.

Industryfragmentation also provides opportunities for us to acquire additional facilities; however, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors who also view self-storage facilities as attractive investments.  The amount of capital available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments.

Business Attributes

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively:

Centralized information networks:Our centralized reporting and information network enables us to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer dataand quickly change each of our individual properties’ pricing and promotionson an automated basis.

Convenient shopping experience:Customers can conveniently shopfor available storage space,reviewing attributes such as facility location, size, amenities such as climate-control, as well as pricing, through the following marketing channels:










·OurDesktop and MobileWebsites:The online marketing channelis a key source of customers.  Approximately69%of our move-ins in 2017weresourced through our websitesand we believe that many of our other customers who reserved directly through our call center or arrived at a facility and moved in without a reservation, have reviewed our pricing and availability online through our websites.We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet to attract potential customers, primarily through the use of search engines, and we regularly updateour websitesto enhancetheirproductivity.

·Our Call Center:Our call center is staffed by skilled sales specialists.  Customersprimarilyreach our call center by calling our advertised toll-free telephone numbers provided onsearch engines or our website.  We believe giving customers the option to interact with a call center agent, despite the higher marginal cost relative toareservationmadeon our websiteenhances our ability to close sales withpotential customers.

·Our Properties:Customers can also shop at any one of our facilities.  Property managers access the same information that is available on our website and to our call center agents, and can inform the customer ofavailable spaceat that site or our other nearby storage facilities.  Property managers aretrained to maximize the conversion of such “walk in” shoppers into customers.

Economies of scale:The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures.  We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a largepercentageofourfacilities in close proximity to each other.

Brand name recognition:We believe that the “Public Storage” brand name is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry, due to our national reachin major markets in 38states, our highly visible facilities,and our facilities’distinct orange colored doors and signage.  We believe the “Public Storage” name is one of the most frequently used search terms used by customers using Internet search engines for self-storage.  We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is awell-established and valuable brand in Europe.  We believe that the awareness of our brand name results in a high percentage of potential storage customers considering our facilitiesrelative to other operators.

Marketing and advertising efficiencies: Our major-market concentration relative to the fragmented ownership and operation of the rest of the industry, combined with our well-recognized brand name, improves our prominence in unpaidonlinesearch results for self-storageandreduces our average cost per “click” formultiple-keyword advertising.Thelarge number of facilitieswe havein majormetropolitan centersenables us to efficiently use television advertisingfrom time to time.Ourcompetitorsgenerallydo not use television advertisingbecause theylack the scale in major metropolitan centers.

Growth and Investment Strategies

Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring more facilities, (iii) developing newfacilities and adding moreself-storage spaceto existing facilities, (iv)participatingin the growth of our investment in PSB, and (v) participating in the growth ofour investment inShurgard Europe.  While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of availableinvestment alternatives.

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities:We seek to increase the net cash flowofour existing self-storage facilities by(i) regularly analyzing our call volume, reservation activity,Internet activity,move-in/move-out rates and other market supply and demand factors and responding by adjusting our marketingand promotionalactivities and rental ratescharged to new and existing customers,(ii) attempting to maximize revenues










through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and(iii) controlling operating costs.  We believe that our property management personnel,information technology, our convenient shopping options for the customer,our economies of scale,and ourInternet marketing andadvertising programs will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

Acquire properties owned by others in the U.S.:

We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide

s

us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.





Self-storage owners decide whether to market their facilities for sale based upon many factors, including potential reinvestment returns, expectations of future growth, estimated value, the cost of debt financing, as well as personal consideration

s.  Our aggressiveness in bidd

ing for particular marketed facilities depends

upon many factors including the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location,

the cash flow we expect from the facility when operated on our platform, how well the facility fits into our current geographic footprint, as well as

our yield expectations.



During



,





and 201


, we

acquired


,


and




facilities, respectively, from third parties for

approximately

$


million

, $429



mi

llion and

$


million, respectively, primarily through

one to five property

portfolio acquisitions.

On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining 74

.25

% of the interests which we did not own in

a limited partnership

that own

s

12 self-storage facilities for

a total cost of

approximately

$136

million

.

We

will continue to seek to acquire properties in 201


; however, there is significant competition to acquire existing facilities.  As a result, there can be no assurance as to the level of facilities we may acquire.

Develop new self-storage facilities and expansion of existing facilities:The development of new self-storage locations and the expansion of existing facilities has beenan important source of growth.Since the beginning of 2013, we haveexpanded our development efforts due in part to the significant increase in prices being paid for existing facilities, in many cases well above the cost of developing new facilities.At December31, 2017, we had a development pipelineto develop new self-storage facilities and, to a lesser extent,expand existing self-storage facilities,which will add approximately4.6million net rentable square feet of self-storage space, at a total cost of $613.8million.Some of these projects are subject to significant contingencies such as entitlement approval.  We expect to continue to seek additional development projects; however,the level of future development may be limited due to various constraints such as difficulty in finding projects that meet our risk-adjusted yield expectations, challenges in obtaining building permits for self-storage activities incertain municipalities, as well as challenges in sourcing quality construction materials, labor, and design elements.

Participate in the growth of PS Business Parks, Inc.:Our investment in PSB provides diversification into another asset type.PSB is a stand-alone public company traded on theNYSE.As of December 31, 2017, we have a 42% equity interest in PSB.

PSB seeks to grow its asset base infavorable markets as well as increase the cash flows from its existing portfolio.As of December 31, 2017, PSB owned and operated approximately 28.0million rentable square feet of commercial space, and had an enterprise value of approximately $5.4billion (baseduponthe trading price of PSB’s common stock combined with the liquidation value of itspreferredstock as of December 31, 2017).

Participate in the growth of Shurgard Europe:We believe Shurgard Europe is the largest self-storagecompany in Western Europe.  It owns andoperates221self-storage facilities withapproximately 12 millionnet rentable square feet in:France (principally Paris), Sweden (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom (principally London), the Netherlands, Denmark (principally Copenhagen), Belgium and Germany.  We own 49% of Shurgard Europe, with the other 51% owned by a large U.S. institutional investor.

Customer awareness and availability of self-storage is significantly lower inEuropethan in the U.S.However, with more awareness and product supply, we believe there is potential for increased demand for storage space in Europe.  In the long run, we believe Shurgard Europe could capitalize on potential increased demand through the development of new facilities or, to a lesser extent, acquiring existing facilities.From 2014 through2017, Shurgard Europeacquired28facilities withan approximate1.4million net rentable square feet in Germany,the Netherlands,the United Kingdomand Francefor an aggregate purchase price of approximately $266.0million.In










addition, from 2014 through2017,Shurgard Europe openedsixdevelopment properties in the United Kingdom containing507,000net rentable square feet at a cost of $81.1million.

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies

Overview of financing strategyand sources of capital:  As a REIT, we generally distribute 100% of our taxable income to our shareholders, which relative to a taxable C corporation, limits the amount of cash flow from operations that we can retain for investments.  As a result, in order to grow our asset base, access to capital is important.

Our financial profile is characterized by strong credit metrics, including low leverage relative to our total capitalization and operating cash flows.  We are one of the highest rated REITs, as rated by major rating agencies Moody’s and Standard&Poor’s.  Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard&Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s.  Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred shares are “A3” by Moody’s and “BBB+” by Standard & Poor’s.  Our credit profile and ratings enables us to effectively access both the public and private capital markets to raise capital.

Sources of capital available to us include retainedoperatingcash flow, the issuance of preferred and common securities, the issuance of medium and long-term debt, joint venture financingand the sale of properties.  We view our line of credit, as well as short-term bank loans, as bridge financing.

Historically, we have financed our cash investment activities primarily with retained operating cash flow and the issuance of preferred securities.  While we have issued common shares, such issuances have been minimal, because preferred securities have had a more attractive cost of capital.  In 2015 and 2016, we issued euro-denominated medium-term debt primarily as a hedge to our euro-denominated investment in Shurgard Europe.On September 18, 2017, we completed a public offering of $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in twoequaltranches (collectively, the “U.S. Dollar Notes”), one maturing in September 2022 bearing interest at 2.370%, and another maturing in September 2027 bearing interest at 3.094%.While wehaveincreasedthe level of debt in our capital structure, we expect to continue to remain conservatively capitalized and not subject ourselves to significant refinancing risk.

We do not expect to use jointventure financing or the sale ofproperties as sources of capital; however, there can be no assurance that we will not.

We select among thesources of capitalavailable to usbased upon relative cost, availability, the desire for leverage, as well as intangibles such as covenants in the case of debt.

Retained operating cash flow:  Although we are required to generally distribute 100% of our taxable incometo ourshareholders, we are nonetheless able to retainoperatingcash flow to the extent that our tax depreciation exceeds our maintenance capital expenditures.  In recent years, we have retained approximately$200 million to$300 million per year in cash flow.

Preferred equity:As noted above, we view preferred equity as an important source of capital over the long term.  However, rates and market conditions for the issuance of preferred securities can be volatile or inefficient from time to time, particularly so in the last few years.  Since 2013, we have issued preferred securities at fixed rates ranging from 4.900% to 6.375%.Most recently, inAugust 2017, we issued $300million of preferred securities at a fixed rate of5.050%.We believe that the market coupon rate of our preferred securities is influenced by long-terminterest rates, as well as demand specifically from retailinvestors.  Institutional investors are generally not buyers of our preferred securities.At December 31, 2017, we have approximately $4.0billion in preferred securities outstanding with an average coupon rate of 5.4% and an average market yield of 5.3%.As ofFebruary 28,2018, we havefourseries of preferred securities that are eligible for redemption, at our option and with 30 days’ notice; our 5.625% Series U Preferred Shares, with $287.5 million outstanding, our 5.375% Series V Preferred Shares with $495.0 million outstanding,our 5.200% SeriesWPreferred Shares with $500.0 million outstandingand our 5.200% Series X Preferred Shares with $225.0 million outstanding.  Redemption of such preferred shares will depend upon many










factors, including the rate at which we could issue replacement preferred securities.  None of our preferred securities are redeemable at the option of the holders.

Medium or long-term debt:We have broad powers to issue debt to fund our business.Our corporate credit ratings are “A” by Standard&Poor’s and “A2” by Moody’s.  We believe this high rating, combined with ourcurrentlevel of debt, could allow us to issue additionalunsecured debt at lower interest rates than the coupon rates on preferred securities.

At December 31, 2017,we have $1.0 billion of U.S. Dollar Notes, as noted above, and approximately €342million of Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes (the “EuroNotes”)outstanding, which were issuedto institutional investorsin 2015 and 2016.

Common equity:Except in connection with mergers, most notably a merger in 2006 with Shurgard Storage Centers, we have not raised capital through the issuance of common equitybecause lower cost alternatives have been available.However, we believe that the market for our common equity is liquid and,as a result,common equity is a significant potential source of capital.

Bridgefinancing:  We have a $500.0 million revolving line of credit which we occasionally use as temporary “bridge” financing, along with short-term bank loans,until we are able to raise longer-term capital.  As of December31, 2017, there wereno borrowings outstanding on our revolving line of creditand no short-term bank loans.

Unlikely capitalalternatives:We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past.We do not expect such issuances to be a material source of capital in the future, though there can be no assurance.

We have participated in joint ventures with institutional investors in the past to acquire, develop, and operate self-storage facilities, most notably Shurgard Europe, in which we own a 49% interest and an institutional investor owns the remaining 51%.  We do not expectjoint venture financing to be a material source of capital in  the futurebecause we have other sources of capital that are less expensiveand because of potential constraints resulting from joint management.However, there can be no assurance that we will not.

Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only when compelled to do so through condemnation proceedings.Because we believe that we are an optimal operator of self-storage facilities, we have generally found that we cannot obtain sufficient value in selling properties.  As a result, we do not expect to raise significant capital selling self-storage facilities; however,though there can be no assurance that we will not.

Investments in Real Estate and Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by ourboard oftrustees(the “Board”)without a shareholder vote:

·Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.

·Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities thatwe control thatown self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilitieslocatedin Europemanagedby Shurgard Europeunder the “Shurgard” brand name.

·Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.










·To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities

At December 31, 2017, we had ownership interests inPSB andShurgard Europe (eachdiscussed above), whichwe do not control or consolidate.On December 31, 2017, we acquired the remaining 74.25% of the interests which we did not own in a partnership owning 12self-storage facilities.

PSB and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that we do not consolidate in our financial statements.Such debt or other obligationshave no recourse to us.See Note 4 to our December 31, 2017financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results ofPSB and Shurgard Europe, as well as PSB’s public filings which are available at its website,www.psbusinessparks.comand on the SEC website.

Canadian self-storage facilities owned byFormer Chairman and Member of Board of Trustees

At December 31, 2017, B. Wayne Hughes, our former Chairman and his daughter, Tamara Hughes Gustavson, a member of our Board of Trustees together owned and controlled 58self-storage facilities in Canada.  These facilities operate under the “Public Storage” tradename, which we license to the owners of these facilities for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis.  We have no ownership interest in these facilities and we do not own or operate any facilities in Canada.  If we chose to acquire or develop our own facilities in Canada, we would have to share the use of the “Public Storage” name in Canada.  We have a right of first refusal, subject to limitations, to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of these facilities if their owners agree to sellthem.  Our subsidiaries reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by customers in these facilities, and have received approximately $1.1 million, $848,000 and $562,000 for the years ended December31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Our right to continue receiving these premiums may be qualified.

Limitations on Debt

Our revolving credit facility, U.S. Dollar Notes and Euro Notescontain various customary financial covenants, including limitationson our ability to encumber our properties with mortgages andlimitationson the level of indebtedness.  We believe we were in compliance with each of these covenants as of December 31, 2017.

Employees

We had approximately 5,600 employeesin the U.S. at December 31, 2017who are engaged primarily in property operations.

Seasonality

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in thedemand forself-storagespace, with demand and rental rates generallyhigher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.

Insurance

We have historically carried property, earthquake, general liability, employee medical insurance and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to deductibles.  Our deductible for general liability is $2.0 million per occurrence.  Our annual deductibles for property losses are $25.0 million for first occurrence with an aggregate of $35.0 million formultipleoccurrences and$5.0 million per occurrence thereafter.Insurance carriers’ aggregate limits on these policies of $75.0 million for property losses and $102.0 million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable losses that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exceeded.












We reinsure a program that provides insurance to our customers from an independent third-party insurer.  This program covers tenant claims for losses to goods stored at our facilities as a result of specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by this program), up to a maximum limit of $5,000 per storage unit.  We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance to cover this exposure for a limit of $15.0 million for losses in excess of $5.0 million per occurrence.The program issubject to licensing requirements andregulations in several states.  Customers participate in the program at their option.  At December 31, 2017, there were approximately900,000 certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $2.8billion.

