ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The statements in this section describe major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.



Our disclosure and analysis in this Form 10-K contains some forward-looking statements that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, current expectations, estimates and forecasts. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public as well as oral forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events. They do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have attempted, wherever possible, to identify forward-looking statements by using words such as “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “anticipate” and other words and terms of similar meaning. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, business plans and prospects, new products, future performance or results of current or anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign-exchange rates, economic effects, the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.



Many of the factors that will determine our future results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Achievement of future results is subject to known or unknown risks or uncertainties, including, without limitation, the risks set forth below. Therefore, actual results could differ materially from past results and those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statement. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements.



Unless required by applicable securities law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. We also refer you to further disclosures we make on related subjects in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K to the SEC.



Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions.



The current uncertainty in the global economy, including the effects of recession or slow economic growth in the U.S., Europe, and emerging markets in Asia and South America, may negatively affect our operating results. Examples of the effects of these global economic challenges include: our suppliers’ and our customers’ inability to access the credit markets at commercially reasonable rates; reduction in sales due to customers decreasing their inventories in the near-term or long-term or due to liquidity difficulties; reduction in sales due to shortages of materials we purchase from our suppliers; reduction in research and development efforts and expenditures by our customers; our inability to hedge our currency and raw material risks sufficiently or at commercially reasonable prices; insolvency of suppliers or customers; inflationary pressures on our supplies or our products; and increased expenses due to growing global taxation of corporate profits or revenues. Our operating results in one or more geographic regions may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within that region. If economic and market conditions in the U.S. or Europe, or in emerging markets, weaken further, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations.



Our sales and profitability are largely dependent on the sale of drug products delivered by injection and the packaging of drug products. If the products developed by our customers in the future use another delivery system, our sales and profitability could suffer.



Our business depends to a substantial extent on customers’ continued sales and development of products that are delivered by injection. If our customers fail to continue to sell, develop and deploy injectable products or we are unable to develop new products that assist in the delivery of drugs by alternative methods, our sales and profitability may suffer.



Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.



Our business is subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for55.4%of our consolidated net sales in2018and we anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to












In addition to translation risks, we incur currency transaction risk when we or one of our subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sales transaction in a currency other than that entity’s local currency. In order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in certain exchange rates, we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into hedging arrangements, including the use of financial derivatives. There can be no certainty that we will be able to enter into or maintain hedges of these currency risks, or that our hedges will be effective, which could have a significant effect on our financial condition and operating results.



If we are unable to provide comparative value advantages, timely fulfill customer orders, or resist pricing pressure, we will have to reduce our prices, which may reduce our profit margins.



We compete with several companies across our major product lines. Because of the special nature of these products, competition is based primarily on product design and performance, although total cost is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost-control programs across their operations. Companies often compete on the basis of price. We aim to differentiate ourselves from our competition by being a “full-service, value-added” global supplier that is able to provide pre-sale compatibility studies, engineering support, and other services and sophisticated post-sale technical support on a global basis. However, we face continued pricing pressure from our customers and competitors. If we are unable to resist or to offset the effects of continued pricing pressure through our value-added services, improved operating efficiencies and reduced expenditures, or if we have to reduce our prices, our sales and profitability may suffer.



Consolidation in the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries could adversely affect our future revenues and operating income.



The pharmaceutical and healthcare industries have experienced a significant amount of consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. In addition, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has placed pricing pressure on suppliers. Further consolidation within the industries we serve could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products.



We are subject to regulation by governments around the world, and if these regulations are not complied with, existing and future operations may be curtailed, and we could be subject to liability.



The design, development, manufacturing, marketing and labeling of certain of our products and our customers’ products that incorporate our products are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and other countries, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the European Medicines Agency, and the National Medical Products Administration (China). Complying with governmental regulation can be costly and can result in required modification or withdrawal of existing products and a substantial delay in the introduction of new products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or failure to obtain regulatory approval for










a new product could result in expenses and actions that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.



Products that incorporate our technologies and medical devices that we produce are subject to regulations and extensive approval or clearance processes, which make the timing and success of new-product commercialization difficult to predict.



The process of obtaining and maintaining FDA and other required regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming. Historically, most medical devices that incorporate our technologies and medical devices that we produce have been subject to the FDA’s 510(k) marketing approval process, which typically lasts from six to nine months. Supplemental or full pre-market approval reviews require a significantly longer period, delaying commercialization. Changes in regulation on a global scale must be monitored and actions taken to ensure ongoing compliance. Pharmaceutical products that incorporate our technologies and medical devices that we produce are subject to the FDA’s New Drug Application process, which typically takes a number of years to complete. Additionally, biotechnology products that incorporate our technologies and medical devices that we produce are subject to the FDA’s Biologics License Application process, which also typically takes a number of years to complete. Outside of the U.S., sales of medical devices and pharmaceutical or biotechnology products are subject to international regulatory requirements that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval for sale internationally may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. There is no certainty that any regulatory approval may be obtained or maintained indefinitely, and our ability to launch products on to the market and maintain market presence is not guaranteed.



Changes in the regulation of drug products and devices may increase competitive pressure and adversely affect our business.



An effect of the governmental regulation of our medical devices and our customers’ drug products, devices, and manufacturing processes is that compliance with regulations makes it difficult to change components and devices produced by one supplier with those from another supplier, due to the large amount of data and information that customers must generate to demonstrate that the components and devices are equivalent and pose no additional risk to the patient. The regulation of our medical devices and our customers’ products that incorporate our components and devices has increased over time. If the applicable regulations were to be modified in a way that reduced the level of data and information needed to prove equivalency for a change from one supplier’s components or devices to those made by another, it is likely that the competitive pressure would increase and adversely affect our sales and profitability.



If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete may be affected.














Disruption in our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make and sell products and have a negative impact on our reputation, performance or financial condition.



We have manufacturing sites throughout the world. In some instances, however, the manufacturing of certain product lines is concentrated in one or only a few of our plants. The functioning of our manufacturing and distribution assets and systems could be disrupted for reasons either within or beyond our control, including, without limitation: extreme weather or longer-term climatic changes; natural disasters; pandemic; war; accidental damage; disruption to the supply of material or services; product quality and safety issues; systems failure; workforce actions; or environmental contamination. There is a risk that incident management systems in place may prove inadequate and that any disruption may materially adversely affect our ability to make and sell products and, therefore, materially adversely affect our reputation, performance or financial condition.



The medical technology industry is very competitive and customer demands and/or new products in the marketplace could cause a reduction in demand.



The medical technology industry is subject to rapid technological changes, and we face significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold. We face this competition from a wide range of companies, including large medical device companies, some of which have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. We also face competition from firms that are more specialized than we are with respect to particular markets. In some instances, competitors, including pharmaceutical companies, also offer, or are attempting to develop, alternative therapies for diseases that may be delivered via their own, or without, a medical device. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies (such as needle-free injection technology) may reduce customer demand for our products or render some of our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In addition, any failure or inability to meet increased customer quality expectations could cause a reduction in demand.



Significant developments in U.S. policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.



Changes in U.S. social, political, regulatory, and economic conditions, or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development, immigration, and investment, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.



Our international sales and operations are subject to risks and uncertainties that vary by country and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.














Disruptions in the supply of key raw materials could adversely impact our operations.



We generally purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our products in the open market. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, many components and raw materials are available and/or purchased only from a single supplier. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for these components or materials or do so without excessive cost. As a result, a reduction or interruption in supply, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.



Unauthorized access to our or our customers’information and systems could negatively impact our business.



Our systems and networks, as well as those of our customers, suppliers, service providers, and banks, have and may in the future become the target of cyberattacks or information security breaches which, in turn, could result in the unauthorized release and misuse of confidential or proprietary information about our company, our employees, or our customers, as well as disrupt our operations or damage our facilities or those of third parties. Additionally, our systems are subject to regulation to preserve the privacy of certain data held on those systems. We maintain an extensive network of technical security controls, policy enforcement mechanisms and monitoring systems, in order to address these threats. While these measures are designed to prevent, detect and respond to unauthorized activity in our systems, certain types of attacks could result in financial or information losses and/or reputational harm. If we cannot comply with regulations or prevent the unauthorized access, release and/or corruption of our or our customers' confidential, classified or personally identifiable information, our reputation could be damaged, and/or we could face financial losses. We may also be required to incur additional costs to modify or enhance our systems, or to try to prevent or remediate any such attacks. Modifying or enhancing our systems may result in unanticipated or prolonged disruption events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or results of operations.



Raw material and energy prices have a significant impact on our profitability. If raw material and/or energy prices increase, and we cannot pass those price increases on to our customers, our profitability and financial condition may suffer.



We use three basic raw materials in the manufacture of our products: elastomers (which include synthetic and natural material), aluminum and plastic. In addition, our manufacturing facilities consume a wide variety of energy products to fuel, heat and cool our operations. Supply and demand factors, which are beyond our control, generally affect the price of our raw materials and utility costs. If we are unable to pass along increased raw material prices and energy costs to our customers, our profitability, and thus our financial condition, may be adversely affected. The prices of many of these raw materials and utilities are cyclical and volatile. For example, the prices of certain commodities, particularly petroleum-based raw materials, have in the recent past exhibited rapid changes, affecting the cost of synthetic elastomers and plastic. While we generally attempt to pass along increased costs to our customers in the form of sales price increases, historically there has been a time delay between raw material and/or energy price increases and our ability to increase the prices of our products. In some circumstances, we may not be able to increase the prices of our products due to competitive pressure and other factors.



If we are not timely or successful in new-product innovation or the development and commercialization of proprietary multi-component systems, our future revenues and operating income could be adversely affected.



Our growth partly depends on new-product innovation and the development and commercialization of proprietary multi-component systems for injectable drug administration and other healthcare applications. Product development and commercialization is inherently uncertain and is subject to a number of factors outside of our control, including any necessary regulatory approvals and commercial acceptance for the products. The ultimate timing and successful commercialization of new products and systems requires substantial evaluations of the functional, operational, clinical and economic viability of our products. In addition, the timely and adequate availability of filling capacity is essential to both conducting definitive stability trials and the timing of commercialization of customers’ products in CZ vials, syringes and cartridges. Delays, interruptions or failures in developing and commercializing new-product










innovations or proprietary multi-component systems could adversely affect future revenues and operating income. In addition, adverse conditions may also result in future charges to recognize impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.



We may not succeed in finding and completing acquisition or other strategic transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.





Product defects could adversely affect the results of our operations.



The design, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical packaging and medical devices involve certain inherent risks. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. A recall could result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals.



Our operations must comply with environmental statutes and regulations, and any failure to comply could result in extensive costs which would harm our business.



The manufacture of some of our products involves the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic materials and is subject to various environmental protection and occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate. This has exposed us in the past, and could expose us in the future, to risks of accidental contamination and events of non-compliance with environmental laws. Any such occurrences could result in regulatory enforcement or personal injury and property damage claims or could lead to a shutdown of some of our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We currently incur costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these costs may become more significant.












A loss of key personnel or highly skilled employees could disrupt our operations.



Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key employees, including our executive officers, individuals in technical, marketing, sales and research positions. Competition for experienced employees, particularly for persons with specialized skills, can be intense. Our ability to recruit such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and work environment. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified executives and employees, our business could be adversely affected. Although we believe that we will be able to attract and retain talented personnel and replace key personnel should the need arise, our inability to do so on a timely basis could disrupt the operations of the unit affected or our overall operations. In addition, because of the complex nature of many of our products and programs, we are generally dependent on an educated and highly skilled engineering staff and workforce. Our operations could be disrupted by a shortage of available skilled employees.



The uncertain effects of potential climate change legislation could lead to significantly increased costs.



If legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated in the U.S., Europe or Asia or any other jurisdictions in which we do business that limit or reduce allowable greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions, such restrictions could have a significant effect on our operating and financial decisions, including those involving capital expenditures to reduce emissions, and our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations may not be able to operate as planned if we are not able to comply with new legal and regulatory legislation around climate change, or it may become too costly to operate in a profitable manner. Additionally, suppliers’ added expenses could be passed on to us in the form of higher prices and we may not be able to pass on such expenses to our customers through price increases.



Healthcare reform may adversely affect our results of operations.



Changes in the U.S. or international healthcare systems, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “PPACA”), could result in reduced demand for our products, as our sales depend, in part, on the extent to which pharmaceutical companies and healthcare providers and facilities are reimbursed by government authorities, private insurers and other third-party payers for the costs of our products. The coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, which can vary among public and private sources, may affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for these products in a particular jurisdiction. Legislative or administrative reforms to reimbursement systems in the U.S. (including the possible termination of the PPACA and potential replacement thereafter with a different system) or abroad (for example, those under consideration in France, Germany, Italy and the United Kingdom) could significantly reduce reimbursement for our customers’ products, which could in turn reduce the demand for our products.



Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to global governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products. We will continue to evaluate the PPACA, as amended, the implementation of regulations or guidance related to various provisions of the PPACA by federal agencies, the potential repeal and replacement of the PPACA, as well as trends and changes that may be encouraged by the legislation and other healthcare legislation globally and that may potentially impact our business over time.



No assurance can be given that we will continue to pay or declare dividends.



We have historically paid dividends. However, there can be no assurance that we will pay or declare dividends in the future. The actual declaration and payment of future dividends, the amount of any such dividends, and the establishment of record and payment dates, if any, are subject to determination by our Board of Directors each quarter after its review of our then-current strategy, applicable debt covenants and financial performance and position, among other things. Our declaration and payment of future dividends is subject to risks and uncertainties, including: deterioration of our financial performance or position; inability to declare a dividend in compliance with applicable laws or debt covenants; an increase in our cash needs or decrease in available cash; and the business judgment of the Board of Directors that a declaration of a dividend is not in our best interest.












Our results of operations and earnings may not meet guidance or expectations.



We provide public guidance on our expected results of operations for future periods. This guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K and in our other public filings and public statements, and is based necessarily on assumptions we make at the time we provide such guidance. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our results of operations for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly.



We are exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable and certain prepayments made in the normal course of business. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.



A substantial majority of our outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. In addition, we have made prepayments associated with insurance premiums and other advances in the normal course of business. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on trade receivables and other current assets, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.



If we fail to comply with our obligations under our distributorship or license agreements with Daikyo, the agreements are terminated early or we are unable to renew these agreements on the same or substantially similar terms, we could lose license rights that are important to our business.



Key value-added and proprietary products and processes are licensed from our affiliate, Daikyo, including but not limited to, CZ, FluroTec®and B2-coating technologies. Our rights to these products and processes are licensed pursuant to agreements that expire in 2027. However, if the agreements are terminated early, our business could be adversely impacted.





ITEM IB.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS



As of the filing of this Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the SEC.














ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES



Our corporate headquarters are located at 530 Herman O. West Drive, Exton, Pennsylvania.



The following table summarizes production facilities by segment and geographic region. All facilities shown are owned except where otherwise noted.

Proprietary ProductsManufacturing:North American OperationsEuropean OperationsAsia Pacific OperationsUnited StatesDenmarkChinaClearwater, FLHorsensQingpuJersey Shore, PAEnglandIndiaKearney, NESt. AustellSri CityKinston, NCFranceSingaporeLititz, PALe NouvionJurongScottsdale, AZ (2)Le VaudreuilSt. Petersburg, FL (1)GermanyEschweiler (1) (2)South American OperationsStolbergBrazilIrelandSao PauloWaterfordSerbiaKovinMold-and-Die Tool Shop:Contract Analytical Laboratory:North American OperationsEuropean OperationsNorth American OperationsUnited StatesEnglandUnited StatesUpper Darby, PABodmin (2)Exton, PAContract-Manufactured ProductsManufacturing:North American OperationsEuropean OperationsUnited StatesIrelandGrand Rapids, MIDublin (2)Phoenix, AZ (2)Tempe, AZ (2)Williamsport, PAPuerto RicoCayey



(1)This manufacturing facility is also used for research and development activities.

(2)This facility is leased in whole or in part.



Our Proprietary Products reportable segment leases facilities located in Germany, Israel and New Jersey for research and development, as well as other activities. Sales offices in various locations are leased under short-term arrangements.














ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.





ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES



Not applicable.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY



The executive officers of the Company are set forth in this table. Generally, executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Additionally, executive officers may be elected upon hire or due to a promotion.





NameAgePosition

Silji Abraham47Senior Vice President, Chief Digital and Transformation Officer since February 2018. Prior to joining West, he most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of MilliporeSigma, a subsidiary of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany. Prior to this role, he served as Chief Information Officer at Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, a leading life science and technology company, and worked in various leadership roles at Invensys Operations Management, ArvinMeritor and Chrysler Group.



Bernard J. Birkett50Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since June 2018. Prior to joining West, he spent more than 20 years at Merit Medical Systems, Inc., a leading manufacturer of disposable medical devices, where he served in a number of senior global leadership roles, including Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Controller for Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Vice President of International Finance.



Annette F. Favorite54Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since October 2015. Prior to joining West, she spent more than 25 years at IBM Corporation, an information technology services company, in a number of strategic and global human resources roles. Most recently, she served as Vice President, Global Talent Management.



Karen A. Flynn56Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since January 2016. She was President, Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems from October 2014 to January 2016, President, Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems Americas Region from June 2012 to October 2014, and Vice President, Sales from May 2008 to June 2012. From 2000 to 2008, she worked in Sales Management, most recently as Vice President, Global Accounts, for Catalent (formerly a business segment of Cardinal Health). Prior thereto, she held various positions at West, including roles in Quality, Research and Development, and Sales.



Eric M. Green49Chief Executive Officer since April 2015 and President since December 2015. Prior to joining West, he was Executive Vice President and President of the Research Markets business unit at Sigma-Aldrich Corporation from 2013 to 2015. From 2009 to 2013, he served as Vice President and Managing Director, International, where he was responsible for Asia Pacific and Latin America, and prior thereto, held various commercial and operational roles.



Quintin J. Lai52Vice President, Corporate Development, Strategy and Investor Relations since January 2016. Prior to joining West, he was Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Strategy at Sigma-Aldrich Corporation from 2012 to 2015. From 2002 to 2012, he was at Robert W. Baird & Company, where he held various roles, including Managing Director and Senior Equity Research Analyst of the Life Science Tools and Diagnostic sector and Associate Director of Equity Research.
















Daniel Malone57Vice President and Corporate Controller since August 2011.  He was Vice President of Finance, Pharmaceutical Packaging Systems Americas Region, from September 2008 to August 2011, and Director of Financial and Management Reporting from October 1999 to September 2008.



George L. Miller64Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since joining West in November 2015. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for Sigma-Aldrich Corporation from 2009 to 2015. Prior to working at Sigma-Aldrich, he held senior legal positions with Novartis AG, a global healthcare company.



David A. Montecalvo53Senior Vice President, Global Operations and Supply Chain since September 2016. Prior to joining West, he served in a number of senior leadership roles at Medtronic plc, including Vice President, Contract Manufacturing Operations, for the company’s Restorative Therapies Group, and Vice President, Business Operations Integration, where he was responsible for directing and leading the global operations integration of Covidien plc into Medtronic. Prior thereto, he held senior operations and product development roles at Urologix, Inc. and LecTec Corporation.



Eric Resnick55Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since March 2016. Previously, he served as Vice President and General Manager of Integrated Packaging and Delivery within West’s Innovation and Technology Team and President Proprietary Products - Pharmaceutical Delivery Systems from March 2015 until March 2016. He served as Vice President Research and Development and Self-Injection Systems from March 2014 until March 2015, and Vice President and General Manager of West’s Contract Manufacturing Delivery Devices division from 2008 until March 2014. Prior thereto, he held various positions of increasing responsibility since joining The Tech Group in 2001. Prior to joining West, he held engineering and operating roles with Eastman Kodak Company and Ortho Clinical Diagnostics.



PART II





ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “WST.” The following table shows the high and low prices for our common stock as reported by the NYSE, for the periods indicated.



First QuarterSecond QuarterThird QuarterFourth QuarterYearHighLowHighLowHighLowHighLowHighLow2018$102.80$84.73$102.14$82.74$124.51$96.97$125.09$91.75$125.09$82.742017$88.30$79.06$99.91$77.97$96.81$80.02$103.36$89.77$103.36$77.97



As of January 31, 2019, we had 805 shareholders of record, which excludes shareholders whose shares were held by brokerage firms, depositaries and other institutional firms in “street names” for their customers.



Dividends



Our common stock paid a quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share in each of the first three quarters of 2017; $0.14 per share in the fourth quarter of 2017 and each of the first three quarters of 2018; and $0.15 per share in the fourth quarter of 2018.












Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities



The following table shows information with respect to purchases of our common stock made during the three months endedDecember 31, 2018by us or any of our “affiliated purchasers” as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Exchange Act:

PeriodTotal number of shares purchased(1)(2)Average price paid per share(1)(2)Total number of shares purchased aspart of publiclyannounced plans orprograms(2)Maximum number (or approximate dollar value)of shares that mayyet be purchasedunder the plans orprograms(2) (3)October 1 – 31, 2018—$———November 1 – 30, 2018140108.80——December 1 – 31, 2018————Total140$108.80——

(1)Includes 140 shares purchased on behalf of employees enrolled in the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Designated Employees (Amended and Restated Effective December 1, 2018). Under the plan, Company match contributions are delivered to the plan’s investment administrator, who then purchases shares in the open market and credits the shares to individual plan accounts.

(2)In February 2018, we announced a share repurchase program for calendar-year 2018 authorizing the repurchase of up to 800,000 shares of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately-negotiated transactions as permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b-18. The number of shares repurchased and the timing of such transactions depended on a variety of factors, including market conditions. There were no shares purchased during the three months ended December 31, 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we purchased 800,000 shares of our common stock under the program at a cost of $70.8 million, or an average price of $88.51 per share.

(3)In February 2019, we announced a share repurchase program for calendar-year 2019 authorizing the repurchase of up to 800,000 shares of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately-negotiated transactions as permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b-18. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such transactions will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions. This share repurchase program is expected to be completed by December 31, 2019.










Performance Graph



The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return to holders of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the following Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) indices, for the five years ended December 31, 2018: 500, MidCap 400 Index and 400 Health Care Equipment & Supplies Industry.



Cumulative total return to shareholders is measured by dividing total dividends (assuming dividend reinvestment) plus the per-share price change for the period by the share price at the beginning of the period. The Company’s cumulative shareholder return is based on an investment of $100 on December 31, 2013 and is compared to the cumulative total return of the S&P indices mentioned above over the period with a like amount invested.


















ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries



(in millions, except per share data)20182017201620152014SUMMARY OF OPERATIONSNet sales$1,717.4$1,599.1$1,509.1$1,399.8$1,421.4Operating profit †240.3225.8195.2177.0182.0Net income206.9150.7143.695.6127.1Net income per share:Basic (1)$2.80$2.04$1.96$1.33$1.79Diluted (2)2.741.991.911.301.75Weighted average common shares outstanding73.973.973.372.070.9Weighted average shares assuming dilution75.475.875.073.872.8Dividends declared per common share$0.58$0.54$0.50$0.46$0.41YEAR-END FINANCIAL POSITIONCash and cash equivalents$337.4$235.9$203.0$274.6$255.3Working capital610.7464.0400.9359.4406.6Total assets1,978.91,862.81,716.71,695.11,669.7Total invested capital:Total debt196.1197.0228.6298.2335.5Total equity1,396.31,279.91,117.51,023.9956.9Total invested capital$1,592.4$1,476.9$1,346.1$1,322.1$1,292.4PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENTS (3)Gross margin (a)31.8%32.1%33.2%32.6%31.5%Operating profitability (b) †14.0%14.1%12.9%12.6%12.8%Effective tax rate (4)17.2%36.4%28.7%22.6%28.0%Return on invested capital (c) †13.0%10.2%10.4%10.5%10.2%Net debt-to-total invested capital (d)N/AN/A2.2%2.3%7.7%Research and development expenses$40.3$39.1$36.8$34.1$37.3Operating cash flow288.6263.3219.4212.4182.9Stock price range$125.09-82.74$103.36-77.97$86.50-53.88$64.59-48.66$55.29-39.11



(1) Based on weighted average common shares outstanding.



(2) Based on weighted average shares, assuming dilution.



(3) Performance measurements represent indicators commonly used in the financial community. The following performance measures are not in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and should not be used as a substitute for the comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are included as management uses them in evaluating our results of operations, and believes that this information provides users with a valuable insight into our overall performance and financial position.



(a) Net sales minus cost of goods and services sold, including applicable depreciation and amortization, divided by net sales.

(b) Operating profit divided by net sales.

(c) Operating profit multiplied by one minus the effective tax rate divided by average total invested capital.

(d) Net debt (total debt less cash and cash equivalents) divided by total invested capital less cash and cash equivalents.












(4) As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Tax Act”), the federal statutory rate was reduced from 35.0% to 21.0% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Please refer to Note 16,Income Taxes,for further discussion of the 2017 Tax Act.



†   Reflects our adoption of the guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) regarding the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost (net benefit cost).



Factors affecting the comparability of the information reflected in the selected financial data:



▪Net income in 2018 included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $7.2 million (net of $1.9 million in tax), a gain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans of $0.9 million (net of $0.2 million in tax), a charge of $1.1 million related to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018, a net tax benefit of $2.5 million for the impact of tax law changes, including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $14.3 million associated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



▪Net income in 2017 included the impact of a discrete tax charge of $48.8 million related to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances, as well as a tax benefit of $33.1 million associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions and a charge of $11.1 million related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary.



▪Net income in 2016 included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $17.4 million (net of $9.0 million in tax), a charge related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar of $2.7 million, a pension curtailment gain of $1.3 million (net of $0.8 million in tax), and a discrete tax charge of $1.0 million.



▪Net income in 2015 included the impact of a pension settlement charge of $32.0 million (net of $18.4 million in tax), a charge for executive retirement and related costs of $6.9 million (net of $4.0 million in tax) and a discrete tax charge of $0.8 million.



▪Net income in 2014 included the impact of a charge for license costs associated with acquired in-process research of $0.8 million (net of $0.4 million in tax) and discrete tax charges of $1.8 million.





ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



OVERVIEW



The following discussion is intended to further the reader’s understanding of the consolidated financial condition and results of operations of our Company. It should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying footnotes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. These historical financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance. This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on our current expectations and could be affected by the uncertainties and risks discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.



Non-U.S. GAAP Financial Measures



For the purpose of aiding the comparison of our year-over-year results, we may refer to net sales and other financial results excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The constant-currency amounts are calculated by translating the current year’s functional currency results at the prior-year period’s exchange rate. We may also refer to consolidated operating profit and consolidated operating profit margin excluding the effects of unallocated items. The re-measured results excluding effects from currency translation and excluding the effects of










unallocated items are not in conformity with U.S. GAAP and should not be used as a substitute for the comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are incorporated into our discussion and analysis as management uses them in evaluating our results of operations, and believes that this information provides users a valuable insight into our results.



Our Operations



We are a leading global manufacturer in the design and production of technologically advanced, high-quality, integrated containment and delivery systems for injectable drugs and healthcare products. Our products include a variety of primary packaging, containment solutions, reconstitution and transfer systems, and drug delivery systems, as well as contract manufacturing and analytical lab services. Our customers include the leading biologic, generic, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device companies in the world. Our top priority is delivering quality products that meet the exact product specifications and quality standards customers require and expect. This focus on quality includes excellence in manufacturing, scientific and technical expertise and management, so we can partner with our customers to deliver safe, effective drug products to patients quickly and efficiently. The Company was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on July 27, 1923.



Our business operations are organized into two reportable segments, Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Our Proprietary Products reportable segment offers proprietary packaging, containment and drug delivery products, along with analytical lab services, to biologic, generic and pharmaceutical drug customers. Our Contract-Manufactured Products reportable segment serves as a fully integrated business, focused on the design, manufacture, and automated assembly of complex devices, primarily for pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device customers. We also maintain partnerships to share technologies and market products with affiliates in Japan and Mexico.



2018 Financial Performance Summary



Consolidated net salesincreasedby$118.3 million, or7.4%, in 2018. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, consolidated net salesincreasedby $89.7 million, or 5.6%.



Net income in2018was$206.9 million, or$2.74per diluted share, compared to$150.7 million, or$1.99per diluted share, in2017. Net income in 2018 included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $7.2 million (net of $1.9 million in tax), or $0.09 per diluted share, a gain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans of $0.9 million (net of $0.2 million in tax), or $0.01 per diluted share, a charge of $1.1 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, related to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018, a net tax benefit of $2.5 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, for the impact of tax law changes, including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $14.3 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, associated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions. Net income in 2017 included the impact of a discrete tax charge of $48.8 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, related to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances, a tax benefit of $33.1 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions, and a charge of $11.1 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary.



On January 24, 2019, we issued a voluntary recall of our Vial2Bag®product line due to reports of potential unpredictable or variable dosing under certain conditions. Our 2018 results included an $11.3 million provision for product returns, recorded as a reduction of sales. Our inventory balance for these devices was $6.5 million at December 31, 2018, which included estimated in-transit inventory being returned by our customers. We are working to develop the support required to get the products back on the market, and we currently believe the returned inventory will be saleable in 2019.



AtDecember 31, 2018, our cash and cash equivalents balance totaled $337.4 million and our available borrowing capacity under our $300.0 million multi-currency revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) was$268.9 million.














RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



We evaluate the performance of our segments based upon, among other things, segment net sales and operating profit. Segment operating profit excludes general corporate costs, which include executive and director compensation, stock-based compensation, adjustments to annual incentive plan expense for over- or under-attainment of targets, certain pension and other retirement benefit costs, and other corporate facilities and administrative expenses not allocated to the segments. Also excluded are items that we consider not representative of ongoing operations. Such items are referred to as other unallocated items and generally include restructuring and related charges, certain asset impairments and other specifically-identified income or expense items.



Percentages in the following tables and throughout thisResults of Operationssection may reflect rounding adjustments.



Net Sales



The following table presents net sales, consolidated and by reportable segment:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Proprietary Products$1,308.6$1,236.9$1,189.95.8%3.9%Contract-Manufactured Products409.1362.5320.212.9%13.2%Intersegment sales elimination(0.3)(0.3)(1.0)—%—%Consolidated net sales$1,717.4$1,599.1$1,509.17.4%6.0%



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated net sales increased by$118.3 million, or7.4%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $28.6 million. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, consolidated net salesincreasedby $89.7 million, or 5.6%.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products net salesincreasedby$71.7 million, or5.8%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $23.8 million. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, net salesincreasedby $47.9 million, or 3.9%, as growth in our high-value product offerings, including our Westar®and FluroTec-coated components, our ready-to-use seals, stoppers, and plungers, and our NovaPure®products, as well as sales price increases, partially offset the impact of the voluntary recall of Vial2Bag products and the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary as of April 1, 2017.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products net salesincreasedby$46.6 million, or12.9%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $4.8 million. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, net salesincreasedby $41.8 million, or 11.6%, despite the impact of the loss of a consumer-product customer in early 2018. Higher sales volume, particularly in Ireland, contributed 10.4 percentage points of the increase, and sales price increases contributed 1.2 percentage points of the increase.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated net salesincreasedby$90.0 million, or6.0%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$12.2 million. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, consolidated net salesincreasedby$77.8 million, or5.2%.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products net salesincreasedby$47.0 million, or3.9%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$8.4 million. Excluding foreign currency translation effects, net salesincreasedby$38.6 million, or3.2%. Proprietary Products sales growth in 2017 was slower than in 2016,

as customers continued to work down inventory purchased in 2016 mostly to address long production lead-times for

high-value products. Additional production capacity and staffing improved our lead-times, and we began to see










positive growth for customers in the Biologics and Generics market units. Higher sales volume contributed 2.2

percentage points of the increase, and sales price increases contributed 1.0 percentage points of the increase.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products net salesincreasedby$42.3 million, or13.2%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$3.8 million. Excluding foreign

currency translation effects, net salesincreasedby$38.5 million, or12.0%, primarily due to the initial commercial

ramp-up of projects that commenced in the latter half of 2016. Higher sales volume contributed 10.8 percentage

points of the increase, and sales price increases contributed 1.2 percentage points of the increase.



Gross Profit



The following table presents gross profit and related gross margins, consolidated and by reportable segment:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Proprietary Products:Gross profit$485.4$449.3$448.38.0%0.2%Gross profit margin37.1%36.3%37.7%Contract-Manufactured Products:Gross profit$60.0$63.6$53.1(5.7)%19.8%Gross profit margin14.7%17.5%16.5%Consolidated gross profit$545.4$512.9$501.46.3%2.3%Consolidated gross profit margin31.8%32.1%33.2%



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated gross profitincreasedby$32.5 million, or6.3%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $9.3 million. Consolidated gross profit margindecreasedby0.3margin points in2018.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products gross profitincreasedby$36.1 million, or8.0%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $8.5 million. Proprietary Products gross profit marginincreasedby0.8margin points in2018, as production efficiencies, a favorable mix of products sold, and sales price increases were partially offset by the impact of under-absorbed overhead costs from our new facility in Waterford, Ireland and the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary as of April 1, 2017, as well as increased labor and depreciation costs and higher raw material costs.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products gross profitdecreasedby$3.6 million, or 5.7%, in2018, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of $0.8 million. Contract-Manufactured Products gross profit margindecreasedby2.8margin points in2018, due to unabsorbed overhead from plant consolidation activities, start-up costs associated with the launch of new programs, an unfavorable mix of product sales, and lower profitability on development and tooling agreements, and higher raw material costs, partially offset by sales price increases and production efficiencies.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated gross profitincreasedby$11.5 million, or2.3%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$3.3 million. Consolidated gross profit margindecreasedby1.1margin points in2017.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products gross profitincreasedby$1.0 million, or0.2%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$2.6 million. Proprietary Products gross profit margindecreasedby1.4margin points in2017, as production efficiencies and modest price increases were more than offset by increased material labor and overhead costs.












Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products gross profitincreasedby$10.5 million, or19.8%, in2017, includinga favorableforeign currency translation impact of$0.7 million. Contract-Manufactured Products gross profit marginincreasedby1.0margin points in2017, as sales price increases, a favorable mix of products sold, higher sales volume, and production efficiencies were partially offset by increased labor, overhead, and depreciation costs.



Research and Development (“R&D”) Costs



The following table presents R&D costs, consolidated and by reportable segment:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Proprietary Products$40.3$39.1$36.83.1%6.3%Contract-Manufactured Products—————Consolidated R&D costs$40.3$39.1$36.83.1%6.3%



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated R&D costsincreasedby$1.2 million, or3.1%, in2018. Efforts remain focused on the continued investment in self-injection systems development, elastomeric packaging components, and formulation development.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated R&D costsincreasedby$2.3 million, or6.3%, in2017, due to continued investment in self-injection systems development and formulation development.



All of the R&D costs incurred during2018and2017related to Proprietary Products.



Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Costs



The following table presents SG&A costs, consolidated and by reportable segment and corporate:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Proprietary Products$185.0$175.3$167.45.5%4.7%Contract-Manufactured Products16.515.415.27.1%1.3%Corporate61.455.357.011.0%(3.0)%Consolidated SG&A costs$262.9$246.0$239.66.9%2.7%SG&A as a % of net sales15.3%15.4%15.9%



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated SG&A costsincreasedby$16.9 million, or6.9%, in2018, including the impact of foreign currency translation, whichincreasedSG&A costs by $2.4 million.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products SG&A costsincreasedby$9.7 million, or5.5%, in2018, due to higher commercial sales compensation costs and legal costs. Foreign currency translationincreasedProprietary Products SG&A costs by $2.3 million.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products SG&A costsincreasedby$1.1 million, or7.1%, in2018, due to increases in compensation and miscellaneous costs.












Corporate –Corporate SG&A costs increased by $6.1 million, or 11.0%, in2018, primarily due to the impact of higher achievement levels on incentive compensation costs and increased personnel costs.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated SG&A costsincreasedby$6.4 million, or2.7%, in2017, including the impact of foreign currency

translation, which increased SG&A costs by $1.2 million.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products SG&A costsincreasedby$7.9 million, or4.7%, in2017, due to

increases in compensation costs, primarily related to headcount and merit increases. Foreign currency translation

increased Proprietary Products SG&A costs by $1.2 million.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products SG&A costsincreasedby$0.2 million, or

1.3%, in2017, due to an increase in incentive compensation and travel costs.



Corporate –Corporate SG&A costsdecreasedby$1.7 million, or3.0%, in2017, due to decreases in U.S.

pension costs and stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by increases in headcount and outside services.



Other Expense



The following table presents other income and expense items, consolidated and by reportable segment and unallocated items:

Expense (income)Year Ended December 31,($ in millions)201820172016Proprietary Products$(6.3)$(8.9)$1.0Contract-Manufactured Products(0.8)(0.1)(0.3)Corporate(0.1)(0.1)—Unallocated items9.111.129.1Consolidated other expense$1.9$2.0$29.8



Other income and expense items, consisting of foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets, development and licensing income, contingent consideration, and miscellaneous income and charges, are generally recorded within segment results.



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated other expensedecreasedby$0.1 millionin2018.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products other income decreased by$2.6 millionin2018, primarily as we recorded income of $9.1 million attributable to the reimbursement of certain costs related to a technology that we subsequently licensed to a third party in 2017, partially offset by foreign exchange transaction gains in Europe in 2018. Please refer to Note 15,Other Expense, for further discussion of the $9.1 million attributable to the reimbursement of certain costs.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products other income increased by$0.7 millionin2018, due to gains on the sale of fixed assets.



Corporate –Corporate other income remained constant at $0.1 million in 2018.



Unallocated items –During2018, we recorded $9.1 million in restructuring and related charges, a $1.1 million gain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans, and a charge of $1.1 million related to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018. Once fully










completed, we expect that our 2018 restructuring plan will provide annualized savings in the range of $13.5 million to $14.5 million. Please refer to Note 15,Other Expense, for further discussion of these items.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated other expense decreased by $27.8 million in 2017.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products other (income) expense changed by $9.9 million in 2017, primarily as we recorded income of $9.1 million attributable to the reimbursement of certain costs related to a technology that we subsequently licensed to a third party.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products other income decreased by $0.2 million in 2017, due to gains on the sale of fixed assets recorded in 2016, partially offset by foreign exchange transaction gains recorded in 2017.



Corporate –Corporate other income increased by $0.1 million in 2017.



Unallocated items –During 2017, as a result of the continued deterioration of conditions in Venezuela as well as our continued reduced access to USD settlement controlled by the Venezuelan government, we recorded a charge of $11.1 million related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary, following our determination that we no longer met the U.S. GAAP criteria for control of that subsidiary. Please refer to Note 15,Other Expense,for further discussion of these items.



Operating Profit



The following table presents adjusted operating profit, consolidated and by reportable segment, corporate and unallocated items:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Proprietary Products$266.4$243.8$243.19.3%0.3%Contract-Manufactured Products44.348.338.2(8.3)%26.4%Corporate(61.3)(55.2)(57.0)11.1%(3.2)%Adjusted consolidated operating profit$249.4$236.9$224.35.3%5.6%Adjusted consolidated operating profit margin14.5%14.8%14.9%Unallocated items(9.1)(11.1)(29.1)Consolidated operating profit$240.3$225.8$195.26.4%15.7%Consolidated operating profit margin14.0%14.1%12.9%



2018 compared to 2017

Consolidated operating profitincreasedby$14.5 million, or6.4%, in2018, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $6.6 million.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products operating profitincreasedby$22.6 million, or9.3%, in 2018, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $5.9 million, due to the factors described above.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products operating profitdecreasedby$4.0 million, or8.3%, in2018, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $0.7 million, due to the factors described above.



Corporate –Corporate costs increased by$6.1 million, or11.1%, in2018, due to the factors described above.












Unallocated items –Please refer to theOther Expensesection for details.



Excluding the unallocated items, our adjusted consolidated operating profit margindecreasedby 0.3 margin points in2018.



2017 compared to 2016

Consolidated operating profit increased by $30.6 million, or 15.7%, in 2017, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $1.6 million.



Proprietary Products –Proprietary Products operating profit increased by $0.7 million, or 0.3%, in 2017, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $0.9 million, due to the factors described above.



Contract-Manufactured Products –Contract-Manufactured Products operating profit increased by $10.1 million, or 26.4%, in 2017, including a favorable foreign currency translation impact of $0.7 million, due to the factors described above.



Corporate –Corporate costs decreased by $1.8 million, or 3.2%, in 2017, due to the factors described above.



Unallocated items –Please refer to theOther Expensesection for details.



Excluding the unallocated items, our adjusted consolidated operating profit margin decreased by 0.1 margin points in 2017.



Interest Expense, Net



The following table presents interest expense, net, by significant component:

Year Ended December 31,% Change($ in millions)2018201720162018/20172017/2016Interest expense$9.3$10.5$11.7(11.4)%(10.3)%Capitalized interest(0.9)(2.7)(3.6)(66.7)%(25.0)%Interest income(2.1)(1.3)(1.1)61.5%18.2%Interest expense, net$6.3$6.5$7.0(3.1)%(7.1)%



2018 compared to 2017

Interest expense, net,decreasedby$0.2 million, or3.1%, in2018, due to lower interest expense resulting from less average debt outstanding during 2018, as compared to 2017, and an increase in interest income, partially offset by a decrease in capitalized interest due to the completion of several major projects in 2017, including certain components of our new facility in Waterford, Ireland. The Waterford facility began commercial production during the second half of 2018.



2017 compared to 2016

Interest expense, net, decreased by $0.5 million, or 7.1%, in 2017, due to lower interest expense resulting from less average debt outstanding during 2017, as compared to 2016, partially offset by a decrease in capitalized interest.



Other Nonoperating Income



2018 compared to 2017

Other nonoperating income increased by $3.6 million in 2018, due to an increase in the expected return on pension plan assets and a decrease in recognized actuarial losses for 2018. Please refer to Note 2,New Accounting Standards, and Note 14,Benefit Plans, for information on guidance issued by the FASB on the presentation of net periodic










pension and postretirement benefit cost (net benefit cost) that we adopted as of January 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis.



2017 compared to 2016

Other nonoperating income increased by $1.5 million in 2017, primarily due to an increase in the expected return on pension plan assets for 2017.



Income Taxes



The provision for income taxes was$41.4 million,$80.9 million, and$54.4 millionfor the years2018,2017, and2016, respectively, and the effective tax rate was 17.2%,36.4%, and28.7%, respectively.



During 2018, we recorded a net tax benefit of $2.5 million for the impact of tax law changes, including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $14.3 million associated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions. Please refer to Note 16,Income Taxes, for further discussion of the 2017 Tax Act.



During 2017, we recorded a discrete tax charge of $48.8 million related to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances, as well as a tax benefit of $33.1 million associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



During 2016, we recorded a tax benefit of $9.0 million in connection with restructuring and related charges of $26.4 million, a discrete tax charge of $0.8 million related to the pension curtailment gain of $2.1 million, and a discrete tax charge of $1.0 million resulting from the impact of changes in enacted tax rates on our previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances.



Please refer to Note 16,Income Taxes, for further discussion of our income taxes.



Equity in Net Income of Affiliated Companies



Equity in net income of affiliated companies represents the contribution to earnings from our 25% ownership interest in Daikyo and our 49% ownership interest in four companies in Mexico. Equity in net income of affiliated companies was$7.6 million,$9.2 million, and$8.2 millionfor the years2018,2017, and2016, respectively. Equity in net income of affiliated companiesdecreasedby$1.6 million, or 17.4%, in2018, primarily due to the impact of gains on the sale of investment securities by Daikyo in 2017. Equity in net income of affiliated companiesincreasedby$1.0 million, or12.2%, in2017, due to the impact of gains on the sale of investment securities by Daikyo, partially offset by foreign exchange transaction losses in Mexico.



Net Income



Net income in2018was$206.9 million, or$2.74per diluted share, compared to$150.7 million, or$1.99per diluted share, in2017. Our2018results included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $7.2 million (net of $1.9 million in tax), a gain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans of $0.9 million (net of $0.2 million in tax), a charge of $1.1 million related to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018, a net tax benefit of $2.5 million for the impact of tax law changes, including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $14.3 million associated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



Net income in 2017 was $150.7 million, or $1.99 per diluted share, compared to $143.6 million, or $1.91 per diluted share, in 2016. Our 2017 results included the impact of a discrete tax charge of $48.8 million related to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances, as well as a tax benefit of $33.1 million associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the










FASB regarding share-based payment transactions and a charge of $11.1 million related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary.



Net income in 2016 was $143.6 million, or $1.91 per diluted share, compared to $95.6 million, or $1.30 per diluted share, in 2015. Our 2016 results included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $17.4 million (net of $9.0 million in tax), a charge related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar of $2.7 million, a pension curtailment gain of $1.3 million (net of $0.8 million in tax), and a discrete tax charge of $1.0 million.





FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES



Cash Flows



The following table presents cash flow data for the years endedDecember 31:

($ in millions)201820172016Net cash provided by operating activities$288.6$263.3$219.4Net cash used in investing activities$(100.8)$(133.6)$(175.8)Net cash used in financing activities$(80.7)$(109.0)$(113.9)



Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities



2018 compared to 2017

Net cash provided by operating activitiesincreasedby$25.3 millionin2018, primarily due to improved operating results and a decrease in pension plan contributions in 2018.



2017 compared to 2016

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $43.9 million in 2017, due to improved operating results.



Net Cash Used in Investing Activities



2018 compared to 2017

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by$32.8 millionin2018, mostly due to a $26.1 million decrease in capital spending due to the completion of several major projects in 2017, including certain components of our new facility in Waterford, Ireland.



2017 compared to 2016

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $42.2 million in 2017, mostly due to a $39.4 million decrease in capital spending due to the completion of several major projects, including certain components of our new facility in Waterford, Ireland.



Net Cash Used in Financing Activities



2018 compared to 2017

Net cash used in financing activities decreased by$28.3 millionin2018, primarily due to lower debt repayment activity in 2018.



2017 compared to 2016

Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $4.9 million in 2017, due to a decrease in net debt repayments, partially offset by an increase in purchases under our share repurchase programs.



We paid cash dividends totaling$42.1 million($0.57 per share),$39.1 million($0.53 per share), and$35.8 million($0.49 per share) during2018,2017, and2016, respectively.












Liquidity and Capital Resources



The table below presents selected liquidity and capital measures as of:

($ in millions)December 31, 2018December 31, 2017Cash and cash equivalents$337.4$235.9Working capital$610.7$464.0Total debt$196.1$197.0Total equity$1,396.3$1,279.9Net debt-to-total invested capitalN/AN/A



Cash and cash equivalents include all instruments that have maturities of ninety days or less when purchased. Working capital is defined as current assets less current liabilities. Net debt is defined as total debt less cash and cash equivalents, and total invested capital is defined as the sum of net debt and total equity. Net debt and total invested capital are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures that should not be used as a substitute for the comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. The non-U.S. GAAP financial measures are incorporated into our discussion and analysis as management believes that this information provides users with a valuable insight into our overall performance and financial position.



Cash and cash equivalents –

Our cash and cash equivalents balance at

December 31, 2018

consisted of cash held in depository accounts with banks around the world and cash invested in high-quality, short-term investments.  The cash and cash equivalents balance at

December 31, 2018

included $174.6 million of cash held by subsidiaries within the U.S., and $162.8 million of cash held by subsidiaries outside of the U.S. In response to the 2017 Tax Act, we reevaluated our position regarding permanent reinvestment of foreign subsidiary earnings and profits through 2017 (with the exception of China and Mexico) and decided that those profits were no longer permanently reinvested. As of January 1, 2018, we reasserted indefinite reinvestment related to all post-2017 unremitted earnings in all of our foreign subsidiaries. In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and repatriate earnings only when the tax impact is de minimis, and that position has not changed subsequent to the one-time transition tax under the 2017 Tax Act, except as noted above. Accordingly, no deferred taxes have been provided for withholding taxes or other taxes that would result upon repatriation of approximately

$79.7 million

of undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the U.S., as those earnings continue to be permanently reinvested. Further, it is impracticable for us to estimate any future tax costs for any unrecognized deferred tax liabilities associated with our indefinite reinvestment assertion, because the actual tax liability, if any, would be dependent on complex analysis and calculations considering various tax laws, exchange rates, circumstances existing when there is a repatriation, sale, or liquidation, or other factors.



Working capital -Working capital atDecember 31, 2018increasedby$146.7 million, or31.6%, as compared toDecember 31, 2017, including a decrease of $16.5 million due to foreign currency translation. Excluding the impact of currency exchange rates, cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, inventories, and total current liabilities increased by $107.1 million, $43.8 million, $7.0 million, and $11.3 million, respectively. The increase in accounts receivable was due to increased sales activity, longer customer payment terms, and our adoption of the new revenue recognition guidance. The increase in current liabilities was due to an increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits.



Debt and credit facilities -The $0.9 million decrease in total debt atDecember 31, 2018, as compared toDecember 31, 2017, primarily resulted from foreign currency rate fluctuations.



Our sources of liquidity include our Credit Facility. At December 31, 2018, we had$28.6 millionin outstanding long-term borrowings under this facility, of which$4.6 millionwas denominated in Yen and$24.0 millionwas denominated in Euro. These borrowings, together with outstanding letters of credit of$2.5 million, resulted in a borrowing capacity available under our Credit Facility of$268.9 millionat December 31, 2018. We do not expect










any significant limitations on our ability to access this source of funds. Please refer to Note 9,Debt, for further discussion of our Credit Facility.



Pursuant to the financial covenants in our debt agreements, we are required to maintain established interest coverage ratios and to not exceed established leverage ratios. In addition, the agreements contain other customary covenants, none of which we consider restrictive to our operations. AtDecember 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants, and we expect to continue to be in compliance with the terms of these agreements throughout 2019.



We believe that cash on hand and cash generated from operations, together with availability under our Credit Facility, will be adequate to address our foreseeable liquidity needs based on our current expectations of our business operations, capital expenditures and scheduled payments of debt obligations.



Commitments and Contractual Obligations



The following table summarizes our commitments and contractual obligations atDecember 31, 2018. These obligations are not expected to have a material impact on liquidity.

Payments Due By Period($ in millions)TotalLess than 1 year1 - 3 years3 - 5 yearsMore than 5 yearsPurchase obligations(1)$72.7$14.0$18.7$18.5$21.5Debt (excluding unamortized debt issuance costs)196.70.128.642.0126.0Interest on debt and interest rate swaps(2)42.06.813.210.711.3Operating lease obligations81.513.018.312.437.8Other long-term liabilities(3)3.30.40.80.91.2Total contractual obligations(4)$396.2$34.3$79.6$84.5$197.8



(1)Our business creates a need to enter into various commitments with suppliers. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, these purchase obligations are not reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. These purchase commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business.



(2)For fixed-rate long-term debt, interest was based on principal amounts and fixed coupon rates at year-end. Future interest payments on variable-rate debt were calculated using principal amounts and the applicable ending interest rate at year-end. Interest on fixed-rate derivative instruments was based on notional amounts and fixed interest rates contractually obligated at year-end.



(3)Represents acquisition-related contingencies. In connection with certain business acquisitions, we agreed to make payments to the sellers if and when certain operating milestones are achieved, such as sales and operating income targets.



(4)This table does not include obligations pertaining to pension and postretirement benefits because the actual amount and timing of future contributions may vary significantly depending upon plan asset performance, benefit payments, and other factors. Contributions to our plans are expected to be $3.9 million in 2019. Please refer to Note 14,Benefit Plans, for estimated benefit payments over the next ten years.



Reserves for uncertain tax positions- The table above does not include $3.9 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefits as ofDecember 31, 2018. Due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential cash flows, we cannot reasonably estimate the settlement periods for amounts which may be paid.



Letters of credit- We have letters of credit totaling$2.5 millionsupporting the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on our behalf by insurance carriers. Our accrual for insurance obligations was










$3.4 millionatDecember 31, 2018, of which$0.9 millionis in excess of our deductible and, therefore, is reimbursable by the insurance company.



OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS



AtDecember 31, 2018, we had no off-balance sheet financing arrangements other than operating leases, unconditional purchase obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, and outstanding letters of credit related to various insurance programs.



CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES



Management’s discussion and analysis addresses consolidated financial statements that are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The application of these principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions, some of which are subjective and complex, that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We believe the following accounting policies and estimates are critical to understanding and evaluating our results of operations and financial position:



Revenue Recognition:Our revenue results from the sale of goods or services and reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We record revenue based on a five-step model, in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 606 (“ASC 606”). Following the identification of a contract with a customer, we identify the performance obligations (goods or services) in the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and recognize the revenue when (or as) we satisfy the performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services to our customers. A good or service is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that good or service.



We recognize the majority of our revenue, primarily relating to Proprietary Products product sales, at a point in time, following the transfer of control of our products to our customers, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the related agreements.



We recognize revenue relating to our Contract-Manufactured Products product sales and certain Proprietary Products product sales over time, as our performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to us and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.



We recognize revenue relating to our development and tooling agreements over time, as our performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced.



For revenue recognized over time, revenue is recognized by applying a method of measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the related performance obligation. When selecting the method for measuring progress, we select the method that best depicts the transfer of control of goods or services promised to our customers.



Revenue for our Contract-Manufactured Products product sales, certain Proprietary Products product sales, and our development and tooling agreements is recorded under an input method, which recognizes revenue on the basis of our efforts or inputs to the satisfaction of a performance obligation (for example, resources consumed, labor hours expended, costs incurred, time elapsed, or machine hours used) relative to the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation. The input method that we use is based on costs incurred.



The majority of the performance obligations within our contracts are satisfied within one year or less. Performance obligations satisfied beyond one year include those relating to a nonrefundable customer payment of$20.0 millionreceived in June 2013 in return for the exclusive use of the SmartDose®technology platform within a specific therapeutic area. As ofDecember 31, 2018, there was$6.5 millionof unearned income related to this payment, of which$0.9 millionwas included in other current liabilities and$5.6 millionwas included in other long-term liabilities. The unearned income is being recognized as income on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the agreement. The agreement does not include a future minimum purchase commitment from the customer.










Our revenue can be generated from contracts with multiple performance obligations. When a sales agreement involves multiple performance obligations, each obligation is separately identified and the transaction price is allocated based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised good or service to the customer.



Some customers receive pricing rebates upon attaining established sales volumes. We record rebate costs when sales occur based on our assessment of the likelihood that the required volumes will be attained. We also maintain an allowance for product returns, as we believe that we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of returns based on our substantial historical experience.



Contract assets or liabilities result from transactions with revenue recorded over time. If the measure of remaining rights exceeds the measure of the remaining performance obligations, we record a contract asset. Contract assets are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in accounts receivable, net, and other assets (current and noncurrent portions, respectively). Contract assets included in accounts receivable, net, relate to the unbilled amounts of our product sales for which we have recognized revenue over time. Contract assets included in other assets represent the remaining performance obligations of our development and tooling agreements. Conversely, if the measure of the remaining performance obligations exceeds the measure of the remaining rights, we record a contract liability. Contract liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in other liabilities (current and noncurrent portions, respectively) and represent cash payments received in advance of our performance.



Impairment of Long-Lived Assets:Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, are tested for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset is considered impaired if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the sum of the future expected undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. Once an asset is considered impaired, an impairment loss is recorded within other (income) expense for the difference between the asset’s carrying value and its fair value. For assets held and used in the business, management determines fair value using estimated future cash flows to be derived from the asset, discounted to a net present value using an appropriate discount rate. For assets held for sale or for investment purposes, management determines fair value by estimating the proceeds to be received upon sale of the asset, less disposition costs. During 2018, as part of our 2018 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a $2.2 million non-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a $4.5 million non-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment.



Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:










units was less than its carrying amount and determined that it was not necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment tests in 2017 and 2018.



At December 31, 2015, a trademark had been determined to have an indefinite life and, therefore, was not subject to amortization. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a $10.0 million non-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of this trademark.



Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, and reviewed for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a $2.8 million non-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of a patent.



Employee Benefits:

We maintain funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. and a number of other countries that cover employees who meet eligibility requirements. In addition, we sponsor postretirement benefit plans which provide healthcare benefits for eligible employees who retire or become disabled. The measurement of annual cost and obligations under these defined benefit postretirement plans is subject to a number of assumptions, which are specific for each of our U.S. and foreign plans. The assumptions, which are reviewed at least annually, are relevant to both the plan assets (where applicable) and the obligation for benefits that will ultimately be provided to our employees. Two of the most critical assumptions in determining pension and retiree medical plan expense are the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Other assumptions reflect demographic factors such as retirement age, rates of compensation increases, mortality and turnover and are evaluated periodically and updated to reflect our actual experience. For our funded plans, we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our plan assets, as well as historical and expected rates of return, in estimating the long-term rate of return on plan assets. Under U.S. GAAP, differences between actual and expected results are generally accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss) as actuarial gains or losses and subsequently amortized into earnings over future periods.



Changes in key assumptions could have a material impact on our future results of operations and financial position. We estimate that every 25-basis point reduction in our long-term rate of return assumption would increase pension expense by $0.5 million, and every 25-basis point reduction in our discount rate would increase pension expense by $0.5 million. A decrease in the discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations. Our net pension underfunded balance atDecember 31, 2018was $52.5 million, compared to $48.5 million atDecember 31, 2017.  Our underfunded balance for other postretirement benefits was $6.0 million atDecember 31, 2018, compared to $7.1 million atDecember 31, 2017.



Income Taxes:We estimate income taxes payable based upon current domestic and international tax legislation. In addition, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are established to recognize differences between the tax basis and financial statement carrying values of assets and liabilities. We maintain valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The recoverability of tax assets is subject to our estimates of future profitability, generally at the respective subsidiary company and country level. Changes in tax legislation, business plans and other factors may affect the ultimate recoverability of tax assets or final tax payments, which could result in adjustments to tax expense in the period such change is determined.



When accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in our financial statements, we apply a more-likely-than-not threshold for financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.



Please refer to Note 1,Summary of Significant Accounting Policiesand Note 2,New Accounting Standards, to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our significant accounting policies, recently adopted accounting standards, and accounting standards issued but not yet adopted.














ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK



Our ongoing business operations expose us to various risks, such as fluctuating interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and increasing commodity prices. These risk factors can impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. To manage these market risks, we periodically enter into derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, options and foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with, and for notional amounts equal to or less than, the underlying exposures. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for investment or trading purposes.



Foreign Currency Exchange Risk



Sales outside of the U.S. accounted for55.4%of our consolidated net sales in2018. Virtually all of these sales and related operating costs are denominated in the currency of the local country and translated into USD for consolidated reporting purposes. Although the majority of the assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary, they may also hold assets or liabilities denominated in other currencies. These items may give rise to foreign currency transaction gains and losses. As a result, our results of operations and financial position are exposed to changing currency exchange rates. We periodically use forward exchange contracts to hedge certain transactions or to manage month-end balance sheet exposures on cross-currency intercompany loans.



We have designated our€21.0 millionEuro-denominated borrowings under our Credit Facility as a hedge of our net investment in certain European subsidiaries. We also have¥500.0 millionin Yen-denominated borrowings under our Credit Facility, which has been designated as a hedge of our net investment in Daikyo. AtDecember 31, 2018, a cumulative foreign currency translation loss on these hedges of$0.4 million(net of tax of$0.2 million) was recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss.



Interest Rate Risk



As a result of our normal borrowing activities, we have long-term debt with both fixed and variable interest rates. Long-term debt consists of senior notes and revolving credit facilities. Our exposures to fluctuations in interest rates are managed to the extent considered necessary by entering into interest rate swap agreements.



The following table summarizes our interest rate risk-sensitive instruments (excluding unamortized debt issuance cost):

($ in millions)20192020202120222023ThereafterCarrying ValueFair ValueCurrent Debt:U.S. dollar denominated$0.1$0.1$0.1Average interest rate - variableLong-Term Debt:U.S. dollar denominated42.0126.0168.0164.6Average interest rate - fixed3.7%3.9%Euro denominated24.024.024.0Average interest rate - variable1.0%Yen denominated4.64.64.6Average interest rate - variable1.0%



Commodity Price Risk



Many of our proprietary products are made from synthetic elastomers, which are derived from the petroleum refining process. We purchase the majority of our elastomers via long-term supply contracts, some of which contain clauses that provide for surcharges related to fluctuations in crude oil prices. In recent years, raw material costs have










fluctuated due to crude oil price fluctuations. We expect this volatility to continue. We will continue to pursue pricing and hedging strategies, and ongoing cost control initiatives, to offset the effects on gross profit.



In November 2016, we purchased a series of call options for a total of96,525barrels of crude oil to mitigate our exposure to such oil-based surcharges and protect operating cash flows with regards to a portion of our forecasted elastomer purchases through November 2017. In November 2017, we purchased a series of call options for a total of125,166barrels of crude oil through May 2019. In April 2018, we purchased a series of call options for a total of30,612barrels of crude oil from December 2018 through August 2019.



During 2018, the gain recorded in cost of goods and services sold related to these options was$0.1 million. During 2017, the loss recorded in cost of goods and services sold related to these options was$0.3 million.



As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding contracts to purchase47,445barrels of crude oil from January 2019 to August 2019 at a weighted-average strike price of$76.45per barrel.












ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA





CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

(in millions, except per share data)





201820172016Net sales$1,717.4$1,599.1$1,509.1Cost of goods and services sold1,172.01,086.21,007.7Gross profit545.4512.9501.4Research and development40.339.136.8Selling, general and administrative expenses262.9246.0239.6Other expense (Note 15)1.92.029.8Operating profit240.3225.8195.2Interest expense8.47.88.1Interest income(2.1)(1.3)(1.1)Other nonoperating income(6.7)(3.1)(1.6)Income before income taxes240.7222.4189.8Income tax expense41.480.954.4Equity in net income of affiliated companies(7.6)(9.2)(8.2)Net income$206.9$150.7$143.6Net income per share:Basic$2.80$2.04$1.96Diluted$2.74$1.99$1.91Weighted average shares outstanding:Basic73.973.973.3Diluted75.475.875.0Dividends declared per share$0.58$0.54$0.50



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.












CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

(in millions)



201820172016Net income$206.9$150.7$143.6Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax:Foreign currency translation adjustments(39.2)68.8(18.1)Defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans:Prior service (cost) credit arising during period, net of tax of $0, $0 and $1.1(0.3)—1.9Net actuarial (loss) gain arising during period, net of tax of $(0.2), $1.3 and $(4.8)(0.7)6.3(11.1)Settlement effects arising during period, net of tax of $1.1——2.0Less: amortization of actuarial loss, net of tax of $0.3, $0.5 and $1.21.13.62.2Less: amortization of prior service credit, net of tax of $(0.5), $(0.5) and $(0.5)(1.5)(3.5)(0.9)Less: amortization of transition obligation——0.1Net loss on investment securities, net of tax of $(0.1), $(2.5) and $(0.1)(0.1)(4.7)(0.2)Net gain (loss) on derivatives, net of tax of $1.5, $(0.1) and $0.13.8(1.0)(0.1)Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax(36.9)69.5(24.2)Comprehensive income$170.0$220.2$119.4



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.












CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries atDecember 31, 2018and2017

(in millions, except per share data)






ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents$337.4$235.9

Accounts receivable, net288.2253.2

Inventories214.5215.2

Other current assets54.339.2

Total current assets894.4743.5

Property, plant and equipment1,752.71,745.8

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization930.7890.8

Property, plant and equipment, net822.0855.0

Investments in affiliated companies91.285.8

Goodwill105.8107.7

Deferred income taxes24.725.7

Intangible assets, net20.321.7

Other noncurrent assets20.523.4

Total Assets$1,978.9$1,862.8



LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Notes payable and other current debt$0.1$—

Accounts payable130.4138.1

Pension and other postretirement benefits2.32.2

Accrued salaries, wages and benefits64.556.2

Income taxes payable9.86.0

Other current liabilities76.677.0

Total current liabilities283.7279.5

Long-term debt196.0197.0

Deferred income taxes13.110.4

Pension and other postretirement benefits56.253.4

Other long-term liabilities33.642.6

Total Liabilities582.6582.9



Commitments and contingencies (Note 17)



Equity:

Preferred stock, 3.0 million shares authorized; 0 shares issued and outstanding in 2018 and 2017——

Common stock, par value $.25 per share; 100.0 million shares authorized; shares issued: 75.3 million and 75.2 million in 2018 and 2017; shares outstanding: 74.1 million and 73.9 million in 2018 and 201718.818.8

Capital in excess of par value282.0309.3

Retained earnings1,353.41,178.2

Accumulated other comprehensive loss(154.2)(117.3)

Treasury stock, at cost (1.2 million and 1.3 million shares in 2018 and 2017)(103.7)(109.1)

Total Equity1,396.31,279.9

Total Liabilities and Equity$1,978.9$1,862.8



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.












CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EQUITY

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

(in millions)





Common Shares IssuedCommon StockCapital in Excess of Par ValueNumber of Treasury SharesTreasury StockRetained earningsAccumulated other comprehensive lossTotal

Balance, December 31, 201572.4$18.1$207.80.1$(4.0)$964.6$(162.6)$1,023.9

Net income—————143.6—143.6

Stock-based compensation——17.1—0.2——17.3

Shares issued under stock plans1.40.321.0—9.9——31.2

Share purchased under share repurchase program———0.5(52.2)——(52.2)

Shares repurchased for employee tax withholdings(0.1)—(3.7)————(3.7)

Excess tax benefits from employee stock plans——18.2————18.2

Dividends declared—————(36.6)—(36.6)

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax——————(24.2)(24.2)

Balance, December 31, 201673.718.4260.40.6(46.1)1,071.6(186.8)1,117.5

Effect of modified retrospective application of a new accounting standard—————(4.1)—(4.1)

Net income—————150.7—150.7

Stock-based compensation——6.5—7.5——14.0

Shares issued under stock plans1.50.438.0(0.1)7.3——45.7

Share purchased under share repurchase program———0.8(74.4)——(74.4)

Shares repurchased for employee tax withholdings——(0.4)—(3.4)——(3.8)

Dividends declared—————(40.0)—(40.0)

Other adjustments to capital in excess of par value——4.8————4.8

Other comprehensive income, net of tax——————69.569.5

Balance, December 31, 201775.218.8309.31.3(109.1)1,178.2(117.3)1,279.9

Effect of modified retrospective application of a new accounting standard (see Note 3)—————11.4—11.4

Net income—————206.9—206.9

Stock-based compensation——7.3—9.2——16.5

Shares issued under stock plans0.1—(34.8)(0.9)71.6——36.8

Shares purchased under share repurchase program———0.8(70.8)——(70.8)

Shares repurchased for employee tax withholdings——0.2—(4.6)——(4.4)

Dividends declared—————(43.1)—(43.1)

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax——————(36.9)(36.9)

Balance, December 31, 201875.3$18.8$282.01.2$(103.7)$1,353.4$(154.2)$1,396.3

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.












CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

(in millions)






Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income$206.9$150.7$143.6

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation101.794.388.1

Amortization2.72.42.6

Stock-based compensation15.116.119.5

Non-cash restructuring charges2.20.717.5

Pension curtailment gain——(2.1)

Venezuela deconsolidation—11.1—

Contingent consideration payments in excess of acquisition-date liability(0.6)——

Loss on sales of equipment1.81.60.7

Deferred income taxes0.941.721.5

Pension and other retirement plans, net(7.9)(6.9)(6.5)

Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates, net of dividends(5.9)(7.0)(6.8)

Changes in assets and liabilities:

Increase in accounts receivable(43.8)(39.7)(23.3)

Increase in inventories(7.0)(3.6)(21.2)

(Increase) decrease in other current assets(6.2)0.3(2.4)

Increase in accounts payable0.412.66.1

Changes in other assets and liabilities28.3(11.0)(17.9)

Net cash provided by operating activities288.6263.3219.4

Cash flows from investing activities:

Capital expenditures(104.7)(130.8)(170.2)

Purchase of investment in affiliated companies——(8.4)

Cash related to deconsolidated Venezuelan subsidiary—(6.0)—

Other, net3.93.22.8

Net cash used in investing activities(100.8)(133.6)(175.8)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Repayments of long-term debt(0.1)(34.9)(69.8)

Dividend payments(42.1)(39.1)(35.8)

Contingent consideration payments up to amount of acquisition-date liability—(0.7)(0.3)

Proceeds from exercise of stock options and stock appreciation rights31.839.525.9

Employee stock purchase plan contributions4.94.43.8

Excess tax benefits from employee stock plans——18.2

Shares purchased under share repurchase programs(70.8)(74.4)(52.2)

Shares repurchased for employee tax withholdings(4.4)(3.8)(3.7)

Net cash used in financing activities(80.7)(109.0)(113.9)

Effect of exchange rates on cash(5.6)12.2(1.3)

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents101.532.9(71.6)

Cash, including cash equivalents at beginning of period235.9203.0274.6

Cash, including cash equivalents at end of period$337.4$235.9$203.0



Supplemental cash flow information:

Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized$8.4$8.0$8.6

Income taxes paid, net$42.0$31.0$48.1

Accrued capital expenditures$15.0$20.1$22.7

Dividends declared, not paid$11.3$10.4$9.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.












NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





Note 1:  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies



Principles of Consolidation:The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of West after the elimination of intercompany transactions. We have no participation or other rights in variable interest entities. As of April 1, 2017, our consolidated financial statements exclude the results of our Venezuelan subsidiary. Please refer to Note 15,Other Expense, for further discussion.



Use of Estimates:The financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingencies in the financial statements. Actual amounts realized may differ from these estimates.



Cash and Cash Equivalents:Cash equivalents include time deposits, certificates of deposit and all highly liquid debt instruments with maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase.



Accounts Receivable:Our accounts receivable balance was net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of$2.0 millionand$0.5 millionatDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively. We record the allowance based on a specific identification methodology.



Inventories:Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (on a first-in, first-out basis) and net realizable value. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31:

($ in millions)20182017Raw materials$90.4$88.6Work in process42.231.8Finished goods81.994.8$214.5$215.2



Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost. Maintenance and minor repairs and renewals are charged to expense as incurred. Costs incurred for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized for application development activities and immediately expensed for preliminary project activities or post-implementation activities. Upon sale or retirement of depreciable assets, costs and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated, and gains or losses are recognized in other (income) expense. Depreciation and amortization are computed principally using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, or the remaining term of the lease, if shorter.



Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment, are tested for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. An asset is considered impaired if the carrying value of the asset exceeds the sum of the future expected undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset. Once an asset is considered impaired, an impairment loss is recorded within other (income) expense for the difference between the asset’s carrying value and its fair value. For assets held and used in the business, management determines fair value using estimated future cash flows to be derived from the asset, discounted to a net present value using an appropriate discount rate. For assets held for sale or for investment purposes, management determines fair value by estimating the proceeds to be received upon sale of the asset, less disposition costs. During 2018, as part of our 2018 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$2.2 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$4.5 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment.



Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least annually, following the completion of our annual budget and long-range planning process, or












At December 31, 2015, a trademark had been determined to have an indefinite life and, therefore, was not subject to amortization. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$10.0 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of this trademark.



Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of5to25years, and reviewed for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$2.8 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of a patent.



Employee Benefits:The measurement of the obligations under our defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans are subject to a number of assumptions. These include the rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans) and the rate at which the future obligations are discounted to present value. For our funded plans, we consider the current and expected asset allocations of our plan assets, as well as historical and expected rates of return, in estimating the long-term rate of return on plan assets. U.S. GAAP requires the recognition of an asset or liability for the funded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, as measured by the difference between the fair value of plan assets, if any, and the benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation; for any other postretirement plan, such as a retiree health plan, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. Please refer to Note 14,Benefit Plans, for a more detailed discussion of our pension and other retirement plans.



Financial Instruments: All derivatives are recognized as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and recorded at their fair value. For a derivative designated as hedging the exposure to variable cash flows of a forecasted transaction (referred to as a cash flow hedge), the effective portion of the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income (“OCI”), net of tax, and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. For a derivative designated as hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or a firm commitment (referred to as a fair value hedge), the derivative’s gain or loss is recognized in earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item. For a derivative designated as hedging the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation, the gain or loss is reported in OCI, net of tax, as part of the cumulative translation adjustment. The ineffective portion of any derivative used in a hedging transaction is recognized immediately into earnings. Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedges are also recorded at fair value, with the change in fair value recognized immediately into earnings. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instrument for investment or trading purposes.



Foreign Currency Translation: Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recognized in the determination of net income. Foreign currency translation adjustments of subsidiaries and affiliates operating outside of the U.S. are accumulated in other comprehensive loss, a separate component of equity.












Revenue Recognition:Our revenue results from the sale of goods or services and reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recognized based on a five-step model, in accordance with ASC 606. Following the identification of a contract with a customer, we identify the performance obligations (goods or services) in the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and recognize the revenue when (or as) we satisfy the performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services to our customers. A good or service is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that good or service. Some customers receive pricing rebates upon attaining established sales volumes. We record rebate costs when sales occur based on our assessment of the likelihood that the required volumes will be attained. We also maintain an allowance for product returns, as we believe that we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of returns based on our substantial historical experience. Please refer to Note 3,Revenue, for additional information.



Shipping and Handling Costs: Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of goods and services sold. Shipping and handling costs billed to customers in connection with the sale are included in net sales.



Research and Development: Research and development expenditures are for the creation, engineering and application of new or improved products and processes. Expenditures include primarily salaries and outside services for those directly involved in research and development activities and are expensed as incurred.



Environmental Remediation and Compliance Costs: Environmental remediation costs are accrued when such costs are probable and reasonable estimates are determinable. Cost estimates include investigation, cleanup and monitoring activities; such estimates are adjusted, if necessary, based on additional findings. Environmental compliance costs are expensed as incurred as part of normal operations.



Litigation: From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, investigations and claims generally incidental to our normal business activities. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we accrue for loss contingencies when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are based on an analysis made by internal and external legal counsel considering information known at the time. Legal costs in connection with loss contingencies are expensed as incurred.



Income Taxes:Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates, applicable to future years, to temporary differences between the tax basis and financial statement carrying values of our assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In response to the 2017 Tax Act, we reevaluated our position regarding permanent reinvestment of foreign subsidiary earnings and profits through 2017 (with the exception of China and Mexico) and decided that those profits were no longer permanently reinvested. As of January 1, 2018, we reasserted indefinite reinvestment related to all post-2017 unremitted earnings in all of our foreign subsidiaries. Please refer to Note 16,Income Taxes, for additional information. We recognize interest costs related to income taxes in interest expense and penalties within other (income) expense. The tax law ordering approach is used for purposes of determining whether an excess tax benefit has been realized during the year.



Stock-Based Compensation: Under the fair value provisions of U.S. GAAP, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the value of the award and is recognized as expense over the vesting period. In order to determine the fair value of stock options on the grant date, we use the Black-Scholes valuation model.



Net Income Per Share: Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during each period. Net income per share assuming dilution considers the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and other stock awards based on the treasury stock method. The treasury stock method assumes the use of exercise proceeds to repurchase common stock at the average fair market value in the period.














Note 2:  New Accounting Standards



Recently Adopted Standards



In March 2018, the FASB issued guidance which updates the income tax accounting in U.S. GAAP to reflect the SEC’s interpretive guidance released on December 22, 2017, when the 2017 Tax Act was signed into law. This guidance was effective immediately upon issuance. Please refer to Note 16,Income Taxes, for additional information.



In May 2017, the FASB issued guidance which amends the scope of modification accounting for share-based payment arrangements. The guidance focuses on changes to the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards that would require the application of modification accounting and specifies that an entity would not apply modification accounting if its fair value, vesting conditions and classification of the awards are the same immediately before and after the modification. This guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption was permitted. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a prospective basis. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In March 2017, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost (net benefit cost). The guidance requires the bifurcation of net benefit cost. The service cost component will be presented with other employee compensation costs in operating income (or capitalized in assets) and the other components will be reported separately outside of operations, and will not be eligible for capitalization. This guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption was permitted. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis. As a result of this adoption, we reclassified net benefit cost components other than service cost from operating income to outside of operations. Net periodic benefit cost for the year endedDecember 31, 2018and2017was$4.1 millionand$7.3 million, respectively, of which$10.8 millionand$10.4 million, respectively, related to service cost and$6.7 millionand$3.1 million, respectively, related to net benefit cost components other than service cost. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on net income.



In November 2016, the FASB issued guidance on the classification and presentation of restricted cash in the statement of cash flows. This guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption was permitted. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis. As ofDecember 31, 2018and2017, we hadnorestricted cash.



In August 2016, the FASB issued guidance to reduce the diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows. This guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption was permitted. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance that addresses certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. This guidance was effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a prospective basis. The adoption did not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In May 2014, the FASB issued guidance on the accounting for revenue from contracts with customers, ASC 606, that supersedes most existing revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The core principle requires an entity to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, ASC 606 requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. The FASB subsequently issued additional clarifying standards to address issues arising from implementation of ASC 606. We adopted ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018, on a modified retrospective basis. Please refer to Note 3,Revenue, for additional information.












Standards Issued Not Yet Adopted



In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance to align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by this update. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in any interim period. We are currently evaluating our adoption timing and the impact that this guidance may have on our financial statements.



In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance which modifies the disclosure requirements for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement plans. The guidance removes disclosures that no longer are considered cost beneficial, clarifies the specific requirements of disclosures, and adds disclosure requirements identified as relevant. This guidance is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We believe that the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In August 2018, the FASB issued guidance which modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements by removing, modifying, or adding certain disclosures. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We believe that the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In June 2018, the FASB issued guidance which expands the scope of accounting for share-based payment arrangements to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption was permitted. We believe that the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In February 2018, the FASB issued guidance to address a specific consequence of the 2017 Tax Act by allowing a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the 2017 Tax Act’s reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption was permitted. We are currently evaluating our adoption timing and the impact that this guidance may have on our financial statements.



In August 2017, the FASB issued guidance which expands and refines hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and aligns the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption was permitted. We believe that the adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements.



In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance on the accounting for leases. This guidance requires lessees to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and to expand disclosures about leasing arrangements, both qualitative and quantitative. In terms of transition, the guidance requires adoption based upon a modified retrospective approach. This guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2018. We continue to review the impact that the adoption of this guidance will have on our financial statement disclosures, accounting policies, business processes, and internal controls. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases were$81.5 millionand$79.1 million, respectively.














Note 3:  Revenue



Adoption of ASC 606

On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606, on a modified retrospective basis, applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. As a result of our adoption, we recorded a cumulative-effect adjustment of$11.4 millionwithin retained earnings in our consolidated balance sheet as of January 1, 2018, to reflect a change in the timing of revenue recognition under ASC 606, from point in time to over time, on our Contract-Manufactured Products product sales, certain Proprietary Products product sales, development and tooling agreements, as well as an acceleration on a portion of the remaining unearned income from a nonrefundable customer payment.

Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods.

The cumulative effect of the changes made to our consolidated January 1, 2018 balance sheet for the adoption of ASC 606 was as follows:

($ in millions)Balance at December 31, 2017Adjustments Due to ASC 606Balance at         January 1, 2018Assets:Accounts receivable, net$253.2$25.0$278.2Inventories215.2(20.8)194.4Other current assets39.2(8.4)30.8Liabilities and Equity:Other current liabilities$77.0$(13.7)$63.3Deferred income taxes10.43.013.4Other long-term liabilities42.6(4.9)37.7Retained earnings1,178.211.41,189.6

The impact of the adoption of ASC 606 on our consolidated income statement for2018was as follows:

($ in millions)As ReportedBalances without Adoption of        ASC 606Effects of Change (Lower)/HigherNet sales$1,717.4$1,720.9$(3.5)Cost of goods and services sold1,172.01,172.0—Other expense1.91.20.7Income tax expense41.442.6(1.2)Net income$206.9$209.9$(3.0)










The impact of the adoption of ASC 606 on our consolidated balance sheet as ofDecember 31, 2018was as follows:

($ in millions)As ReportedBalances without Adoption of         ASC 606Effects of Change Higher/(Lower)Assets:Accounts receivable, net$288.2$264.3$23.9Inventories214.5234.4(19.9)Other current assets54.363.4(9.1)Liabilities and Equity:Other current liabilities$76.6$87.7$(11.1)Deferred income taxes13.111.31.8Other long-term liabilities33.637.8(4.2)Retained earnings1,353.41,345.08.4

Revenue Recognition

Our revenue results from the sale of goods or services and reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We record revenue based on a five-step model, in accordance with ASC 606. Following the identification of a contract with a customer, we identify the performance obligations (goods or services) in the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and recognize the revenue when (or as) we satisfy the performance obligations by transferring the promised goods or services to our customers. A good or service is transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that good or service.

We recognize the majority of our revenue, primarily relating to Proprietary Products product sales, at a point in time, following the transfer of control of our products to our customers, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery, depending on the terms of the related agreements.

We recognize revenue relating to our Contract-Manufactured Products product sales and certain Proprietary Products product sales over time, as our performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to us and we have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.

We recognize revenue relating to our development and tooling agreements over time, as our performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced.

For revenue recognized over time, revenue is recognized by applying a method of measuring progress toward complete satisfaction of the related performance obligation. When selecting the method for measuring progress, we select the method that best depicts the transfer of control of goods or services promised to our customers.

Revenue for our Contract-Manufactured Products product sales, certain Proprietary Products product sales, and our development and tooling agreements is recorded under an input method, which recognizes revenue on the basis of our efforts or inputs to the satisfaction of a performance obligation (for example, resources consumed, labor hours expended, costs incurred, time elapsed, or machine hours used) relative to the total expected inputs to the satisfaction of that performance obligation. The input method that we use is based on costs incurred.

The majority of the performance obligations within our contracts are satisfied within one year or less. Performance obligations satisfied beyond one year include those relating to a nonrefundable customer payment of$20.0 millionreceived in June 2013 in return for the exclusive use of the SmartDose technology platform within a specific therapeutic area. As ofDecember 31, 2018, there was$6.5 millionof unearned income related to this payment, of which$0.9 millionwas included in other current liabilities and$5.6 millionwas included in other long-term










liabilities. The unearned income is being recognized as income on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the agreement. The agreement does not include a future minimum purchase commitment from the customer.

Our revenue can be generated from contracts with multiple performance obligations. When a sales agreement involves multiple performance obligations, each obligation is separately identified and the transaction price is allocated based on the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring the promised good or service to the customer.

Some customers receive pricing rebates upon attaining established sales volumes. We record rebate costs when sales occur based on our assessment of the likelihood that the required volumes will be attained. We also maintain an allowance for product returns, as we believe that we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of returns based on our substantial historical experience.

The following table presents the approximate percentage of our net sales by market group:20182017(1)Biologics21%23%Generics21%20%Pharma34%34%Contract-Manufactured Products24%23%100%100%(1) As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.

The following table presents the approximate percentage of our net sales by product category:20182017(1)High-Value Components41%41%Standard Packaging32%32%Delivery Devices3%4%Contract-Manufactured Products24%23%100%100%(1) As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.

The following table presents the approximate percentage of our net sales by geographic location:20182017(1)Americas48%51%Europe, Middle East, Africa44%42%Asia Pacific8%7%100%100%(1) As noted above, prior period amounts have not been adjusted under the modified retrospective method.

Contract Assets and Liabilities

Contract assets or liabilities result from transactions with revenue recorded over time. If the measure of remaining rights exceeds the measure of the remaining performance obligations, we record a contract asset. Contract assets are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in accounts receivable, net, and other assets (current and noncurrent portions, respectively). Contract assets included in accounts receivable, net, relate to the unbilled amounts of our product sales for which we have recognized revenue over time. Contract assets included in other assets represent the remaining performance obligations of our development and tooling agreements. Conversely, if the measure of the










remaining performance obligations exceeds the measure of the remaining rights, we record a contract liability. Contract liabilities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet in other liabilities (current and noncurrent portions, respectively) and represent cash payments received in advance of our performance.

The following table summarizes our contract assets and liabilities, excluding contract assets included in accounts receivable, net:($ in millions)Contract assets, December 31, 2017$7.5Contract assets, December 31, 20189.1Change in contract assets - increase (decrease)$1.6Deferred income, December 31, 2017$(33.6)Deferred income, December 31, 2018(33.4)Change in deferred income - decrease (increase)$0.2

The decrease in deferred income during2018was primarily due to the recognition of revenue of$111.1 million, including$28.9 millionof revenue that was included in deferred income at the beginning of the year (of which$18.6 millionwas recognized in the cumulative-effect adjustment as of January 1, 2018), partially offset by additional cash payments of$109.8 millionreceived in advance of satisfying future performance obligations along with$1.1 millionin other adjustments.

Practical Expedients and Exemptions

We have elected to disregard the effects of a significant financing component, as we expect, at the inception of our contracts, that the period between when we transfer a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less.

In addition, we have elected to omit the disclosure of the majority of our remaining performance obligations, which are satisfied within one year or less.

Supply Chain Financing

We have entered into supply chain financing agreements with certain banks, pursuant to which we offer for sale certain accounts receivable to such banks from time to time, subject to the terms of the applicable agreements. These transactions result in a reduction in accounts receivable, as the agreements transfer effective control over, and credit risk related to, the receivables to the banks. These agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility, and we do not retain any interest in the underlying accounts receivable once sold. As ofDecember 31, 2018, we derecognized$5.7 millionof accounts receivable under these agreements. Discount fees related to the sale of such accounts receivable on our consolidated income statement for 2018 were not material.



Voluntary Recall

On January 24, 2019, we issued a voluntary recall of our Vial2Bag product line due to reports of potential unpredictable or variable dosing under certain conditions. Our 2018 results included an$11.3 millionprovision for product returns, recorded as a reduction of sales. Our inventory balance for these devices was$6.5 millionat December 31, 2018, which included estimated in-transit inventory being returned by our customers. We are working to develop the support required to get the products back on the market, and we currently believe the returned inventory will be saleable in 2019.












Note 4:  Net Income Per Share



The following table reconciles the shares used in the calculation of basic net income per share to those used for diluted net income per share:

(in millions)201820172016Net income$206.9$150.7$143.6Weighted average common shares outstanding73.973.973.3Dilutive effect of equity awards, based on the treasury stock method1.51.91.7Weighted average shares assuming dilution75.475.875.0



During2018,2017and2016, there were0.4 million,0.4 million, and0.1 millionshares, respectively, from stock-based compensation plans not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because their impact was antidilutive.



In February 2018, we announced a share repurchase program for calendar-year 2018 authorizing the repurchase of up to800,000shares of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately-negotiated transactions as permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b-18. The number of shares repurchased and the timing of such transactions depended on a variety of factors, including market conditions. During 2018, we purchased800,000shares of our common stock under the program at a cost of$70.8 million, or an average price of$88.51per share. Please refer to Note 19,Subsequent Events, for discussion of our share repurchase program for calendar-year 2019.





Note 5: Property, Plant and Equipment



A summary of gross property, plant and equipment at December 31 is presented in the following table:

($ in millions)Expected useful lives (years)20182017Land$20.9$21.4Buildings and improvements5-50569.1539.2Machinery and equipment10-15806.7793.4Molds and dies4-7115.8114.5Computer hardware and software3-10151.1144.6Construction in progress89.1132.7$1,752.7$1,745.8



Depreciation expense for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016was$101.7 million,$94.3 millionand$88.1 million, respectively.



There werenocapitalized leases included in buildings and improvements and machinery and equipment atDecember 31, 2018and 2017.



We capitalize interest on borrowings during the active construction period of major capital projects. Capitalized interest is added to the cost of the underlying assets and is amortized over the useful lives of the assets. Capitalized interest for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016was$0.9 million,$2.7 millionand$3.6 million, respectively.



During 2018, as part of our 2018 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$2.2 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$4.5 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment.














Note 6: Affiliated Companies



AtDecember 31, 2018, the following affiliated companies were accounted for under the equity method:

LocationOwnership interestThe West Company Mexico, S.A. de C.V.Mexico49%Aluplast S.A. de C.V.Mexico49%Pharma Tap S.A. de C.V.Mexico49%Pharma Rubber S.A. de C.V.Mexico49%DaikyoJapan25%



Unremitted income of affiliated companies included in consolidated retained earnings amounted to$75.8 million,$69.9 millionand$63.0 millionatDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016, respectively. Dividends received from affiliated companies were$1.7 millionin2018,$2.2 millionin2017and$1.4 millionin2016.



Our equity in net unrealized gains of Daikyo’s investment securities and derivative instruments, as well as pension adjustments, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss was$0.4 million,$0.5 millionand$5.3 millionatDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016, respectively.



Our purchases from, and royalty payments made to, affiliates totaled$86.3 million,$86.7 millionand$94.5 million, respectively, in2018,2017and2016, of which$12.9 millionand$12.4 millionwas due and payable as ofDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively. The majority of these transactions related to a distributorship agreement with Daikyo that allows us to purchase and re-sell Daikyo products. Sales to affiliates were$9.6 million,$8.1 millionand$6.8 million, respectively, in2018,2017and2016, of which$1.6 millionand$1.3 millionwas receivable as ofDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively.



AtDecember 31, 2018and2017, the aggregate carrying amount of our investment in affiliated companies that are accounted for under the equity method was$77.8 millionand$72.4 million, respectively. AtDecember 31, 2018and2017, the aggregate carrying amount of our investment in affiliated companies that are not accounted for under the equity method was$13.4 million. We have elected to record these investments, for which fair value was not readily determinable, at cost, less impairment, adjusted for subsequent observable price changes. We test these investments for impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the investments may not be recoverable.





Note 7: Goodwill and Intangible Assets



The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment were as follows:

($ in millions)Proprietary ProductsContract-Manufactured ProductsTotalBalance, December 31, 2016$73.7$29.3$103.0Foreign currency translation3.90.84.7Balance, December 31, 201777.630.1107.7Foreign currency translation(1.6)(0.3)(1.9)Balance, December 31, 2018$76.0$29.8$105.8



As ofDecember 31, 2018, we had no accumulated goodwill impairment losses.












Intangible assets and accumulated amortization as of December 31 were as follows:

20182017($ in millions)CostAccumulated AmortizationNetCostAccumulated AmortizationNetPatents and licensing$19.6$(15.1)$4.5$18.2$(14.1)$4.1Technology3.3(1.2)2.13.3(1.0)2.3Trademarks2.0(1.8)0.22.0(1.7)0.3Customer relationships29.3(20.0)9.329.3(19.1)10.2Customer contracts11.0(6.8)4.211.1(6.3)4.8$65.2$(44.9)$20.3$63.9$(42.2)$21.7



The cost basis of intangible assets includes a foreign currency translationlossof$0.3 millionand a foreign currency translationgainof$0.9 millionfor the years endedDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively. Amortization expense for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016was$2.7 million,$2.4 millionand$2.6 million, respectively. Estimated annual amortization expense for the next five years is as follows:2019-$2.6 million,2020-$2.6 million,2021-$2.1 million,2022-$2.1 millionand2023-$2.1 million. During 2016, as part of our 2016 restructuring plan, we recorded within other expense a$2.8 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of a patent and a$10.0 millionnon-cash asset write-down associated with the discontinued use of an indefinite-lived trademark.





Note 8: Other Current Liabilities



Other current liabilities as of December 31 included the following:

($ in millions)20182017Deferred income$25.5$18.4Other accrued expenses26.227.7Dividends payable11.310.4Restructuring obligations3.32.1Other10.318.4Total other current liabilities$76.6$77.0



Other consisted primarily of value-added taxes payable and accrued taxes other than income.














Note 9:  Debt



The following table summarizes our long-term debt obligations, net of unamortized debt issuance costs and current maturities, at December 31. The interest rates shown in parentheses are as ofDecember 31, 2018.

($ in millions)20182017Note payable, due December 31, 2019$0.1$0.1Credit Facility, due October 15, 2020 (1.00%)28.629.6Series A notes, due July 5, 2022 (3.67%)42.042.0Series B notes, due July 5, 2024 (3.82%)53.053.0Series C notes, due July 5, 2027 (4.02%)73.073.0196.7197.7Less: unamortized debt issuance costs0.60.7Total debt196.1197.0Less: current portion of long-term debt0.1—Long-term debt, net$196.0$197.0



Credit Facility



In October 2015, we entered into the Credit Facility, that replaced our prior revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in April 2017. The Credit Facility, which expires in

October 2020

, contains a

$300.0 million

credit facility, which may be increased from time to time by up to

$100.0 million

in the aggregate, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and upon approval by the banks. Up to

$30.0 million

of the Credit Facility is available for swing-line loans and up to

$30.0 million

is available for the issuance of standby letters of credit. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at either the base rate or at the applicable

LIBOR

rate, plus a tiered margin based on the ratio of our total debt to modified earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, ranging from


to


basis points for base rate loans and


to


basis points for LIBOR rate loans. Consistent with our previous revolving credit facility, the Credit Facility contains representations and covenants that require compliance with, among other restrictions, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. The Credit Facility also contains usual and customary default provisions, and limitations on liens securing indebtedness, asset sales, distributions and acquisitions. As of

December 31, 2018

and 2017, total unamortized debt issuance costs of

$0.6 million

and

$1.0 million

, respectively, were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Credit Facility. A portion of these costs relate to our prior credit facility.



AtDecember 31, 2018, we had$28.6 millionin outstanding long-term borrowings under the Credit Facility, of which$4.6 millionwas denominated in Yen and$24.0 millionin Euro. These borrowings, together with outstanding letters of credit of$2.5 million, resulted in a borrowing capacity available under the Credit Facility of$268.9 millionatDecember 31, 2018. Please refer to Note 10,Derivative Financial Instruments, for a discussion of the foreign currency hedges associated with this facility.



Private Placement



In 2012, we concluded a private placement issuance of$168.0 millionin senior unsecured notes. The total amount of the private placement issuance was divided into three tranches -$42.0 million3.67%Series A Notes dueJuly 5, 2022,$53.0 million3.82%Series B Notes dueJuly 5, 2024, and$73.0 million4.02%Series C Notes dueJuly 5, 2027(the “Notes”). The Notes rank pari passu with our other senior unsecured debt. The weighted average of the coupon interest rates on the Notes is3.87%. As ofDecember 31, 2018and2017, there were unamortized debt issuance costs remaining of$0.6 millionand$0.7 million, respectively, which are being amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the Notes.












Covenants



Pursuant to the financial covenants in our debt agreements, we are required to maintain established interest coverage ratios and to not exceed established leverage ratios. In addition, the agreements contain other customary covenants, none of which we consider restrictive to our operations. AtDecember 31, 2018, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants, and we expect to continue to be in compliance with the terms of these agreements throughout 2019.



Interest costs incurred during2018,2017and2016were$9.3 million,$10.5 millionand$11.7 million, respectively. The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt, excluding unamortized debt issuance costs, were as follows:2019-$0.1 million,2020-$28.6 million,nonein2021,2022-$42.0 million,nonein 2023, and thereafter -$126.0 million.





Note 10:  Derivative Financial Instruments



Our ongoing business operations expose us to various risks, such as fluctuating interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and increasing commodity prices. To manage these market risks, we periodically enter into derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, options and foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with, and for notional amounts equal to or less than, the related underlying exposures. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for investment or trading purposes. All derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.



Interest Rate Risk



At December 31, 2016, we had a$34.9 millionforward-start interest rate swap outstanding that hedged the variability in cash flows due to changes in the applicable interest rate of our variable-ratefive-year term loan. Under this swap, we received variable interest rate payments based onone-month LIBORplus a margin in return for making monthly fixed interest payments at5.41%. We designated this swap as a cash flow hedge.



On October 2, 2017, we paid the$33.1 millionoutstanding to extinguish the term loan and terminated the interest-rate swap agreement.



Foreign Exchange Rate Risk



We have entered into forward exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, to manage our exposure to fluctuating foreign exchange rates on cross-currency intercompany loans. As of December 31, 2018, the total amount of these forward exchange contracts was€10.0 million, SGD601.5 millionand$13.4 million. As of December 31, 2017, the total amount of these forward exchange contracts was€12.0 million, SGD171.0 millionand$13.4 million.



In addition, we have entered into several foreign currency contracts, designated as cash flow hedges, for periods of up to eighteen months, intended to hedge the currency risk associated with a portion of our forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies. As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding foreign currency contracts to purchase and sell certain pairs of currencies, as follows:



(in millions)SellCurrencyPurchaseUSDEuroUSD32.9—27.8Yen5,602.727.320.4SGD42.420.09.5












AtDecember 31, 2018, a portion of our debt consisted of borrowings denominated in currencies other than USD. We have designated our€21.0 million($24.0 million) Euro-denominated borrowings under our Credit Facility as a hedge of our net investment in certain European subsidiaries. A cumulative foreign currency translation loss of$0.2 millionpre-tax ($0.1 millionafter tax) on this debt was recorded within accumulated other comprehensive loss as ofDecember 31, 2018. We have also designated our¥500.0 million($4.6 million) Yen-denominated borrowings under our Credit Facility as a hedge of our net investment in Daikyo. AtDecember 31, 2018, there was a cumulative foreign currency translation loss of$0.4 millionpre-tax ($0.3 millionafter tax) on this Yen-denominated debt, which was also included within accumulated other comprehensive loss.



Commodity Price Risk



Many of our proprietary products are made from synthetic elastomers, which are derived from the petroleum refining process. We purchase the majority of our elastomers via long-term supply contracts, some of which contain clauses that provide for surcharges related to fluctuations in crude oil prices. The following economic hedges did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment since they did not meet the highly effective requirement at inception.



In November 2016, we purchased a series of call options for a total of96,525barrels of crude oil to mitigate our exposure to such oil-based surcharges and protect operating cash flows with regards to a portion of our forecasted elastomer purchases through November 2017. In November 2017, we purchased a series of call options for a total of125,166barrels of crude oil through May 2019. In April 2018, we purchased a series of call options for a total of30,612barrels of crude oil from December 2018 through August 2019.



During 2018, the gain recorded in cost of goods and services sold related to these options was$0.1 million. During 2017, the loss recorded in cost of goods and services sold related to these options was$0.3 million.



As of December 31, 2018, we had outstanding contracts to purchase47,445barrels of crude oil from January 2019 to August 2019 at a weighted-average strike price of$76.45per barrel.



Effects of Derivative Instruments on Financial Position and Results of Operations



Please refer to Note 11,Fair Value Measurements, for the balance sheet location and fair values of our derivative instruments as ofDecember 31, 2018and2017.



The following table summarizes the effects of derivative instruments designated as hedges on OCI and earnings, net of tax, for the year ended December 31:

Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in OCIAmount of Loss (Gain) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into IncomeLocation of Loss (Gain) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI intoIncome($ in millions)2018201720182017Cash Flow Hedges:Foreign currency hedge contracts$0.4$(1.7)$0.6$1.1Net salesForeign currency hedge contracts2.2(2.0)0.30.8Cost of goods and services soldInterest rate swap contracts—0.1—0.5Interest expenseForward treasury locks——0.30.2Interest expenseTotal$2.6$(3.6)$1.2$2.6Net Investment Hedges:Foreign currency-denominated debt$0.8$(2.4)$—$—Other expenseTotal$0.8$(2.4)$—$—



During2018and2017, there was no material ineffectiveness related to our hedges.














Note 11:  Fair Value Measurements



Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The following fair value hierarchy classifies the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into one of three levels:

•Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

•Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. These include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets and quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active.

•Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions.



The following tables present the assets and liabilities recorded at fair value on a recurring basis:

Balance atBasis of Fair Value Measurements($ in millions)December 31,2018Level 1Level 2Level 3Assets:Deferred compensation assets$8.7$8.7$—$—Foreign currency contracts6.5—6.5—$15.2$8.7$6.5$—Liabilities:Contingent consideration$1.7$—$—$1.7Deferred compensation liabilities9.89.8——Foreign currency contracts0.2—0.2—$11.7$9.8$0.2$1.7



Balance atBasis of Fair Value Measurements($ in millions)December 31,2017Level 1Level 2Level 3Assets:Deferred compensation assets$8.9$8.9$—$—Foreign currency contracts0.5—0.5—$9.4$8.9$0.5$—Liabilities:Contingent consideration$4.9$—$—$4.9Deferred compensation liabilities9.99.9——Foreign currency contracts5.1—5.1—$19.9$9.9$5.1$4.9



Deferred compensation assets are included within other noncurrent assets and are valued using a market approach based on quoted market prices in an active market. The fair value of our foreign currency contracts, included within other current assets and other current liabilities, is valued using an income approach based on quoted forward foreign exchange rates and spot rates at the reporting date.  The fair value of our contingent consideration, included within other current and other long-term liabilities, is discussed further in the section related to Level 3 fair value










measurements. The fair value of deferred compensation liabilities is based on quoted prices of the underlying employees’ investment selections and is included within other long-term liabilities. Please refer to Note 10,Derivative Financial Instruments, for further discussion of our derivatives.



Level 3 Fair Value Measurements



The fair value of the contingent consideration liability related to the SmartDose technology platform (the "SmartDose contingent consideration") was initially determined using a probability-weighted income approach, and is revalued at each reporting date or more frequently if circumstances dictate. Changes in the fair value of this obligation are recorded as income or expense within other (income) expense in our consolidated statements of income. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the SmartDose contingent consideration are the sales projections, the probability of success factors, and the discount rate. Significant increases or decreases in any of those inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. As development and commercialization of the SmartDose technology platform progresses, we may need to update the sales projections, the probability of success factors, and the discount rate used. This could result in a material increase or decrease to the SmartDose contingent consideration.



The following table provides a summary of changes in our Level 3 fair value measurements:

($ in millions)Balance, December 31, 2016$8.0Decrease in fair value recorded in earnings(2.4)Payments(0.7)Balance, December 31, 20174.9Decrease in fair value recorded in earnings(2.6)Payments(0.6)Balance, December 31, 2018$1.7



Other Financial Instruments



We believe that the carrying amounts of our cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable approximate their fair values due to their near-term maturities.



The estimated fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for debt issuances with similar terms and maturities and is classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. AtDecember 31, 2018, the estimated fair value of long-term debt was$192.6 millioncompared to a carrying amount of$196.0 million. AtDecember 31, 2017, the estimated fair value of long-term debt was$201.5 millionand the carrying amount was$197.0 million.














Note 12: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss



The following table presents the changes in the components of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

($ in millions)Losses oncash flowhedgesUnrealized gainson investmentsecuritiesDefined benefitpension and otherpostretirement plansForeigncurrencytranslationTotalBalance, December 31, 2016$(3.2)$5.2$(45.4)$(143.4)$(186.8)Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications(3.6)(4.7)6.368.866.8Amounts reclassified out2.6—0.1—2.7Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax(1.0)(4.7)6.468.869.5Balance, December 31, 2017(4.2)0.5(39.0)(74.6)(117.3)Other comprehensive income (loss) before reclassifications2.6(0.1)(1.0)(39.2)(37.7)Amounts reclassified out1.2—(0.4)—0.8Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax3.8(0.1)(1.4)(39.2)(36.9)Balance, December 31, 2018$(0.4)$0.4$(40.4)$(113.8)$(154.2)



A summary of the reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive loss is presented in the following table ($ in millions):

Detail of components20182017Location on Statement of IncomeLosses on cash flow hedges:Foreign currency contracts$(0.7)$(1.3)Net salesForeign currency contracts(0.5)(1.2)Cost of goods and services soldInterest rate swap contracts—(0.7)Interest expenseForward treasury locks(0.4)(0.4)Interest expenseTotal before tax(1.6)(3.6)Tax expense0.41.0Net of tax$(1.2)$(2.6)Amortization of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans:Prior service credit2.02.1(a)Actuarial losses(1.4)(2.3)(a)Total before tax0.6(0.2)Tax expense(0.2)0.1Net of tax$0.4$(0.1)Total reclassifications for the period, net of tax$(0.8)$(2.7)



(a) These components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost. Please refer to Note 14,Benefit Plans, for additional details.





Note 13:  Stock-Based Compensation



The West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 2016 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the “2016 Plan”) provides for the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards and performance awards to










employees and non-employee directors. A committee of the Board of Directors determines the terms and conditions of awards to be granted. Vesting requirements vary by award. AtDecember 31, 2018, there were3,710,483shares remaining in the 2016 Plan for future grants.



Stock options and stock appreciation rights reduce the number of shares available byoneshare for each award granted. All other awards under the 2016 Plan will reduce the total number of shares available for grant by an amount equal to2.5times the number of shares awarded. If awards made under previous plans would entitle a plan participant to an amount of West stock in excess of the target amount, the additional shares (up to a maximum threshold amount) will be distributed under the 2016 Plan.



The following table summarizes our stock-based compensation expense recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31:

($ in millions)201820172016Stock option and appreciation rights$8.6$7.8$8.6Performance share units, stock-settled2.54.16.7Performance share units, cash-settled—0.10.1Performance share units, dividend equivalents0.10.10.2Employee stock purchase plan0.90.80.7Deferred compensation plans3.03.23.2Total stock-based compensation expense$15.1$16.1$19.5



In addition, we recorded a$0.2 millioncharge during 2016 as part of our restructuring plan, which was recorded within other expense. Please refer to Note 15,Other Expense,for further discussion of the 2016 restructuring plan.



The amount of unrecognized compensation expense for all non-vested awards as ofDecember 31, 2018was approximately$19.1 million, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of1.7years.



Stock Options



Stock options granted to employees vest in equal increments. All awards expire10years from the date of grant. Upon the exercise of stock options, shares are issued in exchange for the exercise price of the options.



The following table summarizes changes in outstanding options:

(in millions, except per share data)201820172016Options outstanding, January 13.54.55.0Granted0.50.50.7Exercised(1.0)(1.5)(1.1)Forfeited——(0.1)Options outstanding, December 313.03.54.5Options exercisable, December 311.71.92.7

Weighted Average Exercise Price201820172016Options outstanding, January 1$48.76$38.11$31.77Granted90.3684.0961.98Exercised35.9526.1522.50Forfeited75.3260.9245.91Options outstanding, December 31$58.93$48.76$38.11Options exercisable, December 31$45.32$35.44$27.17












As ofDecember 31, 2018, the weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding and of options exercisable was6.4years and5.2years, respectively.



As ofDecember 31, 2018, the aggregate intrinsic value of total options outstanding was$117.5 million, of which$89.3 millionrepresented vested options.



The fair value of the options was estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option valuation model that used the following weighted average assumptions in2018,2017and2016: a risk-free interest rate of2.7%,2.0%, and1.4%, respectively; stock volatility of19.8%,19.9%, and20.4%, respectively; and dividend yields of0.7%,0.7%, and0.9%, respectively. Stock volatility is estimated based on historical data and the impact from expected future trends. Expected lives, which are based on prior experience, averaged6 yearsfor2018,2017and2016. The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted in2018,2017and2016was$20.16,$18.08and$12.12, respectively. Stock option expense is recognized over the vesting period, net of forfeitures.



For the years ended December 31,2018,2017and2016, the intrinsic value of options exercised was$61.3 million,$91.7 millionand$49.4 million, respectively. The grant date fair value of options vested during those same periods was$8.3 million,$6.7 millionand$5.8 million, respectively.



Stock Appreciation Rights



Stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) granted to eligible international employees vest in equal annual increments over4 yearsof continuous service. All awards expire10 yearsfrom the date of grant. The fair value of each cash-settled SAR is adjusted at the end of each reporting period, with the resulting change reflected in expense. As ofDecember 31, 2018, SARs outstanding were39,819, of which25,659were cash-settled and14,160were stock-settled. Upon exercise of a cash-settled SAR, the employee receives cash for the difference between the grant date price and the fair market value of the Company’s stock on the date of exercise. As a result of the cash settlement feature, cash-settled SARs are recorded within other long-term liabilities. Upon exercise of a stock-settled SAR, shares are issued in exchange for the exercise price of the stock-settled SAR. As a result of the stock settlement feature, stock-settled SARs are recorded within equity.



The following table summarizes changes in outstanding SARs:

201820172016SARs outstanding, January 151,368116,087232,930Granted3,4802,7923,368Exercised(14,629)(67,511)(114,976)Forfeited(400)—(5,235)SARs outstanding, December 3139,81951,368116,087SARs exercisable, December 3130,28539,76971,701Weighted Average Exercise Price201820172016SARs outstanding, January 1$38.55$31.13$27.79Granted89.6483.4768.40Exercised28.4527.6524.95Forfeited63.43—42.28SARs outstanding, December 31$46.48$38.55$31.13SARs exercisable, December 31$36.91$30.77$26.65












Performance Awards



In addition to stock options and SAR awards, we grant performance share unit (“PSU”) awards to eligible employees. These awards are earned based on the Company’s performance against pre-established targets, including annual growth rate of revenue and return on invested capital, over a specified performance period. Depending on the achievement of the targets, recipients of stock-settled PSU awards are entitled to receive a certain number of shares of common stock, whereas recipients of cash-settled PSU awards are entitled to receive a payment in cash per unit based on the fair market value of a share of our common stock at the end of the performance period.



The following table summarizes changes in our outstanding stock-settled PSU awards:

201820172016Non-vested stock-settled PSU awards, January 1341,944378,062422,726Granted at target level102,30792,045115,035Adjustments above/(below) target(2,284)(11,369)19,339Vested and converted(121,984)(116,684)(173,364)Forfeited(23,946)(110)(5,674)Non-vested stock-settled PSU awards, December 31296,037341,944378,062Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value201820172016Non-vested stock-settled PSU awards, January 1$64.38$54.47$45.60Granted at target level90.4584.0160.47Adjustments above/(below) target33.8642.8538.71Vested and converted93.0050.0659.64Forfeited68.6573.6449.86Non-vested stock-settled PSU awards, December 31$76.84$64.38$54.47



Shares earned under PSU awards may vary from0%to200%of an employee’s targeted award. The fair value of stock-settled PSU awards is based on the market price of our stock at the grant date and is recognized as expense over the performance period, adjusted for estimated target outcomes and net of forfeitures. The weighted average grant date fair value of stock-settled PSU awards granted during the years2018,2017and2016was$90.45,$84.01and$60.47, respectively. Including forfeiture and above-target achievement expectations, we expect that the stock-settled PSU awards will convert to108,626shares to be issued over an average remaining term ofoneyear.



The fair value of cash-settled PSU awards is also based on the market price of our stock at the grant date. These awards are revalued at the end of each quarter based on changes in our stock price. As a result of the cash settlement feature, cash-settled PSU awards are recorded within other long-term liabilities.












The following table summarizes changes in our outstanding cash-settled PSU awards:

201820172016Non-vested cash-settled PSU awards, January 11,9722,45129,196Granted at target level560598419Adjustments above/(below) target(30)(107)2,858Vested and converted(910)(970)(29,032)Forfeited——(990)Non-vested cash-settled PSU awards, December 311,5921,9722,451

Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value201820172016Non-vested cash-settled PSU awards, January 1$92.25$25.28$32.07Granted at target level89.6483.4759.64Adjustments above/(below) target41.5366.6130.80Vested and converted93.0086.9359.64Forfeited——50.55Non-vested cash-settled PSU awards, December 31$79.48$92.25$25.28



Employee Stock Purchase Plan



We also offer an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), which provides for the sale of our common stock to eligible employees at85%of the current market price on the last trading day of each quarterly offering period. Payroll deductions are limited to25%of the employee’s base salary, not to exceed$25,000in any one calendar year. In addition, employees may not buy more than2,000shares during any offering period (8,000shares per year). Purchases under the ESPP were55,669shares,56,218shares and60,839shares for the years2018,2017and2016, respectively. AtDecember 31, 2018, there were approximately3.9 millionshares available for issuance under the ESPP.



Deferred Compensation Plans



Our deferred compensation plans include a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, under which non-employee directors may defer all or part of their annual cash retainers. The deferred fees may be credited to a stock-equivalent account. Amounts credited to this account are converted into deferred stock units based on the fair market value ofoneshare of our common stock on the last day of the quarter. For deferred stock units ultimately paid in cash, a liability is calculated at an amount determined by multiplying the number of units by the fair market value of our common stock at the end of each reporting period. In addition, deferred stock awards are granted on the date of our annual meeting, and are distributed in shares of common stock. In2018, we granted18,824deferred stock awards, with a grant date fair value of$87.69. Similarly, a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for eligible employees provides for the conversion of compensation into deferred stock units. As ofDecember 31, 2018, thetwodeferred compensation plans held a total of429,777deferred stock units, including24,296units to be paid in cash.



In addition, during2018, we granted15,942restricted share awards at a weighted grant-date fair value of$96.77per share to new executive officers under the 2016 Plan. There werenogrants of restricted share awards in 2017. During 2016, we granted1,393restricted share awards at a weighted grant-date fair value of$71.79per share to new executive officers under the 2016 Plan. The fair value of these awards is based on the market price of our stock at the grant date and is recognized as expense over the vesting period.



Annual Incentive Plan



Under our annual incentive plan, participants are paid bonuses on the attainment of certain financial goals, which they can elect to receive in either cash or shares of our common stock. If the employee elects payment in shares,










they are also given a restricted incentive stock award equal tooneshare for eachfourbonus shares issued. The incentive stock awards vest at the end offour yearsprovided that the participant has not made a disqualifying disposition of their bonus shares. Incentive stock award grants were1,500shares,1,800shares and2,400shares in2018,2017and2016, respectively. Incentive stock forfeitures of200shares,800shares and800shares occurred in2018,2017and2016, respectively. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period based on the fair market value of common stock on the award date:$93.00per share granted in2018,$86.93per share granted in2017and$59.64per share granted in2016.





Note 14:  Benefit Plans



Certain of our U.S. and international subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension plans. In addition, we provide minimal death benefits for certain U.S. retirees and pay a portion of healthcare costs for retired U.S. salaried employees and their dependents. Benefits for participants are coordinated with Medicare and the plan mandates Medicare risk (“HMO”) coverage wherever possible and caps the total contribution for non-HMO coverage. We also sponsor a defined contribution plan for certain salaried and hourly U.S. employees. Our 401(k) plan contributions were$6.5 millionfor2018,$5.7 millionfor2017and$4.9 millionfor2016.



Pension and Other Retirement Benefits



The components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in OCI were as follows:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits($ in millions)201820172016201820172016Net periodic benefit cost:Service cost$10.8$10.4$10.2$—$—$0.5Interest cost9.49.810.50.20.30.5Expected return on assets(15.7)(13.5)(12.6)———Amortization of prior service credit(1.3)(1.3)(1.4)(0.7)(0.7)—Amortization of transition obligation——0.1———Amortization of actuarial loss (gain)3.84.94.8(2.4)(2.6)(1.4)Curtailment——(2.1)———Net periodic benefit cost$7.0$10.3$9.5$(2.9)$(3.0)$(0.4)Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in OCI, pre-tax:Net loss (gain) arising during period$3.5$(9.0)$19.2$(1.4)$(1.1)$(0.1)Prior service credit arising during period0.3————(3.0)Amortization of prior service credit1.31.31.40.70.7—Amortization of transition obligation——(0.1)———Amortization of actuarial (loss) gain(3.8)(4.9)(4.8)2.42.61.4Curtailment——(3.1)———Foreign currency translation(1.2)2.6(3.2)———Total recognized in OCI$0.1$(10.0)$9.4$1.7$2.2$(1.7)Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and OCI$7.1$0.3$18.9$(1.2)$(0.8)$(2.1)












Net periodic benefit cost by geographic location is as follows:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits($ in millions)201820172016201820172016U.S. plans$4.8$7.3$7.1$(2.9)$(3.0)$(0.4)International plans2.23.02.4———Net periodic benefit cost$7.0$10.3$9.5$(2.9)$(3.0)$(0.4)



In March 2017, the FASB issued guidance on the presentation of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit

cost (net benefit cost). We adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2018, on a retrospective basis. Please refer to Note

2,New Accounting Standards, for additional information.



Effective January 1, 2019, except for interest crediting, benefit accruals under our U.S. qualified and non-qualified

defined benefit pension plans will cease.



During 2016, we recorded a pension curtailment gain of$2.1 millionin connection with our decision to freeze both our U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans as of January 1, 2019.



The following table presents the changes in the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets, as well as the funded status of the plans:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits($ in millions)2018201720182017Change in benefit obligation:Benefit obligation, January 1$(288.0)$(262.2)$(7.1)$(8.0)Service cost(10.8)(10.4)——Interest cost(9.4)(9.8)(0.2)(0.3)Participants’ contributions(0.6)(0.7)(0.6)(0.5)Actuarial (loss) gain20.4(11.8)1.41.2Amendments/transfers in(0.3)———Benefits/expenses paid18.014.20.50.5Foreign currency translation3.7(7.3)——Benefit obligation, December 31$(267.0)$(288.0)$(6.0)$(7.1)Change in plan assets:Fair value of assets, January 1$239.5$192.4$—$—Actual return on assets(8.3)34.4——Employer contribution2.723.2(0.1)—Participants’ contributions0.60.70.60.5Benefits/expenses paid(18.0)(14.2)(0.5)(0.5)Foreign currency translation(2.0)3.0——Fair value of assets, December 31$214.5$239.5$—$—Funded status at end of year$(52.5)$(48.5)$(6.0)$(7.1)



International pension plan assets, at fair value, included in the preceding table were$33.4 millionand$34.7 millionatDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively.












Amounts recognized in the balance sheet were as follows:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits($ in millions)2018201720182017Current liabilities$(1.6)$(1.5)$(0.7)$(0.7)Noncurrent liabilities(50.9)(47.0)(5.3)(6.4)$(52.5)$(48.5)$(6.0)$(7.1)



The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive loss, pre-tax, consisted of:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits($ in millions)2018201720182017Net actuarial loss (gain)$73.0$74.5$(9.4)$(10.4)Prior service cost (credit)0.9(0.8)(1.7)(2.4)Total$73.9$73.7$(11.1)$(12.8)



The net actuarial loss and prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are$2.1 millionand$0.1 million, respectively. The net actuarial gain and prior service credit for the other retirement benefits plan that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is$2.1 millionand$0.7 million.



The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was$263.0 millionand$283.7 millionatDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively, including$64.0 millionand$67.3 million, respectively, for international pension plans.



All of the defined benefit pension plans have projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as ofDecember 31, 2018and2017.



Benefit payments expected to be paid under our defined benefit pension and other retirement benefit plans in the next ten years are as follows:

($ in millions)DomesticInternationalTotal2019$13.6$2.1$15.7202014.62.717.3202114.12.216.3202214.72.917.6202314.92.317.22024 to 202869.316.986.2$141.2$29.1$170.3



In 2019, we expect to contribute$3.2 millionto pension plans, of which$2.3 millionis for international plans. In addition, we expect to contribute$0.7 millionfor other retirement benefits in 2019. We periodically consider additional, voluntary contributions depending on the investment returns generated by pension plan assets, changes in benefit obligation projections and other factors.












Weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost were as follows:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits201820172016201820172016Discount rate2.91%3.48%3.99%3.45%3.90%4.30%Rate of compensation increase4.00%4.01%4.04%———Long-term rate of return on assets6.71%6.47%6.95%———



Weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations were as follows:

Pension benefitsOther retirement benefits2018201720182017Discount rate3.76%3.14%4.20%3.45%Rate of compensation increase4.01%3.80%——



The discount rate used to determine the benefit obligations for U.S. pension plans was4.30%and3.65%as of December 31,2018and2017, respectively.  The weighted average discount rate used to determine the benefit obligations for all international plans was2.19%and1.62%as of December 31,2018and2017, respectively. The rate of compensation increase for U.S. plans was4.25%for2018and2017, while the weighted average rate for all international plans was2.60%for2018and2.44%for2017. Other retirement benefits were only available to U.S. employees. The expected long-term rate of return for U.S. plans, which accounts for84.45%of global plan assets, was7.00%for2018,7.00%for2017and7.25%for2016.



The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used to determine benefit obligations was6.25%for all participants in2018, decreasing to5.00%by 2024. A change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate by one percentage point would have an immaterial impact in the postretirement obligation. The assumed healthcare cost trend rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost was6.60%for all participants in2018, decreasing to5.00%by 2022. The effect of a one percentage point increase or decrease in the rate would have an immaterial impact in the aggregate service and interest cost components.



The weighted average asset allocations by asset category for our pension plans, at December 31, were as follows:

20182017Equity securities23%63%Debt securities74%37%Other3%—%100%100%



Our U.S. pension plan is managed as a balanced portfolio comprised of two components: equity and fixed income debt securities. Equity investments are used to maximize the long-term real growth of fund assets, while fixed income investments are used to generate current income, provide for a more stable periodic return, and provide some protection against a prolonged decline in the market value of equity investments. Temporary funds may be held as cash. We maintain a long-term strategic asset allocation policy which provides guidelines for ensuring that the fund’s investments are managed with the short-term and long-term financial goals of the fund, while allowing the flexibility to react to unexpected changes in capital markets.



Diversification across and within asset classes is the primary means by which we mitigate risk. We maintain guidelines for all asset and sub-asset categories in order to avoid excessive investment concentrations. Fund assets are monitored on a regular basis. If at any time the fund asset allocation is not within the acceptable allocation range, funds will be reallocated. We also review the fund on a regular basis to ensure that the investment returns received are consistent with the short-term and long-term goals of the fund and with comparable market returns. We are










prohibited from pledging fund securities and from investing pension fund assets in our own stock, securities on margin or derivative securities.



During the three months ended December 31, 2018, in anticipation of benefit accruals under our U.S. qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension plans ceasing effective January 1, 2019, except for interest crediting, we changed the U.S. target asset allocations from65%equity securities and35%debt securities to30%equity securities and70%debt securities.



The following are the U.S. target asset allocations and acceptable allocation ranges:

Target allocationAllocation rangeEquity securities30%27% - 33%Debt securities70%67% - 73%Other—%0% - 3%



The following tables present the fair value of our pension plan assets, utilizing the fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 11,Fair Value Measurements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, certain pension plan assets measured at net asset value (“NAV”) have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy.

Balance atDecember 31,Basis of Fair Value Measurements($ in millions)2018Level 1Level 2Level 3Cash$1.7$1.7$—$—Equity securities:International mutual funds17.717.7——Fixed income securities:Mutual funds13.913.9——Pension plan assets in the fair value hierarchy$33.3$33.3$—$—Pension plan assets measured at NAV181.2Pension plan assets at fair value$214.5



Balance atDecember 31,Basis of Fair Value Measurements($ in millions)2017Level 1Level 2Level 3Cash$1.6$1.6$—$—Equity securities:International mutual funds15.515.5——Fixed income securities:Mutual funds17.517.5——Pension plan assets in the fair value hierarchy$34.6$34.6$—$—Pension plan assets measured at NAV204.9Pension plan assets at fair value$239.5







Note 15:  Other Expense



Other expense consisted of:

($ in millions)201820172016Restructuring and related charges:Severance and post-employment benefits$3.1$—$8.9Asset-related charges2.2—17.3Other charges3.8—0.2Total restructuring and related charges$9.1$—$26.4Argentina currency devaluation1.1——Venezuela deconsolidation—11.1—Venezuela currency devaluation——2.7Development and licensing income(0.9)(10.6)(1.5)Contingent consideration(2.6)(2.4)2.3Other items(4.8)3.9(0.1)Total other expense$1.9$2.0$29.8












Restructuring and Related Charges



In February 2018, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan designed to realign our manufacturing capacity with demand. These changes are expected to be implemented over the following twelve to twenty-four months. The plan will require restructuring and related charges in the range of$8.0 millionto$13.0 millionand capital expenditures in the range of$9.0 millionto$14.0 million.



During 2018, we recorded$8.8 millionin restructuring and related charges associated with this plan, consisting of$3.1 millionfor severance charges,$2.2 millionfor non-cash asset write-downs associated with the discontinued use of certain equipment, and$3.5 millionfor other charges.



The following table presents activity related to our restructuring obligations related to our 2018 restructuring plan:

($ in millions)Severance    and benefitsAsset-related chargesOther chargesTotalBalance, December 31, 2017$—$—$—$—Charges3.12.23.58.8Cash payments(0.8)——(0.8)Non-cash asset write-downs—(2.2)(3.5)(5.7)Balance, December 31, 2018$2.3$—$—$2.3



On February 15, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan designed to repurpose several of our production facilities in support of growing high-value proprietary products and to realign operational and commercial activities to meet the needs of our new market-focused commercial organization. During 2018, we recorded$0.3 millionin additional charges related to this restructuring plan. Our remaining restructuring obligations related to our 2016 restructuring plan as of December 31, 2018 were$1.0 million.



Other Items



During 2018, we recorded a charge of$1.1 millionrelated to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018.



On February 17, 2016, the Venezuelan government announced a devaluation of the Bolivar, from the previously-prevailing official exchange rate of6.3Bolivars to USD to10.0Bolivars to USD, and streamlined the previous

three-tiered currency exchange mechanism into a dual currency exchange mechanism. As a result, during 2016, we recorded a$2.7 millioncharge. In 2017, as a result of the continued deterioration of conditions in Venezuela as well as our continued reduced access to USD settlement controlled by the Venezuelan government, we recorded a charge of$11.1 millionrelated to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary, following our determination that we no longer met the U.S. GAAP criteria for control of that subsidiary. This charge included the derecognition of the carrying amounts of our Venezuelan subsidiary’s assets and liabilities, as well as the write-off of our investment in our Venezuelan subsidiary, related unrealized translation adjustments and the elimination of intercompany accounts. As of April 1, 2017, our consolidated financial statements exclude the results of our Venezuelan subsidiary.



During2018,2017and2016, we recorded development income of$0.9 million,$1.5 millionand$1.5 million, respectively, related to a nonrefundable customer payment of$20.0 millionreceived in June 2013 in return for the exclusive use of the SmartDose technology platform within a specific therapeutic area. Please refer to Note 3,Revenue, for additional information. In addition, during2017, we recorded income of$9.1 millionattributable to the reimbursement of certain costs related to a technology that we subsequently licensed to a third party. The license of technology to the third party may result in additional income in the future, contingent on commercialization of the related product.












Contingent consideration represents changes in the fair value of the SmartDose contingent consideration. Please refer to Note 11,Fair Value Measurements, for additional details.



Other items consist of foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets, and miscellaneous income and charges. Other items changed in 2018 as a result of foreign exchange transaction gains of$5.5 millionin 2018, as compared to foreign exchange transaction losses of$2.1 millionin 2017, and a$1.1 milliongain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans.





Note 16:  Income Taxes



As a global organization, we and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions. During2018, the statute of limitations for the 2014 U.S. federal tax year lapsed, leaving tax years 2015 through2018open to examination. For U.S. state and local jurisdictions, tax years 2014 through2018are open to examination. We are also subject to examination in various foreign jurisdictions for tax years 2011 through2018.



A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

($ in millions)20182017Balance at January 1$3.2$6.2Increase due to current year position0.80.4Increase due to prior year position0.40.1Reduction for expiration of statute of limitations/audits(0.5)(3.5)Balance at December 31$3.9$3.2



In addition, we had balances in accrued liabilities for interest and penalties of$0.2 millionand$0.1 millionatDecember 31, 2018and2017, respectively. As ofDecember 31, 2018, we had$3.9 millionof total gross unrecognized tax benefits, which, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective income tax rate. It is reasonably possible that, due to the expiration of statutes and the closing of tax audits, the amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits may be reduced by approximately$0.4 millionduring the next twelve months, which would favorably impact our effective tax rate.

The components of income before income taxes are:($ in millions)201820172016U.S. operations$132.9$96.5$84.5International operations107.8125.9105.3Total income before income taxes$240.7$222.4$189.8










The related provision for income taxes consists of:

($ in millions)201820172016Current:Federal$2.1$2.1$2.5State3.30.11.0International35.137.029.4Current income tax provision40.539.232.9Deferred:Federal and state1.441.821.8International(0.5)(0.1)(0.3)Deferred income tax provision0.941.721.5Income tax expense$41.4$80.9$54.4



Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and tax purposes.



The significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31 are:

($ in millions)20182017Deferred tax assetsNet operating loss carryforwards$18.4$19.7Tax credit carryforwards10.513.7Restructuring and impairment charges—0.1Pension and deferred compensation27.228.3Other11.414.3Valuation allowance(16.0)(20.9)Total deferred tax assets51.555.2Deferred tax liabilities:Accelerated depreciation31.326.3Tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries6.69.8Other2.03.8Total deferred tax liabilities39.939.9Net deferred tax asset$11.6$15.3












A reconciliation of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate to our effective consolidated tax rate on income before income taxes follows:

201820172016U.S. federal corporate tax rate21.0%35.0%35.0%Tax on international operations other than U.S. tax rate4.8(4.5)(2.9)Reversal of prior valuation allowance—(0.5)(0.3)Adjustments to reserves for unrecognized tax benefits0.2(0.2)(0.6)U.S. tax on international earnings, net of foreign tax credits(0.2)0.1(1.3)State income taxes, net of federal tax effect2.30.20.8U.S. research and development credits(0.9)(0.8)(0.8)Excess tax benefits on share-based payments(6.0)(14.1)—Impact of 2017 Tax Act(2.9)15.9—Tax on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries(1.3)4.4—Venezuela deconsolidation—1.7—Other business credits and Section 199 Deduction—(0.6)(1.1)Other0.2(0.2)(0.1)Effective tax rate17.2%36.4%28.7%



During 2018, we recorded a net tax benefit of$2.5 millionfor the impact of tax law changes, including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of$14.3 millionassociated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



During 2017, we recorded a discrete tax charge of$48.8 millionrelated to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances, as well as a tax benefit of$33.1 millionassociated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



The 2017 Tax Act, which was signed into law on December 22, 2017, has resulted in significant changes to the U.S. corporate income tax system. These changes include, but are not limited to, a federal statutory rate reduction from35.0%to21.0%effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Changes in tax rates and tax laws are accounted for in the period of enactment. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we recorded a discrete charge based upon our understanding of the 2017 Tax Act and the guidance available as of the date of that filing. A significant portion of the discrete tax liability was attributable to a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax of post-1986 undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings and profits (the “Transition Toll Tax”) of$27.9 million. Additionally, due to the reduction of the federal statutory rate, we revalued our deferred assets and liabilities and recorded a provisional$11.4 millionfederal tax expense, net of state tax impact, during the year ended December 31, 2017.



On December 22, 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 to address the application of U.S. GAAP in situations when a registrant does not have the necessary information available, prepared, or analyzed (including computations) in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for certain income tax effects of the 2017 Tax Act. We recognized the provisional tax impacts related to deemed repatriated earnings and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and included these amounts in our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2018, we finalized our calculations and tax positions used in our analysis of the impact of the 2017 Tax Act in consideration of proposed regulations and other guidance issued during 2018. As a result, we recorded a$7.5 milliontax benefit related to a reduction of the Transition Toll Tax and an incremental tax expense of$4.0 millionrelated to other adjustments. The final measurement reduced the Transition Toll Tax expense to$20.4 millionfrom$27.9 million. The net impact of these adjustments resulted in a benefit of1.45%to the 2018 effective tax rate.












The 2017 Tax Act created a provision known as global intangible low-tax income (“GILTI”) that imposes a U.S. tax on certain earnings of controlled foreign subsidiaries. We made an accounting policy election to reflect GILTI taxes, if any, as a current income tax expense in the period incurred.



During 2016, we recorded a tax benefit of$9.0 millionin connection with restructuring and related charges of$26.4 million, a discrete tax charge of$0.8 millionrelated to the pension curtailment gain of$2.1 million, and a discrete tax charge of$1.0 millionresulting from the impact of changes in enacted tax rates on our previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances.



As ofDecember 31, 2018, we have fully utilized all of our U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards. State operating loss carryforwards of$233.5 millioncreated a deferred tax asset of$15.6 million, while foreign operating loss carryforwards of$23.2 millioncreated a deferred tax asset of$2.8 million. Management estimates that certain state and foreign operating loss carryforwards are unlikely to be utilized and the associated deferred tax assets have been fully reserved. State loss carryforwards expire as follows:$11.6 millionin2019and$221.9 millionthereafter. Foreign loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2025, while$20.2 millionof the total$23.2 millionwill not expire.



As ofDecember 31, 2018, we have utilized all available foreign tax credit carryforwards against the Transition Toll Tax. We have U.S. federal and state research and development credit carryforwards of$5.6 millionand$2.6 million, respectively. The$5.6 millionof U.S. federal research and development credits expire as follows:$1.5 millionexpire in2037,$1.8 millionexpire in2038, and$2.3 millionexpire in2039. The$2.6 millionof state research and development credits expire as follows:$0.6 millionexpire in2022,$0.5 millionexpire in2023, and$1.5 millionexpireafter 2023. Additionally, we have available other state tax credits of$0.1 millionwhich expire in 2020.



In response to the 2017 Tax Act, we reevaluated our position regarding permanent reinvestment of foreign subsidiary earnings and profits through 2017 (with the exception of China and Mexico) and decided that those profits were no longer permanently reinvested. As of January 1, 2018, we reasserted indefinite reinvestment related to all post-2017 unremitted earnings in all of our foreign subsidiaries. In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and repatriate earnings only when the tax impact is de minimis, and that position has not changed subsequent to the one-time transition tax under the 2017 Tax Act, except as noted above. Accordingly, no deferred taxes have been provided for withholding taxes or other taxes that would result upon repatriation of approximately$79.7 millionof undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries to the U.S., as those earnings continue to be permanently reinvested. Further, it is impracticable for us to estimate any future tax costs for any unrecognized deferred tax liabilities associated with our indefinite reinvestment assertion, because the actual tax liability, if any, would be dependent on complex analysis and calculations considering various tax laws, exchange rates, circumstances existing when there is a repatriation, sale, or liquidation, or other factors.





Note 17:  Commitments and Contingencies



AtDecember 31, 2018, we were obligated under various operating lease agreements. Rental expense in2018,2017and2016was$14.5 million,$13.3 millionand$11.7 million, respectively.



AtDecember 31, 2018, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases were:

Year($ in millions)2019$13.0202010.520217.820226.920235.5Thereafter37.8Total$81.5












AtDecember 31, 2018, outstanding unconditional contractual commitments for the purchase of raw materials and finished goods amounted to$72.7 million, of which$14.0 millionis due to be paid in 2019.



We have letters of credit totaling$2.5 millionsupporting the reimbursement of workers’ compensation and other claims paid on our behalf by insurance carriers. Our accrual for insurance obligations was$3.4 millionatDecember 31, 2018, of which$0.9 millionis in excess of our deductible and, therefore, is reimbursable by the insurance company.



Our SmartDose contingent consideration is payable to the selling shareholders based upon a percentage of product sales over the life of the underlying product patent, with no cap on total payments. Given the length of the earnout period and the uncertainty in forecasted product sales, we do not believe it is meaningful to estimate the upper end of the range over the entire period. However, our estimated probable range which could become payable over the nextfiveyears is betweenzeroand$2.1 million.





Note 18:  Segment Information



Our business operations are organized intotworeportable segments, Proprietary Products and Contract-Manufactured Products. Our Proprietary Products reportable segment offers proprietary packaging, containment and drug delivery products, along with analytical lab services, to biologic, generic and pharmaceutical drug customers. Our Contract-Manufactured Products reportable segment serves as a fully integrated business, focused on the design, manufacture, and automated assembly of complex devices, primarily for pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and medical device customers.



We evaluate the performance of our segments based upon, among other things, segment net sales and operating profit. Segment operating profit excludes general corporate costs, which include executive and director compensation, stock-based compensation, adjustments to annual incentive plan expense for over- or under-attainment of targets, certain pension and other retirement benefit costs, and other corporate facilities and administrative expenses not allocated to the segments. Also excluded are items that we consider not representative of ongoing operations. Such items are referred to as other unallocated items and generally include restructuring and related charges, certain asset impairments and other specifically-identified income or expense items.



The following table presents information about our reportable segments, reconciled to consolidated totals:



($ in millions)201820172016Net sales:Proprietary Products$1,308.6$1,236.9$1,189.9Contract-Manufactured Products409.1362.5320.2Intersegment sales elimination(0.3)(0.3)(1.0)Consolidated net sales$1,717.4$1,599.1$1,509.1



The intersegment sales elimination, which is required for the presentation of consolidated net sales, represents the elimination of components sold between our segments.



We do not have any customers accounting for greater than10%of consolidated net sales.












The following table presents net sales and property, plant and equipment, net, by the country in which the legal subsidiary is domiciled and assets are located:

Net SalesProperty, Plant and Equipment, Net($ in millions)201820172016201820172016United States$766.1$734.6$738.3$315.3$323.8$329.3Germany235.9226.4200.699.3108.896.8France127.5125.6116.342.543.137.1Other European countries386.1318.5268.3232.5244.9192.3Other201.8194.0185.6132.4134.4122.8$1,717.4$1,599.1$1,509.1$822.0$855.0$778.3



The following tables provide summarized financial information for our segments:

($ in millions)Proprietary ProductsContract-Manufactured ProductsCorporate    and EliminationConsolidated2018Net sales$1,308.6$409.1$(0.3)$1,717.4Operating profit$266.4$44.3$(70.4)$240.3Interest expense——8.48.4Interest income——(2.1)(2.1)Other nonoperating income——(6.7)(6.7)Income before income taxes$266.4$44.3$(70.0)$240.7Segment assets$1,342.3$301.4$335.2$1,978.9Capital expenditures77.020.77.0104.7Depreciation and amortization expense83.917.23.3104.42017Net sales$1,236.9$362.5$(0.3)$1,599.1Operating profit$243.8$48.3$(66.3)$225.8Interest expense——7.87.8Interest income——(1.3)(1.3)Other nonoperating income——(3.1)(3.1)Income before income taxes$243.8$48.3$(69.7)$222.4Segment assets$1,321.3$286.4$255.1$1,862.8Capital expenditures107.218.65.0130.8Depreciation and amortization expense77.116.43.296.72016Net sales$1,189.9$320.2$(1.0)$1,509.1Operating profit$243.1$38.2$(86.1)$195.2Interest expense——8.18.1Interest income——(1.1)(1.1)Other nonoperating income——(1.6)(1.6)Income before income taxes$243.1$38.2$(91.5)$189.8Segment assets$1,173.9$261.1$281.7$1,716.7Capital expenditures133.234.03.0170.2Depreciation and amortization expense71.714.94.190.7














Note 19:  Subsequent Events



In January 2019, we entered into an agreement to acquire the business of our distributor in South Korea. The transaction is expected to close in April 2019.



In February 2019, we announced a share repurchase program for calendar-year 2019 authorizing the repurchase of up to800,000shares of our common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately-negotiated transactions as permitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b-18. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of such transactions will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions. This share repurchase program is expected to be completed by December 31, 2019. Our previously-authorized share repurchase program expired on December 31, 2018.
















Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm



Tothe Shareholders and the Board of Directors of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc.



Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and its subsidiariesas of December 31, 2018and 2017,and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, equity and cash flowsfor each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018, including the related notes and schedule of valuation and qualifying accounts for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018 appearing under Item 15(a)(2) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”).We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework(2013)issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).



In our opinion, the consolidatedfinancial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2018and 2017,and the results of itsoperations and itscash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2018in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established inInternal Control - Integrated Framework(2013)issued by the COSO.



Change in Accounting Principle



As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for revenues from contracts with customers in 2018 and the manner in which it accounts for share-based compensation award-related income tax effects in 2017.



Basis for Opinions



The Company’s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidatedfinancial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.



We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidatedfinancial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.



Our audits of the consolidatedfinancial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidatedfinancial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidatedfinancial statements.  Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidatedfinancial statements.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.












Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting



A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.



/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

February 27, 2019





We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1963.
















Quarterly Operating and Per Share Data (Unaudited)

($ in millions, except per share data)FirstQuarter(1)SecondQuarter(2)ThirdQuarter(3)FourthQuarter(4)Full Year2018Net sales$415.7$447.5$431.7$422.5$1,717.4Gross profit134.4142.2135.6133.2545.4Net income43.656.155.252.0206.9Net income per share:Basic$0.59$0.76$0.75$0.70$2.80Diluted$0.58$0.75$0.73$0.69$2.742017Net sales$387.7$397.6$398.2$415.6$1,599.1Gross profit134.2125.0125.1128.6512.9Net income60.938.851.0—150.7Net income per share:Basic$0.83$0.53$0.69$—$2.04Diluted$0.81$0.51$0.67$—$1.99



The sum of the quarterly amounts may not equal full year due to rounding.



Factors affecting the comparability of the information reflected in the quarterly data:



(1)Net income for the first quarter of 2018 included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $2.7 million ($0.03 per diluted share), a net tax charge of $0.3 million ($0.01 per diluted share) for the estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $2.1 million ($0.03 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions. Net income for the first quarter of 2017 included the impact of a tax benefit of $15.9 million ($0.21 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



(2)Second quarter 2018 net income included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $1.6 million ($0.01 per diluted share), a net tax benefit of $4.8 million ($0.06 per diluted share) for the estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $3.4 million ($0.04 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions. Second quarter 2017 net income included the impact of a tax benefit of $9.6 million ($0.13 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions and a charge of $11.1 million ($0.15 per diluted share) related to the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan subsidiary.



(3)Net income for the third quarter of 2018 included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $0.9 million ($0.01 per diluted share), a net tax charge of $0.4 million for the estimated impact of the 2017 Tax Act, a tax benefit of $7.7 million ($0.10 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions, and a charge of $1.1 million ($0.02 per diluted share) related to the classification of Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP as of July 1, 2018. Net income for the third quarter of 2017 included the impact of a tax benefit of $4.8 million ($0.06 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.



(4)Fourth quarter 2018 net income included the impact of restructuring and related charges of $2.1 million ($0.02 per diluted share), a gain on the sale of fixed assets as a result of our restructuring plans of $0.9 million ($0.01 per diluted share), a net tax charge of $1.6 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for the impact of tax law changes,










including the 2017 Tax Act, and a tax benefit of $1.1 million ($0.02 per diluted share) associated with our adoption in 2017 of guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions. Fourth quarter 2017 net income included the impact of a discrete tax charge of $48.8 million ($0.64 per diluted share) related to the 2017 Tax Act and the impact of changes in enacted international tax rates on previously-recorded deferred tax asset and liability balances and a tax benefit of $2.8 million ($0.04 per diluted share) associated with our adoption of the guidance issued by the FASB regarding share-based payment transactions.





ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE



None.





ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES



Disclosure controls are controls and procedures designed to reasonably ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this annual report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our CEO and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our disclosure controls include some, but not all, components of our internal control over financial reporting.



Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

An evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by this Form 10-K.  Based on this evaluation, our CEO and CFO have concluded that, as ofDecember 31, 2018, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.



Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of our CEO and CFO to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.



Management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as ofDecember 31, 2018based on the framework established in “Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013)” issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Based on this assessment, management has determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as ofDecember 31, 2018.



Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. No evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within West have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Also projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.












The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as ofDecember 31, 2018has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein.



Changes in Internal Controls

During the fourth quarter endedDecember 31, 2018, there have been no changes to our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.



On January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606. Although our adoption of ASC 606 resulted in no change to our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting, we did implement changes to our internal controls relating to revenue. These changes included the development of new policies based on a five-step model provided in ASC 606, enhanced contract review requirements, and other ongoing monitoring activities. These controls were designed to provide assurance at a reasonable level of the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.





ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION



None.





PART III





ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Information about our directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingBoard of Directors Nominee Information- Proposal 1 - Election of Directorsin our 2019 Proxy Statement. Information about our Code of Business Conduct is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingCorporate Governance Documents - Code of Business Conductin our 2019 Proxy Statement. Information regarding the procedures by which our shareholders may recommend nominees to our Board of Directors is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingVoting and Other Information - 2020 Shareholder Proposals or Nominationsincluded in our 2019 Proxy Statement. Information about our Audit Committee, including the members of the committee, and our Audit Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingBoard and Director Information and Policies - Committees - Audit Committeein our 2019 Proxy Statement. The balance of the information required by this item is contained in the discussion entitledExecutive Officers of the Companyin Part I of this Form 10-K.





ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information about director and executive compensation is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingsDirector CompensationandExecutive Compensationin our 2019 Proxy Statement.





ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS



Information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingStock Ownership - Current Stock Ownership by Officers and Directorsin our 2019 Proxy Statement.










Equity Compensation Plan Information Table



The following table sets forth information about the grants of stock options, restricted stock or other rights under all of the Company’s equity compensation plans as of the close of business onDecember 31, 2018. The table does not include information about tax-qualified plans such as the West 401(k) Plan or the West Contract Manufacturing Savings and Retirement Plan.

Plan CategoryNumber of Securitiesto be Issued UponExercise ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and Rights (a)Weighted-AverageExercise Price ofOutstanding Options,Warrants and Rights (b)Number of SecuritiesRemaining Available forFuture Issuance UnderEquity CompensationPlans (Excluding SecuritiesReflected in Columns (a)) (c)Equity compensation plans approved by security holders3,642,288(1)$58.74(2)7,591,586(3)Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders———Total3,642,288$58.747,591,586



(1)Includes 935,878 outstanding stock options, 185,253 restricted performance share units, 17,904 restricted retention share units, 67,797 deferred stock-equivalents units and 584 restricted stock-equivalents units granted to directors under the 2016 Plan. Includes 1,864,237 outstanding stock options, 14,160 outstanding stock-settled stock appreciation rights, 94,746 restricted performance share units, 24,062 restricted retention share units and 171,422 deferred stock-equivalents units under the 2011 Plan (which was terminated in 2016). Includes 193,722 outstanding stock options and 72,523 deferred stock-equivalents units granted to directors under the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors under the 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (which was terminated in 2011). The average term of remaining options and stock-settled stock appreciation rights granted is 6.4 years. No future grants or awards may be made under the terminated plans. The total includes restricted performance share units at 100% of grant. The restricted performance share unit payouts were at 96.6%, 89.8%, and 110.6% in2018,2017and2016, respectively. The total does not include stock-equivalent units granted or credited to directors under the Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors to be settled only in cash.



(2)Restricted performance share and deferred stock-equivalent units are excluded when determining the weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options.

(3)Represents 3,881,103 shares reserved under the Company’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 3,710,483 shares remaining available for issuance under the 2016 Plan. The estimated number of shares that could be issued for2018from the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is 300,852. This number of shares is calculated by multiplying the 244 shares per offering period per participant limit by 1,233, the number of current participants in the plan.





ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE



Information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingCorporate Governance Documents - Related Person Transactions and Proceduresin our 2019 Proxy Statement. Information about director independence is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingCorporate Governance Documents - Director Independencein our 2019 Proxy Statement.





ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

Information about the fees for professional services rendered by our independent auditors in2018and2017is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the headingIndependent Auditors and Fees - Fees Paid to










PricewaterhouseCoopers LLPin our 2019 Proxy Statement. Our Audit Committee’s policy on pre-approval of audit and permissible non-audit services of our independent auditors is incorporated by reference from the section captionedIndependent Auditors and Fees - Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Servicesin our 2019 Proxy Statement.





PART IV





ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



(a) 1.  Financial Statements



The following documents are included in Part II, Item 8:



Consolidated Statements of Income for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

Consolidated Balance Sheets atDecember 31, 2018and2017

Consolidated Statement of Equity for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years endedDecember 31, 2018,2017and2016

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm












(a) 2.  Financial Statement Schedules



Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

($ in millions)Balance atbeginning ofperiodChargedto costsand expensesDeductions (1)Balance atend ofperiodFor the year ended December 31, 2018Allowances deducted from assets:Deferred tax asset valuation allowance$20.9$(3.0)$(1.9)$16.0Allowance for doubtful accounts0.50.70.82.0Total allowances deducted from assets$21.4$(2.3)$(1.1)$18.0For the year ended December 31, 2017Allowances deducted from assets:Deferred tax asset valuation allowance$18.7$2.5$(0.3)$20.9Allowance for doubtful accounts0.4(0.2)0.30.5Total allowances deducted from assets$19.1$2.3$—$21.4For the year ended December 31, 2016Allowances deducted from assets:Deferred tax asset valuation allowance$20.1$(1.3)$(0.1)$18.7Allowance for doubtful accounts0.6—(0.2)0.4Total allowances deducted from assets$20.7$(1.3)$(0.3)$19.1

__________________________

(1)Includes accounts receivable written off, the write-off or write-down of valuation allowances, and translation adjustments.



All other schedules are omitted because they are either not applicable, not required or because the information required is contained in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.



(a) 3.Exhibits - An index of the exhibits included in this Form 10-K is contained on pages F-1 through F-3 and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)See subsection (a) 3. above.

(c)Financial Statements of affiliates are omitted because they do not meet the tests of a significant subsidiary at the 20% level.





ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY



None.
















SIGNATURES



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.

(Registrant)









By: /s/ Bernard J. Birkett

Bernard J. Birkett

Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer







February 27, 2019










Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



SignatureTitleDate/s/ Eric M. GreenDirector, President and Chief Executive OfficerFebruary 27, 2019Eric M. Green(Principal Executive Officer)/s/ Bernard J. BirkettSenior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and TreasurerFebruary 27, 2019Bernard J. Birkett(Principal Financial Officer)/s/ Daniel MaloneVice President and ControllerFebruary 27, 2019Daniel Malone(Principal Accounting Officer)/s/ Mark A. ButhmanDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Mark A. Buthman/s/ William F. Feehery, Ph.D.DirectorFebruary 19, 2019William F. Feehery, Ph.D./s/ Thomas W. HofmannDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Thomas W. Hofmann/s/ Paula A. Johnson, M.D., MPHDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Paula A. Johnson, M.D., MPH/s/ Deborah L.V. KellerDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Deborah L.V. Keller/s/ Myla P. Lai-Goldman, M.D.DirectorFebruary 19, 2019Myla P. Lai-Goldman, M.D./s/ Douglas A. MichelsDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Douglas A. Michels/s/ Paolo PucciDirectorFebruary 19, 2019Paolo Pucci/s/ John H. WeilandDirectorFebruary 19, 2019John H. Weiland/s/ Patrick J. ZennerDirector and Chairman of the BoardFebruary 19, 2019Patrick J. Zenner
















EXHIBIT INDEX





Exhibit NumberDescription

3.1Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation are incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.

3.2Our Bylaws, as amended through May 5, 2015, are incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.

4.1Form of stock certificate for common stock is incorporated by reference from our 1998 Form 10-K.

4.2Article 5, 6, 8(c) and 9 of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation are incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.

4.3Article I and V of our Bylaws, as amended through May 5, 2015, are incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.

4.4(1)Instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt securities of West and its subsidiaries have been omitted.

10.1Credit Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2015, between West, certain of its subsidiaries, the lenders party thereto from time to time, PNC Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent and PNC Capital Markets, LLC, as Sole Lead Arranger and Sole Bookrunner, is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated October 15, 2015.

10.2Note Purchase Agreement, dated July 5, 2012, among the Company and the Purchasers named therein is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K filed on July 10, 2012.

10.3(2)2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan Award, dated as of June 30, 2015, between us and Patrick Zenner, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2015.

10.4(2)Employment Agreement, dated as of April 13, 2015, between us and Eric M. Green, is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated April 15, 2015.

10.5(2)Indemnification Agreement, dated as of April 24, 2015, between us and Eric M. Green, is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated April 30, 2015.

10.6(2)Sign-On Retention Award Notice, dated as of April 24, 2015, from us to Eric M. Green, is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated April 30, 2015.

10.7(2)Employment Agreement, dated May 29, 2018, between us and Bernard J. Birkett, is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K dated June 21, 2018.

10.8(2)Employment Agreement, dated August 28, 2016, between David Montecalvo and us, incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2016.

10.9(2)Supplemental Employees’ Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, is incorporated by reference from our 2008 Form 10-K report.

10.10(2)Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for Designated Employees, as amended and restated effective December 1, 2018.

10.11(2)Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated effective June 30, 2013, is incorporated by reference from our 2013 Form 10-K report.

10.12(2)West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. 2011 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K filed on May 6, 2011.

10.13(2)2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan effective as of May 1, 2007, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Company’s Form 8-K dated May 4, 2007.

10.14(2)Form of Executive 2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.

10.15(2)Form of Director 2006 Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Notice is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.

10.16(2)Form of Director 2006 Stock Unit Award Notice is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.

10.17(2)Form of 2007 Non-Qualified Stock Option and Performance-Vesting Share Unit Award, issued pursuant to the 2004 Stock-Based Compensation Plan, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.



F-1











Exhibit NumberDescription

10.18(2)Form of Director 2007 Deferred Stock Award, issued pursuant to the 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2007.

10.19(2)Form of 2008 Non-Qualified Stock Option and Performance-Vesting Share Unit Award, issued pursuant to the 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.

10.20(2)Form of Director 2008 Deferred Stock Award, issued pursuant to the 2007 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan, is incorporated by reference from our 2008 Form 10-K report.

10.21(2)Form of 2009 Supplemental Long-Term Incentive Award, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2009.

10.22(2)Form of 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan Award is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2014.

10.23(2)Form of 2014 Stock-Settled Restricted Stock Unit Award is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2014.

10.24Indemnification agreements between us and each of our directors in the form of Exhibit 10.1 to our Form 8-K report dated January 6, 2009, which is incorporated by reference.

10.25(2)Form of Change-in-Control Agreement between us and certain of our executive officers, is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2017.

10.26(3)Agreement, effective as of January 1, 2005, between us and The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.

10.27(3)First Agreement to Amend to Agreement, effective as of July 1, 2008, between us and The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company is incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.

10.28(3)Distributorship Agreement, dated and effective January 18, 2017, between Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. and us is incorporate by reference from our 2016 Form 10-K report.

10.29(3)Amended and Restated Technology Exchange and Cross License Agreement, dated and effective January 18, 2017, between Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. and us, incorporated by reference from our 2016 Form 10-K report.

10.30(3)Amended Agreement, dated and effective July 2, 2018, between Daikyo Seiko, Ltd. and us, is incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2018.

10.31(3)Global Supply Agreement by and between ExxonMobil Chemical Company and us, entered into on August 11, 2014, and effective January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2018 is incorporated by reference from our Form 8-K report filed on August 15, 2014.

10.32(3)Amendment by and between ExxonMobil Chemical Company and us, incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended June 30, 2016.

10.33(3)Agreement, dated August 16, 2016, to amend Agreement by and between the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company and us, incorporated by reference from our Form 10-Q report for the quarter ended September 30, 2016.

21.Subsidiaries of the Company.

23.Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1*Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

101.INSXBRL Instance Document

101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document



F-2







Exhibit NumberDescription101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document



(1)We agree to furnish to the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issuances of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries.



(2)Management compensatory plan.



(3)Certain portions of this exhibit have been omitted and filed separately with the SEC pursuant to a confidential treatment order of the SEC.



*Furnished, not filed.



F-3

