
10-K
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. 10-K









________________________________________________________________________________
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996  COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8597
                            ------------------------
 
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
              (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                            ------------------------
 

 
                                  510-460-3600
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      None
 
     Indicate  by check  mark whether the  registrant (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during the preceding  12 months, and  (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [x] No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge,  in definitive proxy  or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]
 
     Aggregate market value of  the voting stock held  by non-affiliates of  the
registrant    as   of    December   31,    1996:   Common    Stock,   $.10   Par
Value -- $153,755,167.
 
     Number of  shares  outstanding of  the  registrant's common  stock,  as  of
December 31, 1996: 11,675,940.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 

 
________________________________________________________________________________





                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     This  report contains  projections and other  forward-looking statements of
the Company's results and prospects. Actual results could differ materially from
these projections.  Factors that  could cause  or contribute  to differences  in
fiscal  1997  results  include: major  changes  in business  conditions  and the
economy in general, new competitive inroads, regulatory and other delays on  new
products  and programs, unexpected changes in reimbursement rates and payer mix,
unforeseen  litigation,  decisions  to  divest   businesses  and  the  cost   of
acquisition  activity,  particularly if  a large  acquisition is  not completed.
Future results  are  also  dependent  on each  business  unit  meeting  specific
objectives.
 
INTRODUCTION
 
     The  Cooper Companies, Inc.  ('TCC' or the  'Company'), through its primary
subsidiaries (CooperVision,  Inc., CooperSurgical,  Inc. and  Hospital Group  of
America,   Inc.),  develops,  manufactures   and  markets  healthcare  products,
including a range of contact lenses and diagnostic and surgical instruments  and
accessories,   and  provides  healthcare  services  through  the  ownership  and
operation of certain psychiatric facilities. TCC is a Delaware corporation which
was organized on March 4, 1980.
 
COOPERVISION
 
     CooperVision, Inc., ('CooperVision'  or 'CVI')  develops, manufactures  and
markets  a range of contact  lenses in the United  States and Canada and through
distributors in  approximately 40  overseas markets.  Approximately 50%  of  the
lenses sold are conventional daily or flexible wear lenses and approximately 50%
constitute planned replacement lenses.
 
     CooperVision's  major  brand name  lenses are  Hydrasoft'r', Preference'r',
Preference  Toric'tm',  Vantage'r',   Permaflex'r',  Permalens'r',  and   Cooper
Clear'tm'.  These and other products  enable CooperVision to fit  the needs of a
diverse group  of  wearers by  offering  lenses  formulated from  a  variety  of
polymers  containing varying  amounts of water  and different  degrees of oxygen
permeability, and having different design parameters, diameters, base curves and
lens edges. Certain  lenses offer  special features such  as protection  against
ultraviolet light, color tint, astigmatic correction or aphakic correction.
 
     Preference'r',   which  was  introduced  in   fiscal  1992,  is  a  planned
replacement product manufactured from the Tetrafilcon A polymer. Three  clinical
studies,   conducted  at  31  investigative   sites  using  603  patients,  have
demonstrated  Preference's  superior  performance  in  connection  with  deposit
resistance, visual acuity and handling.
 
     In  April 1993, CooperVision acquired  CoastVision, Inc. ('CoastVision'), a
contact lens company which designs,  manufactures and markets high quality  soft
toric  lenses  (the  majority of  which  are  custom made)  designed  to correct
astigmatism.  The  acquisition  has  enabled  CooperVision  to  expand  into  an
additional niche in the contact lens market and to enlarge its customer base.
 
     In  October  1994, CooperVision  introduced  Preference Toric'tm',  a toric
planned replacement product. Preference Toric'tm'  combines the benefits of  the
Tetrafilcon  A polymer with the low  cost 'FIPS'tm' manufacturing techniques and
design characteristics of the Hydrasoft'r' toric lens. During 1996, CooperVision
launched two  major line  extensions to  Preference Toric'tm'  resulting in  the
broadest  product line in toric planned  replacement. As a result, practitioners
can fit Preference Toric'tm' on more patients than any other planned replacement
toric lens.
 
     CooperVision continues to grow its  international sales by focusing on  key
alliances  with  optical  distributors  abroad.  Strategic  international  sales
regions for CooperVision include Latin America, the Middle East and the  Pacific
Rim; regions typically under-served by other contact lens manufacturers.
 
     CooperVision is continuing to explore opportunities to expand and diversify
its  business into additional niche markets  and is pursuing strategic alliances
with European and Asian partners.
 
 



COOPERSURGICAL
 
     CooperSurgical,  Inc.  ('CooperSurgical'  or  'CSI')  was  established   in
November  1990 to compete  in niche segments of  the rapidly expanding worldwide
market for  diagnostic  and  surgical instruments,  accessories  and  disposable
devices.  During  the past  few  years, increasing  emphasis  has been  given to
developing, manufacturing and distributing diagnostic and surgical  instruments,
disposable  devices  and  equipment  used selectively  in  both  traditional and
minimally  invasive   surgical  procedures,   especially  those   performed   by
gynecologists.  By the end of fiscal 1996, approximately 90% of CooperSurgical's
net revenue related to women's healthcare products.
 
     CooperSurgical's Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure products, marketed
under the LEEP brand name,  are primarily used for  the removal of cervical  and
vaginal pre-cancerous tissue and benign external lesions. Unlike laser ablation,
which  tends to destroy  tissue, the electrosurgical  procedure removes affected
tissue with minimal charring.  This allows the practitioner  to obtain a  viable
tissue  specimen  for biopsy  purposes.  In addition,  the  Loop Electrosurgical
Excision Procedure is  less painful to  the patient than  laser ablation and  is
easily  learned by practitioners. Because  this procedure enables a gynecologist
to both diagnose and treat a patient  in one office visit, patients incur  lower
costs.
 
     CooperSurgical's   LEEP   System  1000'r'   branded  products   include  an
electrosurgical generator,  sterile  single  application  LEEP  Electrodes,  the
CooperSurgical  Smoke  Evacuation  System 6080'tm',  a  single  application LEEP
RediKit'r', a  series of  educational video  tapes and  a line  of  autoclavable
coated LEEP surgical instruments.
 
     CooperSurgical's mail order catalog offers a broad line of products for use
in  diagnostic and surgical  gynecologic procedures. Many  of these products are
exclusive to  CooperSurgical including  the  newly introduced  Prima  Series'tm'
nonconductive  specula, the  Carter Tubal  Assistant'tm' instrument  designed to
reduce the operating time needed to perform post-partum tubal ligation, The RUMI
System'tm' uterine manipulator, the Cer-View'tm' Lateral Wall Retractor and  the
Vu-Max'tm'  Speculum incorporating a  new design in  LEEP procedure instruments.
The catalog includes  CooperSurgical's Euro-Med'r'  'Signature' series  cervical
biopsy punches and instrument care and sterilization systems. The CooperSurgical
catalog  added the  Unimar products including  the Pipelle'r', Cervex-Brush'tm',
Kronner Manipujector'r'  and the  patented J-Neddle'tm'  for use  in closure  of
trocar incisions.
 
     In  April 1996,  the Company acquired  Unimar, Inc., a  leading provider of
specialized disposable medical  devices for gynecology.  Unimar offers  products
for  endometrial tissue sampling for infertility and the diagnosis of cancer and
its precursors, cytological sampling, uterine control during tubal ligation  and
minimally invasive laparoscopy.
 
     CooperSurgical's  Frigitronics'r'  instruments  for  cryosurgery  are  used
primarily in  dermatologic  procedures  to treat  skin  cancers,  in  ophthalmic
procedures  to treat  retinal detachments and  remove cataracts,  and in certain
gynecologic,  cardiovascular  and  general  surgical  procedures.  The   primary
products  bearing  the  Frigitronics'r'  brand  name  are  the  Model  310  Zoom
Colposcope, the CCS-200 Cardiac Cryosurgical  System, the Model 2000  Ophthalmic
Cryosurgical System and the Cryo-Plus System for gynecologic office procedures.
 
     In  1995,  CooperSurgical  acquired  the  RUMI'tm'  uterine  manipulator, a
patented system  for  controlling and  positioning  the uterus  during  surgery.
RUMI'tm'  product line extensions include  the KOH Colpotomizer System'tm' which
facilitates laparoscopic hysterectomy  surgical procedures.  This system,  which
recently received FDA approval, will be introduced in the first quarter of 1997.
Compared  to  competing products,  these new  CooperSurgical products  offer the
gynecologist substantially improved pelvic exposure, access and traction  during
laparoscopic surgery and facilitate dye injection during fertility studies.
 
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA
 
     Hospital   Group  of  America,  Inc.   ('HGA'),  owns  and  operates  three
psychiatric facilities: Hartgrove Hospital in Chicago, Illinois (which currently
has 119  licensed  beds),  Hampton  Hospital  in  Rancocas,  New  Jersey  (which
currently has 100 licensed beds) and MeadowWood Hospital in New Castle, Delaware
(which currently has 50 licensed beds).
 
 



     HGA's psychiatric facilities provide intensive and structured treatment for
children,  adolescents and adults  suffering from a  variety of mental illnesses
and/or chemical  dependencies,  including  treatment for  women,  older  adults,
survivors  of psychological trauma  and alcohol and  substance abusers. Services
include comprehensive psychiatric and chemical dependency evaluations, inpatient
and outpatient treatment and partial hospitalization.
 
     In response to  market demands for  an expanded continuum  of care, HGA  is
further  developing its outpatient and partial hospitalization programs. Several
facilities offer ambulatory programs to children, adolescents and adults. During
1996, the  number  of ambulatory  programs  was  increased to  11  at  Hartgrove
Hospital,  5  at  MeadowWood  Hospital and  5  at  Hampton  Hospital. Additional
programs are expected to be initiated in 1997 that will emphasize a continuum of
care services.
 
     In May 1996, the Company acquired land and an existing structure in  Kouts,
Indiana,  for development of a 50 bed residential treatment center. Construction
and renovations are underway with a projected opening in mid fiscal 1997.
 
     Additionally,  HGA  continues  to  provide  behavioral  health   management
services.  In 1996, the Company was awarded several contracts for the management
of ambulatory  programs.  In 1997,  HGA  will pursue  management  contracts  for
inpatient behavioral health units in medical/surgical hospitals.
 
     The  following  is a  comparison of  certain  statistical data  relating to
inpatient treatment for  fiscal years 1996,  1995 and 1994  for the  psychiatric
facilities owned by HGA:
 

 
     Each  psychiatric  facility  is  accredited  by  the  Joint  Commission  of
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), a national organization which
periodically undertakes a comprehensive review of a facility's staff,  programs,
physical plant and policies and procedures for purposes of accreditation of such
healthcare facility. Accreditation generally is required for patients to receive
insurance  company  reimbursement  and  for  participation  by  the  facility in
government sponsored provider programs.
 
     Until December  31, 1995,  a  medical group  not  affiliated with  HGA  was
responsible  for providing both clinical and clinical administrative services at
Hampton Hospital. In December  1995, the Company announced  the settlement of  a
dispute with the management of that medical group. (See Note 4.)(1)
 
     Patient  and Third Party Payments. HGA receives payment for its psychiatric
services either  from  patients,  from  their health  insurers  or  through  the
Medicare, Medicaid and Civilian Health and Medical Program of Uniformed Services
('CHAMPUS')  governmental programs. Medicare is a federal program which entitles
persons 65 and over to a lifetime benefit  of up to 190 days as an inpatient  in
an  acute psychiatric facility. Persons defined  as disabled, regardless of age,
also receive  this  benefit. Medicaid  is  a  joint federal  and  state  program
available  to persons  with limited  financial resources.  CHAMPUS is  a federal
program  which  provides  health  insurance  for  active  and  retired  military
personnel and their dependents.
 
     While  other programs may  exist or be  adopted in different jurisdictions,
the following  four  categories  reflect  the primary  methods  by  which  HGA's
facilities receive payment for services:
 
          (a)  Standard  reimbursement, consisting  of  payment by  patients and
     their health insurers, is  based on a facility's  schedule of rates and  is
     not subject to negotiation with insurance companies, competitive bidding or
     governmental limitation.
 
- ------------
     (1)  All references to  Note numbers shall  constitute the incorporation by
reference  of  the  text  of  the  specific  Note  contained  in  the  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial Statements of the Company and its subsidiaries contained
in the Company's  1996 Annual  Report, which  notes are  incorporated herein  by
reference to Item 8, into the Item number in which it appears.
 
 



          (b)  Negotiated rate reimbursement is at prices established in advance
     by negotiation or competitive bidding for contracts with insurers and other
     payors such  as managed  care companies,  health maintenance  organizations
     ('HMO'), preferred provider organizations ('PPO') and similar organizations
     which can provide a reasonable number of referrals.
 
          (c)  Cost-based reimbursement is  predicated on the  allowable cost of
     services, plus, in  certain cases,  an incentive payment  where costs  fall
     below  a target  rate. It  is used by  Medicare, Medicaid  and certain Blue
     Cross insurance programs to provide reimbursement in amounts lower than the
     standard or negotiated schedule of rates in effect at an HGA facility.
 
          (d) CHAMPUS reimbursement is at either (1) regionally set rates, (2) a
     national rate adjusted  upward periodically  on the basis  of the  Medicare
     Market  Basket  Index or  (3)  a fixed  discount  rate per  day  at certain
     facilities where CHAMPUS contracts with a benefit administration group.
 
     The Medicare, Medicaid and  CHAMPUS programs are  subject to statutory  and
regulatory  changes  and interpretations,  utilization reviews  and governmental
funding restrictions, all of which  may materially increase or decrease  program
payments  and the cost of providing services,  as well as the timing of payments
to the facilities.
 
     Limits on Reimbursement. Changes in government reimbursement programs  have
resulted in limitations on increases in, and in some cases in reduced levels of,
reimbursement  for healthcare services, and  additional changes are anticipated.
Such changes  are  likely to  result  in further  limitations  on  reimbursement
levels. In addition, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly
are demanding discounted fee structures. Inpatient hospital utilization, average
lengths  of  stay and  occupancy  rates continue  to  be negatively  affected by
payor-required pre-admission authorization and  utilization review and by  payor
pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for
less  acutely ill patients.  In addition, efforts  to impose reduced allowances,
greater discounts  and more  stringent  cost controls  by government  and  other
payors  are expected to continue. Although the  Company is unable to predict the
effect these changes  will have  on its operations,  as the  number of  patients
covered  by managed  care payors increases,  significant limits on  the scope of
services reimbursed and  on reimbursement rates  and fees could  have a  further
adverse effect on HGA's business and earnings.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     During the fiscal years ended October 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, expenditures
for  Company-sponsored research and development  were $1,176,000, $2,914,000 and
$4,407,000, respectively.  The Company  decided to  discontinue development  and
outlicensing  of  its  calcium  channel blocker  compound.  During  fiscal 1996,
CooperVision   incurred   approximately   67%   and   CooperSurgical    incurred
approximately  33%  of  total research  and  development.  No customer-sponsored
research and development has been conducted.
 
     The  Company  employs  11  people  in  its  research  and  development  and
manufacturing engineering departments. Product development and clinical research
for  CooperVision products are supported by  outside specialists in lens design,
formulation science, polymer chemistry,  microbiology and biochemistry.  Product
research and development for CooperSurgical is conducted in-house and by outside
surgical  specialists, including members of both the CooperSurgical and Euro-Med
surgical advisory boards.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Healthcare Products. The development, testing, production and marketing  of
the  Company's healthcare products are subject to the authority of the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration ('FDA')  and other federal agencies  as well as  foreign
ministries of health. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other statutes
and   regulations   govern  the   testing,  manufacturing,   labeling,  storage,
advertising and  promotion  of  such  products.  Noncompliance  with  applicable
regulations  can  result  in fines,  product  recall or  seizure,  suspension of
production and criminal prosecution.
 
     The Company is  currently developing and  marketing medical devices,  which
are   subject  to  different  levels  of   FDA  regulation  depending  upon  the
classification of the device. Class III devices, such as
 
 



flexible and extended wear contact  lenses, require extensive premarket  testing
and   approval  procedures,  while  Class  I  and  II  devices  are  subject  to
substantially lower levels of regulation.
 
     A multi-step procedure must be completed  before a new contact lens can  be
sold  commercially. Data must be compiled on the chemistry and toxicology of the
lens, its microbiological  profile and the  proposed manufacturing process.  All
data  generated must be submitted to the FDA in support of an application for an
Investigational Device Exemption. Once granted, clinical trials may be initiated
subject to the review and approval of an Institutional Review Board and, where a
lens is determined to be a significant risk device, the FDA. Upon completion  of
clinical trials, a Premarket Approval Application must be submitted and approved
by the FDA before commercialization may begin.
 
     The  Company, in  connection with  some of  its new  surgical products, can
submit premarket notification to the FDA under an expedited procedure known as a
510(k) application, which is available for any product that can be  demonstrated
to  be substantially equivalent to  a device marketed prior  to May 28, 1976. If
the new product is not substantially  equivalent to a pre-existing device or  if
the FDA were to reject a claim of substantial equivalence, extensive preclinical
and clinical testing would be required, additional costs would be incurred and a
substantial delay would occur before the product could be brought to market.
 
     FDA  and  state  regulations  also require  adherence  to  applicable 'good
manufacturing practices' ('GMP'), which  mandate detailed quality assurance  and
record-keeping  procedures. In conjunction therewith,  the Company is subject to
unscheduled periodic  regulatory  inspections. The  Company  believes it  is  in
substantial compliance with GMP regulations.
 
     The  Company also  is subject  to foreign  regulatory authorities governing
human clinical trials and pharmaceutical/medical  device sales that vary  widely
from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval
of  a product by comparable regulatory  authorities of foreign countries must be
obtained before  products  may be  marketed  in those  countries.  The  approval
process  varies from country to country, and  the time required may be longer or
shorter than that required for FDA approval.
 
     The procedures  described above  involve  the expenditure  of  considerable
resources  and usually result in a  substantial time lag between the development
of a new  product and its  introduction into  the marketplace. There  can be  no
assurance  that all necessary approvals  will be obtained, or  that they will be
obtained in a time frame that allows the product to be introduced for commercial
sale in a  timely manner.  Furthermore, product  approvals may  be withdrawn  if
compliance  with regulatory  standards is  not maintained  or if  problems occur
after marketing has begun.
 
     Healthcare  Services.  The  healthcare  services  industry  is  subject  to
substantial  federal, state and local  regulation. Government regulation affects
the Company's business by controlling the use of its properties and  controlling
reimbursement   for  services  provided.   Licensing,  certification  and  other
applicable governmental regulations vary  from jurisdiction to jurisdiction  and
are revised periodically.
 
     The  Company's facilities  must comply  with the  licensing requirements of
federal, state and local health agencies and with the requirements of  municipal
building  codes, health codes  and local fire department  codes. In granting and
renewing a  facility's license,  a state  health agency  considers, among  other
things,   the   condition  of   the  physical   buildings  and   equipment,  the
qualifications of  the  administrative  personnel and  professional  staff,  the
quality of professional and other services and the continuing compliance of such
facility with applicable laws and regulations.
 
     The states in which the Company operates hospital facilities have in effect
certificate  of  need  statutes.  State certificate  of  need  statutes provide,
generally, that  prior to  the construction  of new  healthcare facilities,  the
addition  of new beds or the introduction of  a new service, a state agency must
determine that  a  need  exists  for  those  facilities,  beds  or  services.  A
certificate  of  need  is generally  issued  for  a specific  maximum  amount of
expenditures or number  of beds or  types of  services to be  provided, and  the
holder is generally required to implement the approved project within a specific
time  period. Certificate  of need  issuances for  new facilities  are extremely
competitive, often with several applicants for a single certificate of need.
 
     All of HGA's facilities are certified or approved as providers under one or
more of  the  Medicaid  or  Medicare programs.  In  order  to  receive  Medicare
reimbursement, each facility must meet the applicable
 
 



conditions  promulgated  by the  United States  Department  of Health  and Human
Services relating to the type of facility, its equipment, its personnel and  its
standards of patient care.
 
     The  Social Security Act contains a number of provisions designed to ensure
that services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid patients are medically necessary
and  meet  professionally  recognized  standards.  Those  provisions  include  a
requirement  that  admissions of  Medicare and  Medicaid patients  to healthcare
facilities must  be  reviewed  in  a timely  manner  to  determine  the  medical
necessity  of the  admissions. In addition,  the Peer Review  Improvement Act of
1982 provides  that  a  healthcare  facility may  be  required  by  the  federal
government  to reimburse the  government for the  cost of Medicare-paid services
determined by a peer review organization to have been medically unnecessary.
 
     Various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers
of healthcare services  and physicians. Among  these laws are  the Medicare  and
Medicaid  Anti-Fraud  and Abuse  Amendments to  the  Social Security  Act, which
prohibit individuals  or  entities participating  in  the Medicare  or  Medicaid
programs  from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving
'remuneration' (which includes anything of  value) in order to induce  referrals
for  items or services reimbursed under  those programs. Sanctions for violating
the Amendments include criminal penalties  and civil sanctions, including  fines
and  possible exclusion  from the Medicare  and Medicaid  programs. In addition,
Section 1877 of the Social Security Act was amended, effective January 1,  1995,
to  significantly broaden  the prohibitions against  physicians making referrals
under Medicare and Medicaid programs to providers with which the physicians have
financial arrangements. Many  states have adopted,  or are considering,  similar
legislative proposals, some of which (including statutes in effect in New Jersey
and Illinois) extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs to all healthcare
services.
 
     In  addition,  specific laws  exist that  regulate  certain aspects  of the
Company's business, such as the commitment of patients to psychiatric  hospitals
and  disclosure  of information  regarding patients  being treated  for chemical
dependency. Many states  have adopted a  'patient's bill of  rights' which  sets
forth  standards for dealing  with issues such  as use of  the least restrictive
treatment, patient confidentiality, patient access to telephones, mail and legal
counsel and requiring the patient to be treated with dignity.
 
     Healthcare Reform. In  recent years,  an increasing  number of  legislative
initiatives   have  been  introduced  or  proposed  in  Congress  and  in  state
legislatures that would effect  major changes in  the healthcare system,  either
nationally  or at the  state level. Among the  proposals under consideration are
price  controls  on  hospitals,  insurance   market  reforms  to  increase   the
availability  of group health  insurance to small  businesses, requirements that
all businesses  offer  health insurance  coverage  to their  employees  and  the
creation  of a government  health insurance plan  or plans that  would cover all
citizens. There continue to be efforts at the federal level to introduce various
insurance market reforms, expanded fraud and abuse and anti-referral legislation
and further reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement. A broad range  of
both  similar and more comprehensive healthcare  reform initiatives is likely to
be considered at the  state level. It  is uncertain which, if  any, of these  or
other  proposals will  be adopted.  The Company  cannot predict  the effect such
reforms or the  prospect of  their enactment  may have  on the  business of  the
Company and its subsidiaries.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     In  general,  raw materials  required  by CooperVision  consist  of various
polymers and packaging materials. Alternative sources of all of these  materials
are  available.  Raw  materials  used by  CooperSurgical  or  its  suppliers are
generally available  from  a  variety  of  sources.  Products  manufactured  for
CooperSurgical  are  generally available  from  more than  one  source. However,
because   some   products   require   specialized   manufacturing    procedures,
CooperSurgical   could   experience  inventory   shortages  if   an  alternative
manufacturer had to be secured on short notice.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Healthcare Products. In the United States and Canada, CooperVision  markets
its   products   through  its   field   sales  representatives,   who   call  on
ophthalmologists, optometrists,  opticians and  optical  chains. In  the  United
States, field sales representatives also call on distributors.
 
 



     CooperSurgical's   products  are   marketed  worldwide  by   a  network  of
independent sales  representatives and  distributors, and  additionally, in  the
United States through a direct mail catalog program.
 
     Healthcare   Services.  HGA's  marketing  concept  aims  to  position  each
psychiatric facility  as  the provider  of  the highest  quality  mental  health
services  in its marketplace. HGA employs  a combination of general advertising,
toll-free  'help  lines,'  community   education  programs  and   facility-based
continuing  education programs  to underscore the  facility's value  as a mental
health resource center. HGA's marketing emphasizes discrete programs for  select
illnesses  or  disorders  because  of its  belief  that  marketing  with program
differentiation will  be valuable  to a  referral source  seeking treatment  for
specific  disorders. Referral  sources include  psychiatrists, other physicians,
psychologists, social  workers,  school  guidance  counselors,  police,  courts,
clergy, care-provider organizations and former patients.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS
 
     TCC  owns or licenses a  variety of domestic and  foreign patents which, in
the aggregate, are material to its  businesses. Unexpired terms of TCC's  United
States patents range from less than one year to a maximum of 17 years.
 
     As  indicated in the references to such  products in this Item 1, the names
of certain of  TCC's products are  protected by trademark  registrations in  the
United  States Patent  and Trademark Office  and, in some  instances, in foreign
trademark offices as  well. Applications  are pending  for additional  trademark
registrations.  TCC considers these  trademarks to be  valuable because of their
contribution to the market identification of its various products.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON CUSTOMERS
 
     No material portion of TCC's businesses is dependent upon any one  customer
or  upon any one  affiliated group of customers.  However, approximately 23% and
30%, respectively, of  HGA's fiscal 1996  net patient revenue  was generated  by
Medicaid and Medicare.
 
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     No  material portion  of TCC's  businesses is  subject to  renegotiation of
profits or  termination of  contracts or  subcontracts at  the election  of  the
United States government.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Each  of TCC's businesses operates within a highly competitive environment.
Competition  in  the  healthcare  industry   revolves  around  the  search   for
technological  and  therapeutic  innovations in  the  prevention,  diagnosis and
treatment of illness or disease. TCC competes primarily on the basis of  product
quality,   program   differentiation,   technological   benefit,   service   and
reliability, as perceived by medical professionals.
 
     Healthcare Products. Numerous companies are engaged in the development  and
manufacture  of contact lenses. CooperVision competes  primarily on the basis of
product quality, service and reputation  among medical professionals and by  its
participation  in specialty niche markets. It has been, and continues to be, the
sponsor of clinical lens studies intended to generate information leading to the
improvement of  CooperVision's  lenses  from  a medical  point  of  view.  Major
competitors have greater financial resources and larger research and development
and sales forces than CooperVision. Furthermore, many of these competitors offer
a  greater range of  contact lenses, plus  a variety of  other eyecare products,
including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them
a competitive  advantage  in marketing  their  lenses to  high  volume  contract
accounts.
 
     In   the  surgical  segment,  competitive  factors  are  technological  and
scientific advances,  product  quality,  price and  effective  communication  of
product information to physicians and hospitals. CooperSurgical believes that it
benefits,  in part, from the technological advantages of certain of its products
and from the  ongoing development  of new  medical procedures,  which creates  a
market  for equipment and instruments specifically  tailored for use in such new
procedures. CooperSurgical
 
 



competes by focusing on distinct  niche markets and supplying medical  personnel
working  in those  markets with  equipment, instruments  and disposable products
that are high in quality and that, with respect to certain procedures, enable  a
medical practitioner to obtain from one source all of the equipment, instruments
and  disposable products required to  perform such procedures. As CooperSurgical
develops products to be  used in the performance  of new medical procedures,  it
offers  training to medical professionals in the performance of such procedures.
CooperSurgical competes with  a number  of manufacturers  in each  of its  niche
markets,   including  larger  manufacturers  that  have  greater  financial  and
personnel resources and sell a substantially larger number of product lines.
 
     Healthcare Services. In most areas in  which HGA operates, there are  other
psychiatric  facilities  that provide  services comparable  to those  offered by
HGA's  facilities.  Some   of  those  facilities   are  owned  by   governmental
organizations,  not-for-profit organizations or  investor-owned companies having
substantially greater resources than HGA and, in some cases, tax-exempt  status.
Psychiatric  facilities  frequently  draw  patients  from  areas  outside  their
immediate locale,  therefore, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities compete  with  both
local  and distant facilities. In  addition, psychiatric facilities compete with
psychiatric units in  acute care hospitals.  HGA's strategy is  to develop  high
quality  programs designed to  target specific disorders and  to retain a highly
qualified professional staff.
 
BACKLOG
 
     TCC does not consider backlog to be a material factor in its businesses.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     HGA's psychiatric facilities experience a decline in occupancy rates during
the summer months when school is not in session and during the year-end  holiday
season. CVI's contact lens sales in the first fiscal quarter are generally lower
than subsequent quarters due to fewer patient visits during the holiday season.
 
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
 
     Federal,  state and local provisions  regulating the discharge of materials
into  the  environment,  or  otherwise   relating  to  the  protection  of   the
environment,  do  not  currently  have  a  material  effect  upon  TCC's capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
WORKING CAPITAL
 
     TCC's  businesses   have  not   required  any   material  working   capital
arrangements in the past five years.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
     Note  13 sets  forth financial information  with respect  to TCC's business
segments. Operations outside the United States are immaterial.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     On October 31, 1996, TCC and its subsidiaries employed approximately  1,100
persons.  In  addition, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities are  staffed  by licensed
physicians who  have  been  admitted  to the  medical  staff  of  an  individual
facility.  Certain of  those physicians are  not employees of  HGA. TCC believes
that its relations with its employees are good.
 
 



ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The following are TCC's principal facilities as of December 31, 1996:
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) The Company entered into sublease agreements  on December 9, 1994 and  March
    18,  1996, pursuant to  which it has subleased  to a third  party all of its
    Fort Lee,  New  Jersey, office  space  at a  combined  annual base  rent  of
    $173,000  until March  31, 2000.  The subtenant has  an option  to renew the
    subleases for an additional five years.
 
(2) Outstanding loans, totaling $10,675,000 as of October 31, 1996, were secured
    by these properties.
 
(3) Includes utilities, common area charges and taxes.
 
                            ------------------------
     The Company  believes its  properties  are suitable  and adequate  for  its
businesses.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The  Company is a  defendant in a  number of legal  actions relating to its
past or  present businesses  in which  plaintiffs are  seeking damages.  In  the
opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, the ultimate disposition
of  those actions will not materially affect the Company's financial position or
results of operations.
 
     In January 1994, the Company was found  guilty on six counts of mail  fraud
and  one count  of wire  fraud based  upon the  conduct of  a former Co-Chairman
relating to a 'trading scheme' to 'frontrun' high yield bond purchases, but  was
acquitted  of charges  of conspiracy and  aiding and abetting  violations of the
Investment Advisers Act. The  Company was sentenced on  July 15, 1994, at  which
time  it was ordered  to make restitution  to Keystone Custodian  Funds, Inc. of
$1,310,166, which was paid August 15,
 
 



1994. In addition,  the Company was  ordered to pay  a noninterest bearing  fine
over the next three years in the amount of $1,831,568. Payments of $350,000 each
were  made in 1995 and 1996 with  an additional payment of $1,131,568 payable on
July 15, 1997. These amounts were charged against net income in previous  fiscal
years.  Also the  Company settled  in December 1994  a related  SEC action under
which the Company agreed to the disgorgement of $1,621,474 and the payment of  a
civil  penalty of  $1,150,000. The Company  had already  disgorged $1,310,166 in
connection with the sentence imposed in a related criminal action involving  the
'frontrunning'  arrangement; the balance of the disgorgement was paid in January
1995. The civil  penalty imposed by  the SEC was  offset by the  larger fine  to
which the Company was sentenced in the criminal action.
 
     The  Company was named  as a nominal defendant  in a stockholder derivative
action entitled  Harry Lewis  and Gary  Goldberg v.  Gary A.  Singer, Steven  G.
Singer,  Arthur C. Bass, Joseph C. Feghali, Warren J. Keegan, Robert S. Holcombe
and Robert S. Weiss, which was filed on  May 27, 1992 in the Court of  Chancery,
State  of Delaware, New  Castle County. Lewis  and Goldberg subsequently amended
their complaint,  and  the  Delaware Chancery  Court  consolidated  the  amended
complaint  with a  similar complaint  filed by  another plaintiff  as In  re The
Cooper Companies,  Inc.  Litigation,  Consolidated C.A.  12584.  The  Lewis  and
Goldberg  amended  complaint  was  designated as  the  operative  complaint (the
'Derivative Complaint'). The Derivative Complaint alleges that certain directors
of the Company and  Gary A. Singer,  as Co-Chairman of  the Board of  Directors,
caused  or allowed the Company to be a party to a 'trading scheme' to 'frontrun'
high yield  bond purchases  by the  Keystone Custodian  Fund, Inc.,  a group  of
mutual funds. The Derivative Complaint also alleges that the defendants violated
their  fiduciary duties to  the Company by  not vigorously investigating certain
allegations of  securities fraud.  The Derivative  Complaint requests  that  the
Court  order the defendants (other than the Company) to pay damages and expenses
to the Company and certain  of the defendants to  disgorge their profits to  the
Company.  The parties have been engaged in  negotiations and had agreed upon the
terms of a  settlement. Although the  proposed settlement was  submitted to  the
Court for approval following notice to the Company's stockholders and a hearing,
Plaintiffs  have decided not to proceed with the settlement in its present form,
and the parties have reopened settlement discussions. There can be no  assurance
that  the current discussions will ultimately end the litigation. The individual
defendants have  advised the  Company that  they believe  they have  meritorious
defenses  to the lawsuit and that, in the event the case proceeds to trial, they
intend to defend vigorously against the allegations in the Derivative Complaint.
 
     The Company  was  also  named  as a  nominal  defendant  in  a  stockholder
derivative action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. Gary A. Singer, Steven G. Singer,
Brad  C. Singer, Dorothy Singer as the Executrix of the Estate of Martin Singer,
Karen Sue Singer,  Norma Singer  Brandes, Normel Construction  Corp., Brandes  &
Singer, and Romulus Holdings, Inc., which was filed on June 6, 1995 in the Court
of  Chancery  of the  State of  Delaware,  New Castle  County. The  complaint is
similar to a derivative complaint filed by  Mr. Sturman in the Supreme Court  of
the  State of New York on May 26, 1992, which was dismissed under New York Civil
Practice Rule 327(a) on August 17, 1993. The dismissal of the New York case  was
affirmed  by the Appellate  Division on March  28, 1995. The  allegations in the
Delaware complaint filed by Mr. Sturman  relate to substantially the same  facts
and  events at issue  in In re  The Cooper Companies,  Inc. Litigation described
above, and similar relief is sought.  The parties had agreed that Mr.  Sturman's
Delaware  action would be  consolidated into and tentatively  settled with In re
The Cooper Companies, Inc. Litigation.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were  submitted during the  fourth quarter of  fiscal 1996 to  a
vote of the Company's security holders.
 
 



                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The  Company's common stock is traded on  The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
and the Pacific Stock  Exchange Incorporated. No cash  dividends were paid  with
respect to the common stock in fiscal 1996 or 1995.
 
     The  indenture, dated as of March 1,  1985, governing the Company's 10 5/8%
Convertible Subordinated  Reset Debentures  Due 2005,  as amended  by the  First
Supplemental  Indenture dated  as of June  29, 1989 and  the Second Supplemental
Indenture dated as of January 6, 1994, and the indenture dated as of January  6,
1994  governing the  Company's 10%  Senior Subordinated  Secured Notes  due 2003
(collectively, the 'Indentures'), prohibit the payment of cash dividends on  the
Company's  common stock unless  (i) no defaults  exist or would  exist under the
Indentures, (ii)  the Company's  Cash Flow  Coverage Ratio  (as defined  in  the
Indentures)  for the most recently  ended four full fiscal  quarters has been at
least 1.5 to 1, and (iii) such cash dividend, together with the aggregate of all
other Restricted Payments (as defined in  the Indentures), is less than the  sum
of 50% of the Company's cumulative net income plus the proceeds of certain sales
of  the Company's or  its subsidiaries' capital stock  subsequent to February 1,
1994. The Company  does not anticipate,  in the foreseeable  future paying  cash
dividends on its common stock.
 
     Common stock price range:

 
     At  December  31,  1996  and  1995,  there  were  2,845  and  3,067  common
stockholders of record, respectively.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The information required for this item is contained under the caption 'Five
Year Financial Highlights,' in the Company's 1996 Annual Report to  Stockholders
which  is incorporated herein by reference and is included as Exhibit 13 to this
Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.
 
     The information  required for  this  item is  contained under  the  caption
'Management's  Discussion  and Analysis  of Financial  Condition and  Results of
Operations' in  the  Company's 1996  Annual  Report to  Stockholders,  which  is
incorporated herein by reference and  is included  as  Exhibit 13 to  this  Form
10-K.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
 
     The information  required for  this  item is  included under  the  captions
'Consolidated   Balance  Sheets,'   'Consolidated  Statements   of  Operations,'
'Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  (Deficit),'  'Consolidated
Statements  of  Cash Flows,'  'Notes to  Consolidated Financial  Statements' and
'Independent  Auditors'  Report'  in  the   Company's  1996  Annual  Report   to
Stockholders,  which  is incorporated  herein by  reference  and is  included as
Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     Not applicable.
 
 



                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     The information contained  under the  heading 'Election  of Directors'  and
'Executive  Officers of the  Company,' in the Company's  Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting  of  Stockholders scheduled  to  be held  on  March 25,  1997  is
incorporated herein by reference with respect to each of the Company's directors
and the executive officers who are not also directors of the Company.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     The  information contained  under the  sub-heading 'Executive Compensation'
and 'Compensation of Directors,' of the  'Election of Directors' section of  the
Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be
held  on March 25, 1997 is incorporated  herein by reference with respect to the
Company's chief executive  officer and  the four other  most highly  compensated
executive officers of the Company and the directors.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     The  information  contained  under  the  sub-headings  'Securities  Held by
Management' and  'Principal  Securityholders'  of the  'Election  of  Directors'
section  of the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on March 25, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference  with
respect to certain beneficial owners, the directors and management.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     The  information contained under the sub-heading 'Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions' of the  'Election of Directors'  section of the  Company's
Proxy  Statement for the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders scheduled to be held on
March 25, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (a) Documents filed as part of this report:
 
          1. Financial Statements of the Company.
 
             The Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the
        Independent Auditors' Report on the  foregoing, such items contained  in
        the  Company's 1996 Annual Report  to Stockholders which is incorporated
        herein by reference and is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.
 
          2. Accountants' Consent and Report on Schedule.
 
          3. Financial Statement Schedules of the Company.
 

 
          All other  schedules for  which provision  is made  in the  applicable
     accounting  regulations of the  Securities and Exchange  Commission are not
     required  under  the  related  instructions  or  are  not  applicable  and,
     therefore, have been omitted.
 
          Also included herein are separate company financial statements and the
     notes  thereto,  the  Independent  Auditors'  Report  thereon  and required
     financial statement schedules of:
 
          Hospital Group of America,  Inc. and Subsidiaries and  CooperSurgical,
     Inc.
 





                  ACCOUNTANTS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE
 
The Board of Directors
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
 
     The   audits  of  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and  subsidiaries referred to  in our report  dated December  9,
1996,  which is incorporated herein by reference, included the related financial
statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year period ended  October
31,  1996 as listed in Item 14 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. This financial
statement schedule  is  the  responsibility of  the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to  express an opinion  on this  financial statement schedule
based on our  audits. In our  opinion, such financial  statement schedule,  when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole,  presents  fairly  in all  material  respects the  information  set forth
therein.
 
     We consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement Nos.
33-50016 and 33-11298  on Form  S-3 and Registration  Statement Nos.  333-10997,
33-27938, 33-36325 and 33-36326 on Form S-8 of The Cooper Companies, Inc. of our
reports  dated December 9, 1996, relating  to the consolidated balance sheets of
The Cooper Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1996 and 1995  and
the   related  consolidated  statements   of  operations,  stockholders'  equity
(deficit) and cash flows for  each of the years  in the three-year period  ended
October  31, 1996, and  related schedule, and  of our reports  dated December 3,
1996 relating to the consolidated balance  sheets of Hospital Group of  America,
Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as  of  October  31,  1996  and  1995  and  the related
consolidated statements  of operations,  stockholder's equity  (deficiency)  and
cash  flows for  each of the  years in  the three-year period  ended October 31,
1996, and related schedule, and the balance sheets of CooperSurgical, Inc. as of
October  31,  1996  and   1995  and  the   related  statements  of   operations,
stockholders'  equity (deficit)  and cash  flows for  each of  the years  in the
three-year period ended October  31, 1996, and  related schedule, which  reports
appear in or are incorporated by reference in the October 31, 1996 Annual Report
on Form 10-K of The Cooper Companies, Inc.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
San Francisco, California
January 24, 1997
 





                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, recovered accounts receivable previously
    written off and other items.
 





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
Board of Directors
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.:
 
     We  have audited the  accompanying consolidated balance  sheets of Hospital
Group of America,  Inc., (a  wholly owned  subsidiary of  The Cooper  Companies,
Inc.)  and subsidiaries ('HGA') as of October 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements  of operations,  stockholder's equity  (deficiency)  and
cash  flows for  each of the  years in the  three year period  ended October 31,
1996. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also audited  financial  statement  Schedule II.  These  consolidated  financial
statements  and  financial statement  schedule are  the responsibility  of HGA's
management. Our responsibility is  to express an  opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We  conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In  our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to above
present fairly, in  all material  respects, the financial  position of  Hospital
Group  of America, Inc. and  subsidiaries at October 31,  1996 and 1995, and the
results of their operations, and their cash  flows for each of the years in  the
three  year period ended October 31,  1996 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also,  in our  opinion, the  related financial  statement
schedule,  when  considered  in  relation to  the  basic  consolidated financial
statements taken as  a whole,  presents fairly,  in all  material respects,  the
information set forth therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
December 3, 1996
 





               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           OCTOBER 31, 1996 AND 1995
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 





               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY (DEFICIENCY)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 





               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Business  -- The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Hospital Group of America,  Inc. (HGA) a wholly-owned subsidiary  of
The  Cooper  Companies,  Inc.  ('Cooper'  or  'Parent')  and  its  wholly  owned
subsidiaries (the 'Company').  All intercompany balances  and transactions  have
been  eliminated.  The  Company  owns  and  operates  the  following psychiatric
facilities (the 'Facilities'):
 

 
     Net Patient Service Revenue -- Net  patient service revenue is recorded  at
the  estimated  net realizable  amounts from  patients,  third party  payors and
others for services rendered, including estimated retroactive adjustments  under
reimbursement  agreements with  third-party payors.  Retroactive adjustments are
accrued on an estimated  basis in the period  the related services are  rendered
and  adjusted in  the period  as final settlements  are determined.  In 1996 and
1995, HGA  received  and  recognized approximately  $2,000,000  and  $2,400,000,
respectively, associated with prior year cost report settlements.
 
     With  respect to net service  revenue, receivables from government programs
represent the only concentrated group of  potential credit risk to the  Company.
Management  does not  believe that  there are  any credit  risks associated with
these governmental  agencies.  Negotiated  and private  receivables  consist  of
receivables  from  various  payors, including  individuals  involved  in diverse
activities, subject to differing economic  conditions, and do not represent  any
concentrated  credit risks  to the Company.  Furthermore, management continually
monitors and,  where indicated,  adjusts the  allowances associated  with  these
receivables.
 
     Charity  Care --  The Company provides  care to indigent  patients who meet
certain criteria under its charity care policy without charge or at amounts less
than its established rates.  Because the Company does  not pursue collection  of
amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported as revenue.
The  Company maintains records to identify and monitor the level of charity care
it provides. These records include the  amount of charges foregone for  services
and  supplies furnished under its charity  care policy. Charges at the Company's
established rates foregone for charity care provided by the Company amounted  to
$2,275,431,  $2,142,000 and  $2,498,000 for  1996, 1995  and 1994, respectively.
Hampton Hospital is required by its Certificate  of Need to incur not less  than
10% of total patient days as free care.
 
     Health  Insurance Coverage  -- The Company  is self-insured  for the health
insurance coverage  offered  to  its  employees.  The  provision  for  estimated
self-insured  health  insurance  costs includes  management's  estimates  of the
ultimate costs for both reported claims and claims incurred but not reported.
 
     Supplies -- Supplies consist principally of medical supplies and are stated
at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
     Property and  Equipment  -- Property  and  equipment are  stated  at  cost.
Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  method over the estimated useful
lives of the respective assets,  which range from 20  to 40 years for  buildings
and improvements and 5 to 10 years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
     Goodwill  -- Goodwill  is amortized  on a  straight-line basis  over thirty
years. Goodwill  is reviewed  for impairment  whenever events  or  circumstances
provide  evidence that suggest that  the carrying amount of  goodwill may not be
recoverable.  The   Company  assesses   the   recoverability  of   goodwill   by
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
determining  whether the amortization of the goodwill balance over its remaining
life can be recovered through reasonably expected undiscounted future results.
 
     Other Assets --  Loan fees  incurred in obtaining  long-term financing  are
deferred and recorded as other assets. Loan fees are amortized over the terms of
the related loans. The balance of unamortized loan fees amounted to $149,000 and
$258,000 respectively, at October 31, 1996 and 1995.
 
     Income  Taxes --  The Company  is included  in the  consolidated income tax
returns of  the Parent.  The consolidated  federal, state  and local  taxes  are
subject  to  a tax  sharing  agreement under  which  the Company's  liability is
computed on a non-consolidated basis using a combined rate of 40%.
 
     Statement of Financial Standards No. 109 'Accounting for Income Taxes' (FAS
109) was adopted  by the Company  in 1994. FAS  109 required a  change from  the
deferred  method  to the  asset and  liability method  of accounting  for income
taxes.  Under  the  asset  and  liability  method,  deferred  income  taxes  are
recognized  for  the tax  consequences  of 'temporary  differences'  by applying
enacted statutory tax rates  applicable to future  years to differences  between
the  financial statement carrying  amounts and the tax  bases of existing assets
and liabilities. Under FAS 109, the effect on deferred taxes of a change in  tax
rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
     Provision  is  made  for  deferred  income  taxes  applicable  to temporary
differences between financial statement and taxable income.
 
     Use of  Estimates  --  Management of  the  Company  has made  a  number  of
estimates  and assumptions relating  to the reporting  of assets and liabilities
and the  disclosure  of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  to  prepare  these
consolidated   financial  statements  in   conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
     Cash and Cash Equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents include  investments
in highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of three months or less.
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The  Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide for
payments to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates.  A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
      Commercial  Insurance -- Most commercial  insurance carriers reimburse the
      Company on the basis of the Facilities' charges, subject to the rates  and
      limits  specified  in  their  policies.  Patients  covered  by  commercial
      insurance  generally  remain  responsible  for  any  differences   between
      insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
      Blue  Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue  Cross plans vary depending on the
      areas in  which the  Facilities presently  operate. Benefits  paid to  the
      Company  can be  charge-based, cost  based, negotiated  per diem  rates or
      approved through a state rate setting process.
 
      Medicare --  Services  rendered  to  Medicare  program  beneficiaries  are
      reimbursed  under a retrospectively determined reasonable cost system with
      final settlement determined after submission of annual cost reports by the
      Company and audits thereof by the Medicare fiscal intermediary.
 
      Managed Care --  Services rendered  to subscribers  of health  maintenance
      organizations,  preferred provider organizations and similar organizations
      are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated rates.
 
      Medicaid  --  Services  rendered  to  State  Medicaid  beneficiaries   are
      reimbursed based on rates established by each individual state program.
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
     The  Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large insurance
companies and federal  and state  agencies or their  intermediaries. Other  than
adjustments  arising from audits by certain of  these agencies, the risk of loss
arising from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms  of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     The  current portion of  Due to Parent  as of October  31, 1996 consists of
amounts due under a Demand Note (Demand Note) for costs incurred or paid by  the
Parent  in connection with the acquisition of the Company in 1992, cash advances
from the Parent,  interest payable  on the subordinated  note in  the amount  of
$1,920,000   and  an  allocation  of  Cooper  corporate  services  amounting  to
$1,378,000, net of payments to the Parent.
 
     All current and future  borrowing under the terms  of the Demand Note  bear
interest,  payable  monthly, at  the rate  of 15%  per annum  (17% in  the event
principal and interest is not paid when due), and all principal and all  accrued
and unpaid interest under the Demand Note shall be completely due and payable on
demand.  The Parent  has indicated that  a demand  for payment will  not be made
prior to November 1, 1997.
 
     The non-current  portion  of  Due  to  Parent  consists  of  a  $16,000,000
subordinated  note. The annual interest  rate on the Note  is 12%. The principal
amount of this  Note shall be  due and payable  on May 29,  2002 unless  payable
sooner pursuant to the terms of the Note.
 
     HGA  performed management services on behalf of PSG Management, Inc. (PSG),
a sister company to HGA and  a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper, in  connection
with  a management  agreement, which  ended in  May, 1995,  between PSG  and the
former owner of HGA for which it earned a fee of 25% of certain of its corporate
headquarters' cost plus a 20% mark-up. Such fees earned by HGA from PSG amounted
to $269,000  and  $428,000  for the  years  ended  October 31,  1995  and  1994,
respectively.
 
     HGA  allocated interest expense to PSG  primarily to reflect an estimate of
the interest  cost  on  debt  incurred  by  HGA  in  connection  with  the  1992
acquisition  of  the Company  by  Cooper, which  relates  to the  PSG management
agreement described above.  Such allocations amounted  to $163,000 and  $254,000
for  1995 and 1994, respectively, and are  recorded as reductions of interest on
long-term debt and interest on Due to Parent Demand Note.
 
D. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participates in Cooper's 401(k) plan (the 'Plan'), which covers
substantially all full-time  employees with more  than 60 days  of service.  The
Company  matches employee contributions  up to certain  limits. These costs were
$49,000, $58,000 and $61,000 for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
E. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt at October 31, 1996 and 1995 consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
     Substantially all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable  of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
     The  long-term  debt agreement  contains  several covenants,  including the
maintenance by  the  Company of  certain  ratios and  levels  of net  worth  (as
defined),  restrictions with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common
stock and on the levels of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments.  On
December  29,  1995,  the outstanding  principal  balance of  $1,320,000  on the
Industrial Revenue Bond was reloaded into the bank term loan. The bank term loan
was renegotiated on September 17, 1996.  Terms of the amended agreement  reduced
the  interest rate to two and one  half percentage points above the bank's prime
rate and extended the loan maturity to August 1, 2001. Additionally, because HGA
achieved targeted  operating  results, the  interest  rate was  further  reduced
effective  November 1, 1996  to a rate  of two percentage  points (2%) above the
bank's prime rate,  subject to  a minimum  of nine  percent (9%).  The rates  in
effect at October 31, 1996 and 1995 were 10.75% and 12.75%, respectively.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In  the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in various
litigation cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of  such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
     The  Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating lease
agreements. The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due  under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of October 31, 1996:
 

 
     Some  of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or increased
rental (based upon  increases in the  Consumer Price Index),  none of which  are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted   to  $857,000,  $706,000  and  $736,000   for  1996,  1995  and  1994,
respectively.
 
     On May 14,  1996, the Company  acquired land and  an existing structure  in
Kouts,  Indiana,  for  development of  a  50 bed  residential  treatment center.
Renovations and additions to  the existing structure  are currently in  progress
and an opening date of March 31, 1997 is anticipated.
 
G. INCOME TAXES
 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
the  Company's consolidated statements of operations  and the amount computed by
applying the federal income tax rate to losses follows:
 

 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
     The tax  effects of  temporary differences  that give  rise to  significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
 

 
     The  net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended October
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 was an increase of $1,694,000, $3,928,000 and a decrease
of $3,272,000, respectively.
 
     At October  31,  1996  the  Parent  had  consolidated  net  operating  loss
carryforwards,  of which approximately  $10,000,000 related to  the Company. The
tax benefit of  an additional $14,000,000  of the Company's  net operating  loss
carryforwards, which have been utilized in the Parent's consolidated return, are
available in the future should the Company have sufficient taxable income during
the  carryforward period. The net operating loss carryforwards expire commencing
in 2001.
 
H. PLEDGE AGREEMENT
 
     Pursuant to a  pledge agreement dated  as of January  6, 1994, between  the
Parent  and the Trustee  for the holders  of a new  class of debt  issued by the
Parent (the 'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security  interest
in  all of its right,  title and interest of its  investment in the Company, all
additional shares of stock of, or other equity interest in the Company from time
to time acquired by the Parent, all additional intercompany indebtedness of  the
Company  from time to  time held by  the Parent and  except as set  forth in the
indenture to the Notes,  the proceeds received from  the sale or disposition  of
any or all of the foregoing.
 
I. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Under  an agreement dated July 11,  1985, as amended (the 'HMG Agreement'),
Hampton  Medical  Group,  P.A.  ('HMG'),  which  is  not  affiliated  with  HGA,
contracted  to provide clinical and  clinical administrative services at Hampton
Psychiatric Institute  ('Hampton Hospital'),  the primary  facility operated  by
Hospital  Group of New Jersey, Inc. ('HGNJ'),  a subsidiary of HGA. In late 1993
and early 1994, HGNJ delivered notices  to HMG asserting that HMG had  defaulted
under  the HMG Agreement based upon billing  practices by HMG that HGNJ believed
to be fraudulent. At the request of HMG, a
 
 



               HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996 , 1995 AND 1994
 
New York state court enjoined HGNJ from terminating the HMG Agreement based upon
the initial  notice  and  ordered  the parties  to  arbitrate  whether  HMG  had
defaulted.
 
     On  December  30, 1994,  Blue Cross  and  Blue Shield  of New  Jersey, Inc.
commenced a lawsuit in the Superior Court of New Jersey entitled Blue Cross  and
Blue Shield of New Jersey, Inc. v. Hampton Medical Group, et al. against HMG and
certain  related entities  and individuals unrelated  to HGNJ  or its affiliates
alleging, among  other things,  fraudulent billing  practices (the  'Blue  Cross
Action').
 
     On  December 11,  1995, the Parent  announced a settlement  of all disputes
with HMG and  Dr. Pottash, owner  of HMG.  Pursuant to the  settlement, (i)  the
parties  released each other from, among other things, the claims underlying the
arbitration, (ii) HGA purchased HMG's interest in the HMG Agreement on  December
31,  1995, and  (iii) HGNJ  agreed to  make certain  payments to  Dr. Pottash in
respect of claims he had asserted. While only HMG and Dr. Pottash are parties to
the settlement with HGA, HGNJ and the  Parent, HGA has not been notified of  any
claims  by other third party  payors or others relating  to the billing or other
practices at Hampton Hospital, although  it continues to respond voluntarily  to
requests  for information from  the State of New  Jersey Department of Insurance
and other government agencies with respect to these matters. The settlement with
HMG and  Dr. Pottash  resulted in  a one-time  charge with  a present  value  of
$5,551,000  to fourth quarter fiscal earnings. That charge reflects amounts paid
to Dr.  Pottash  in  December  1995 of  $3,100,000  included  in  other  current
liabilities  at October 31, 1995 as well as two payments scheduled to be made to
HMG in May 1997 and 1998, each in the amount of $1,537,000.
 
     HGA and Progressions Health Systems,  Inc. entered into the purchase  price
agreement  which settled  cross claims between  the parties  related to purchase
price adjustments  (which were  credited  to goodwill)  and other  disputes  and
provided for a series of payments to be made to HGA. Pursuant to this agreement,
HGA received approximately $853,000 in 1995, $421,000 of which has been credited
to Settlement of Disputes, Net.
 
J. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The  carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, which include
cash and  cash equivalents,  trade receivables,  accounts payable,  and  accrued
liabilities,  approximate their fair values at  October 31, 1996, because of the
short maturity of these instruments.
 
     The fair value of  the Company's bank term  loan approximates the  carrying
value as the debt was refinanced within the last fiscal year.
 





                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, recovered accounts receivable previously
    written off and other items.
 





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
COOPERSURGICAL, INC.:
 
     We  have audited the accompanying balance sheets of CooperSurgical, Inc. as
of October  31,  1996  and  1995, and  the  related  statements  of  operations,
stockholders'  equity (deficit),  and cash  flows for each  of the  years in the
three-year period ended October 31, 1996.  In connection with our audits of  the
financial  statements, we  also have  audited the  Company's financial statement
Schedule II. These financial statements and the financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these  financial statements and  the financial statement  schedule
based on our audits.
 
     We  conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In  our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial  position of CooperSurgical, Inc. as  of
October  31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for each  of the  years in  the three-year  period ended  October 31,  1996,  in
conformity  with generally accepted accounting  principles. Also in our opinion,
the related financial  statement schedule,  when considered in  relation to  the
basic  financial statements taken  as a whole, presents  fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Stamford, Connecticut
December 3, 1996
 





                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 





                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 





                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
GENERAL
 
     CooperSurgical,  Inc. ('CooperSurgical'), a Delaware corporation, develops,
manufactures  and   distributes   electrosurgical,  cryosurgical   and   general
application diagnostic surgical instruments and equipment. The Cooper Companies,
Inc.  ('Parent'), a Delaware corporation, owns 100% of CooperSurgical's Series A
convertible preferred stock. CooperSurgical's  outstanding common stock is  100%
owned by individuals on the CooperSurgical Advisory Board which provides counsel
and management of clinical trials in the area of minimally invasive surgery. The
accompanying  financial statements have been  prepared from the separate records
of CooperSurgical  and may  not be  indicative of  conditions which  would  have
existed or the results of its operations if CooperSurgical operated autonomously
(see note 5). Foreign exchange translation and transactions are immaterial.
 
NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
     CooperSurgical is a worldwide provider of practice enhancement products for
the gynecologist. The Company's principal products include the LEEP product line
(Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure), diagnostic and operative hysteroscopy
products,  colposcopy  products  and every  day  instrumentation  and disposable
products. Marketed  principally to  the  domestic market  through a  variety  of
independent  marketing  partnerships, global  coverage  is obtained  through top
distributors of gynecology products for a given market arena.
 
INTERCOMPANY LIABILITY
 
     CooperSurgical's liability  to  Parent matures  on  October 31,  2001,  the
Parent  is committed to  funding the Company's  cash requirements, as necessary,
until that date.
 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
     CooperSurgical recognizes  product  revenue  when  risk  of  ownership  has
transferred  to the buyer,  net of appropriate provisions  for sales returns and
bad debts.
 
ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     The preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions that  affect the  reported  amounts of  assets and  liabilities  and
disclosure  of contingent  assets and liabilities  at the date  of the financial
statements, and  the  reported  amounts  of revenues  and  expenses  during  the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     For  all financial instruments included  in CooperSurgical's balance sheet,
the fair  value  of those  financial  instruments approximates  their  financial
statements carrying amounts.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     CooperSurgical  is included in  the consolidated income  tax returns of the
Parent. The consolidated  federal, state and  local taxes are  subject to a  tax
sharing  agreement  under  which  CooperSurgical's liability  is  computed  on a
non-consolidated basis using a combined rate of 40%.
 
     Effective November 1, 1993, CooperSurgical adopted the liability method  of
accounting  for income taxes as prescribed  by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes' (FAS 109). The liability method
under   FAS    109    measures   the    expected    tax   impact    of    future
 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
taxable income or deductions resulting from temporary differences in the tax and
financial  reporting bases  of assets and  liabilities reflected  in the balance
sheet. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using the enacted  tax
rates in effect for the year in which these differences are expected to reverse.
Under  FAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in
tax rates is recognized in the period that the change is enacted.
 
POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
 
     Effective November  1,  1994,  CooperSurgical, Inc.  adopted  Statement  of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, 'Employers Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits'  ('FAS 112'). FAS  112 establishes accounting  standards for employers
who provide benefits to former or inactive employees after employment but before
retirement ('postemployment benefits'). Postemployment benefits are all types of
benefits provided  to former  or inactive  employees, their  beneficiaries,  and
covered  dependents.  Those benefits  include, but  are  not limited  to, salary
continuation,   supplemental   unemployment   benefits,   severance    benefits,
disability-related  benefits (including workers' compensation), job training and
counseling, and continuation of  benefits such as  healthcare benefits and  life
insurance coverage.
 
     The  termination benefits portion  of the restructuring  charge incurred in
fiscal 1995, discussed in note 2, has been accounted for in accordance with  the
provisions of FAS 112.
 
INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are carried at the lower of cost, determined on an average cost
basis, or market.
 
ADVERTISING
 
     CooperSurgical  expenses the production costs of advertising the first time
the advertising takes  place, except for  direct-response advertising, which  is
capitalized and amortized over its expected period of future benefits.
 
     Direct  Response advertising  consists primarily  of catalog  mailings that
include order forms for CooperSurgical's products. The capitalized costs of  the
advertising  are amortized over a  three to four month  period or until the next
catalog mailing is made.
 
     At October 31, 1996 and 1995, direct response advertising costs of  $89,000
and  $136,000,  respectively,  were included  in  prepaid  expenses. Advertising
expense was $993,000, $839,000  and $1,033,000 in fiscal  1996, 1995, and  1994,
respectively.
 
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Furniture and equipment is carried at cost. Depreciation is computed on the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of depreciable assets.
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization   is  currently  provided  on   all  intangible  assets  on  a
straight-line basis over  periods up  to 20 years.  Accumulated amortization  at
October  31,  1996 and  1995 was  $1,686,000  and $1,454,000,  respectively. The
Company assesses the recoverability of  goodwill and other long-lived assets  by
determining  whether the amortization of these  assets over their remaining life
can be recovered through reasonably expected future cash flow.
 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
2. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS
 
RESTRUCTURING
 
     During fiscal  1995, CooperSurgical  closed their  Redmond, Washington  and
Belgium  field  offices whereby  all employees  at  these locations  and certain
support personnel  at CooperSurgical's  Shelton, Connecticut  headquarters  were
terminated,  resulting  in a  $425,000  restructuring charge.  The restructuring
charge includes termination benefits of  $314,000 which covers eight  employees.
As  of  October 31,  1996,  all termination  benefits  had been  paid  and eight
employees had been officially terminated.
 
PATENT ACQUISITION
 
     During fiscal 1995, CooperSurgical acquired the rights to certain  patented
products  for $1,000,000. $800,000 had been paid  prior to October 31, 1995 with
the remaining $200,000 paid during fiscal 1996 which ended October 31, 1996.
 
LICENSE AGREEMENTS
 
     On April 11,  1996, CooperSurgical obtained  the worldwide license  rights,
from an affiliate of the Parent, for the complete line of Unimar, Inc. products.
This agreement allows the Company to market and sell, through its existing sales
distribution  channels,  all  products through  April  11,  2006 with  a  60 day
cancellation clause by  either entity.  A monthly Royalty  fee of  approximately
$100,000 will be incurred by CooperSurgical.
 
3. EXPORT SALES
 
     CooperSurgical  had export sales of  $2,995,000, $2,118,000, and $2,441,000
for the years ended October 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
4. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
 
     CooperSurgical utilized  a  cash  concentration  account  with  the  Parent
whereby  approximately $713,000 and $180,000 of checks issued and outstanding at
October 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, in excess of related bank cash balances
were reclassified to accounts payable. Sufficient funds were available from  the
Parent to cover these checks.
 
5. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Included  in CooperSurgical's  selling, general  and administrative expense
are Parent allocations for technical  service fees of $1,191,000, $389,000,  and
$514,000  for the  years ended  October 31,  1996, 1995  and 1994, respectively.
These costs are  charges from the  Parent for accounting,  legal, tax and  other
services provided to CooperSurgical and are added to the balance Due to Parent.
 
     On  January  24,  1994, CooperSurgical's  Parent  converted  $19,011,000 of
Parent advances into  9,796,660 shares  of CooperSurgical  Series A  convertible
preferred  stock  and  converted  the  remaining  $3,313,000  balance  of Parent
advances into a  Term Note, with  principal and interest  due January 24,  1996,
bearing  interest  at  12%, compounded  monthly  (Parent advances  in  excess of
$4,000,000 bear interest at 15%, compounded monthly). The maturity date of  this
Term Note for principal plus any accrued unpaid interest was extended to October
31, 2001.
 
     Included  in CooperSurgical's selling,  general and administrative expenses
are Royalty payments  of $675,000 made  during fiscal 1996  in conjunction  with
license  agreements for Unimar, Inc. product line. This amount covers the period
from April 11, 1996 to October 31, 1996.
 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
6. INCOME TAXES
 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
CooperSurgical's statement of operations and the amount computed by applying the
federal income  tax rate  to  income (loss)  from continuing  operations  before
extraordinary items and income taxes follows:
 

 
     The  tax effects  of temporary  differences that  give rise  to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
 

 
     The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended  October
31,  1996, 1995 and 1994  was an increase of  $221,000, $503,000 and $1,250,000;
respectively.
 
     At October  31,  1996,  the  Parent had  consolidated  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  of which approximately $11,400,000 related to CooperSurgical. The
tax benefit of  an additional  $3,000,000 of CooperSurgical  net operating  loss
carryforwards  which have been utilized in  the Parent's consolidated return are
available in the  future should  CooperSurgical have  sufficient taxable  income
during  the  carryforward period.  The net  operating loss  carryforwards expire
commencing in 2006.
 
7. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 
 



                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     During fiscal 1995,  CooperSurgical acquired a  new telephone system  under
the terms of a capital lease for $72,000 whereby CooperSurgical can purchase the
system  for $1 at the  end of the 48  month lease term. As  of October 31, 1995,
accumulated depreciation associated with the telephone system totaled $5,000.
 
     Annual  maturities  of  long-term  debt,  including  current   installments
thereof, are as follows:
 

 
8. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the normal course of its business, CooperSurgical is involved in various
litigations.  In the opinion  of management, the  disposition of such litigation
will  not  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  CooperSurgical's  financial
condition.
 
     CooperSurgical  leases certain property and equipment under non-cancellable
operating lease agreements. The following is a schedule of the estimated minimum
payment due under such leases with an initial  term of more than one year as  of
October 31, 1996:
 

 
     Rental expense for all leases amounted to approximately $300,000, $317,000,
and $311,000 for the years ended October 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
9. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     CooperSurgical employees are eligible to participate in the Parent's 401(k)
Savings  Plan, a  defined contribution plan  and the  Parent's Retirement Income
Plan, a defined  benefit plan. As  of October 31,  1996, CooperSurgical has  not
elected  to  participate  in  the  Parent's  Retirement  Income  Plan.  Employer
contributions to the Parent's 401(k) Savings Plan, as well as costs and expenses
of administering the Plan, are allocated to CooperSurgical as appropriate. These
amounts were not  significant for  the years ended  October 31,  1996, 1995  and
1994.
 
10. SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
 
     The  Series A Convertible Preferred Stock  is convertible into Common Stock
on a one-to-one  basis, subject to  adjustment for stock  splits, dividends  and
certain  other distributions of Common Stock and  has voting rights equal to the
number of shares of Common Stock into which it is convertible. CooperSurgical is
required to reserve for issuance, shares of Common Stock equal to the shares  of
Preferred  Stock issued and  outstanding at any given  date. The Preferred Stock
has a  liquidation preference  of  $1.940625 per  share and  accrues  cumulative
dividends   of  $0.1940625  per  share  per  annum.  The  aggregate  liquidation
preference of  the Preferred  Stock at  October 31,  1996 is  $20,253,000,  plus
cumulative  dividends of  $6,324,000. The  Preferred Stock  participates ratably
with the Common Stock in any additional dividends declared beyond the cumulative
dividends and in  any remaining  assets beyond the  liquidation preference.  The
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock represents 99.8% of the total voting rights
of all outstanding CooperSurgical stock.
 





                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1996
 

 





3. EXHIBITS.
 

 
 



 

 
(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     August 8, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 
     August 27, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 
     October 29, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 





                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 27, 1997.
 
                                                THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.


                                          By:        /s/ A. THOMAS BENDER
                                             ...................................
                                                      A. THOMAS BENDER
                                                 PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                                    OFFICER AND DIRECTOR
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the dates set forth opposite their
respective names.
 

 





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 



 

 
(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     August 8, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 
     August 27, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 
     October 29, 1996 -- Item 5. Other Events.
 

                              STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES
                              ------------------------

The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as 'r'
The trademark symbol shall be expressed as 'tm'
The British pound sterling sign shall be expressed as 'L'













