
10-K405
0001.txt
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. 10-K405














================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2000 COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8597

                                   ----------

                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                                   ----------


                                  925-460-3600
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)

                                   ----------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

         Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of December 31, 2000: Common Stock, $.10 Par Value -
$567,548,890.

         Number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock, as of
December 31, 2000: 14,472,890.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:



================================================================================









                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION

         The Cooper Companies, Inc. (the "Company," "Cooper" or "we" and similar
pronouns), through its principal subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and
markets healthcare products. CooperVision ("CVI") markets a range of contact
lenses to correct visual defects, specializing in toric lenses that correct
astigmatism. Its leading products are disposable-planned replacement toric and
spherical lenses. CVI also markets conventional toric and spherical lenses and
lenses for patients with more complex vision disorders. CooperSurgical ("CSI")
markets diagnostic products, surgical instruments and accessories to the women's
healthcare market.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

         Some of the information included in this report contains
"forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include all statements regarding
anticipated growth in our revenue, anticipated market conditions and results of
operations. To identify forward-looking statements, look for words like
"believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," "seeks," "intends," "plans,"
"estimates" or "anticipates" and similar words or phrases. Discussions of
strategy, plans or intentions often contain forward-looking statements. These,
and all forward-looking statements, necessarily depend on assumptions, data or
methods that may be incorrect or imprecise.

         Events, among others, that could cause actual results and future
actions to differ materially from those described by or contemplated in the
forward-looking statements include major changes in business conditions, a major
disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, new competitors or
technologies, the impact of an undetected virus on our computer systems,
acquisition integration delays or costs, foreign currency exchange exposure,
investments in research and development and other start-up projects, dilution to
earnings per share from acquisitions or issuing stock, regulatory issues,
significant environmental cleanup costs above those already accrued, litigation
costs, costs of business divestitures, the requirement to provide for a
significant liability or to write off significant assets, changes in accounting
principles or estimates, and other factors described in our Securities and
Exchange Commission filings, including the "Business" section in this Form 10-K
for the year ended October 31, 2000 and the related portions of the Company's
2000 Annual Report to Stockholders ("2000 Annual Report") incorporated here by
reference. The 2000 Annual Report is included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.
We caution investors not to rely on forward-looking statements. They reflect our
analysis only on their stated dates or the date of this report. We disclaim any
intent or obligation to update these forward-looking statements.


GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESSES

         The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
the caption "To Our Shareholders" and the additional "CooperSurgical:
Consolidating Women's Healthcare for Profitable Growth" section in the 2000
Annual Report.














RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

         Company-sponsored research and development expenditures during the
fiscal years ended October 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $2.7 million, $2 million
and $1.9 million, respectively. During fiscal 2000, CooperVision spent about 60%
and CooperSurgical spent about 40% of the total. Cooper did not conduct any
customer-sponsored research and development programs.

         Cooper employs 26 people in its research and development and
manufacturing engineering departments. Outside specialists in lens design,
formulation science, polymer chemistry, microbiology and biochemistry support
product development and clinical research for CVI products. CSI conducts
research and development in-house and also employs outside surgical specialists,
including members of its surgical advisory board.


GOVERNMENT REGULATION

         The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), other federal agencies
and foreign ministries of health regulate the development, testing, production
and marketing of the Company's products. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
and other statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacturing, labeling,
storage, advertising and promotion of these products. If applicable regulations
are not followed, companies may be subject to fines, product recall or seizure,
suspension of production and criminal prosecution.

         Cooper develops and markets medical devices under different levels of
FDA regulation depending upon the classification of the device. Class III
devices, such as flexible and extended wear contact lenses, require extensive
premarket testing and approval, while Class I and II devices require
substantially lower levels of regulation.

         Before a new contact lens can be sold commercially, CVI must complete
these steps: (1) compile data on its chemistry and toxicology, (2) determine its
microbiological profile and (3) define the proposed manufacturing process. This
data must be submitted to the FDA to support an application for an
Investigational Device Exemption. Once this is granted, clinical trials can
begin. These are subject to review and approval by an Institutional Review Board
and, where a lens is determined to have a significant risk, the FDA. After the
clinical trials are completed, a Premarket Approval Application must be
submitted and approved by the FDA.

         In connection with some of Cooper's new products, we can submit an
expedited procedure known as a 510(k) application for premarket notification to
the FDA. Any product that can demonstrate that it is substantially equivalent to
another device marketed before May 28, 1976 can use this procedure. If the new
product is not substantially equivalent to a preexisting device or if the FDA
rejects a claim of substantial equivalence, FDA approval to market would require
extensive preclinical and clinical testing. This would increase the cost and
would delay product marketing substantially.

         FDA and state regulations also require the Company to adhere to
applicable "good manufacturing practices" ("GMP"). They require detailed quality
assurance and record keeping and periodic unscheduled regulatory inspections.
The Company believes it is in compliance with GMP regulations.

         Health authorities in foreign countries regulate Cooper's clinical
trials and medical device sales. The regulations vary widely from country to
country. Even if the FDA has approved a product, the regulatory agencies in each
country must approve new products before they are marketed.

         These regulatory procedures require considerable resources and usually
result in a substantial time lag between new product development and marketing.
Cooper cannot assure that all necessary approvals will be obtained, or obtained
in a timely manner. If the Company does not maintain compliance with regulatory
standards or if problems occur after marketing, product approval may be
withdrawn.














ISO 9000 CERTIFICATION AND CE MARK APPROVAL

         In addition to FDA regulatory requirements, the Company also maintains
ISO 9000 certification and CE Mark approvals for all lens products. These
quality programs and approvals are required by the European Medical Device
Directive and must be maintained for all products intended to be sold in the
European market. In order to maintain these prestigious quality benchmarks, the
Company is subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of their quality
systems and procedures.


RAW MATERIALS

         In general, CVI's raw materials consist of various polymers and
packaging materials. There are alternative supply sources of all of these
materials. Raw materials used by CSI or its suppliers are generally available
from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized
manufacturing procedures, CSI could experience inventory shortages if it were
required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice.


MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

         In the United States, Canada and some European countries, CVI markets
its products through its field sales representatives, who call on
ophthalmologists, optometrists, opticians and optical chains. In the United
States, field sales representatives also call on distributors. In Japan and
certain European countries, CVI uses distributors and has given them the
exclusive right to market our products.

         CSI's products are marketed worldwide by a network of field sales
representatives and distributors. In the United States, Cooper augments its
sales and marketing activities by employing e-commerce, telemarketing, direct
mail, advertising in professional journals, and the use of a direct mail
catalog.


PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS

         Cooper owns or licenses a variety of domestic and foreign patents
which, in total, are material to its businesses. The names of certain of
Cooper's products are protected by trademark registrations in the United States
Patent and Trademark Office and, in some cases, also in foreign trademark
offices. Applications are pending for additional trademark registrations. Cooper
aggressively enforces and defends its patents and other proprietary technology.


DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS

         Neither of Cooper's business segments depends on any one customer or
any one affiliated group of customers.


GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

         Cooper's business is not materially subject to profit renegotiation or
termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States
government.














COMPETITION

         Each of Cooper's businesses operates in a highly competitive
environment. Competition in the healthcare industry revolves around the search
for technological and therapeutic innovations in the prevention, diagnosis and
treatment of illness or disease. Cooper competes primarily on the basis of
product quality and differentiation, technological benefit, service and
reliability.

         Many companies develop and manufacture contact lenses. CVI competes
primarily on its product quality, service and reputation among medical
professionals. It sponsors clinical studies to generate medical information to
improve its lenses. Major competitors have greater financial resources and
larger research and development and sales forces than CVI. Many of these
competitors offer a greater range of contact lenses and a variety of other
eyecare products, including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals,
which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses to high
volume contract accounts.

         In the surgical segment where Cooper concentrates on Women's
healthcare, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances,
product quality, price and effective communication of product information to
physicians and hospitals. CSI believes that it benefits from the technological
advantages of certain of its products and from developing new medical procedures
that can create new markets for equipment and instruments. CSI competes by
focusing on distinct niche markets and by supplying these with high quality
equipment, instruments and disposable products. For certain procedures, medical
practitioners can obtain all of the equipment, instruments and disposable
products from CSI. As CSI develops products for new medical procedures, it
offers to train medical professionals to perform them. CSI competes with a
number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets, including larger
manufacturers with greater financial and personnel resources who sell a
substantially larger number of product lines.


BACKLOG

         Backlog is not a material factor in Cooper's businesses.


SEASONALITY

         CVI's contact lens sales in the first fiscal quarter are typically
lower than subsequent quarters, as fewer patients visit practitioners during the
holiday season.


COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

         Federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of
materials into the environment, or relate to the protection of the environment,
do not currently materially affect Cooper's capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position. Refer to "Environmental" in Note 11 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included in the 2000 Annual
Report, regarding certain anticipated remediation costs is incorporated here by
reference.


WORKING CAPITAL

         Cooper's businesses have not required any material working capital
arrangements in the past five years.














FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS,
FOREIGN OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to Note 12 "Business Segment Information" of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company included in the 2000 Annual Report.


EMPLOYEES

         On October 31, 2000, Cooper had approximately 2,100 employees. The
Company believes that its relations with its employees are good.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

         The following are Cooper's principal facilities as of October 31, 2000:



         The Company believes its properties are suitable and adequate for its
businesses.













ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

         Not applicable.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

         During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company did not submit
any matters to a vote of the Company's security holders.












                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to "Quarterly Common Stock Price Range" and "Corporate Information" in the 2000
Annual Report.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to "Five Year Financial Highlights" in the 2000 Annual Report.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in the 2000 Annual Report.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

         The Company is primarily exposed to market risks that relate
principally to changes in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. The
Company's policy is to minimize, to the extent reasonable and practical, its
exposure to the impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency
fluctuations by entering into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward
exchange contracts, respectively. The Company does not enter into derivative
financial instrument transactions for speculative purposes. Additional
information for this item is incorporated here by reference to "Derivatives" in
Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and in Note 7 "Financial
Instruments" in the 2000 Annual Report.


LONG-TERM DEBT

         Proceeds from the sale of Hospital Group of America ("HGA"), our former
psychiatric services business, were used to pay down debt carrying an average
interest rate of approximately 7%. Total debt was reduced to $48.4 million at
October 31, 2000 from $62 million at October 31, 1999:



         On an annualized basis the debt reduction would result in a decrease in
interest expense of approximately $1 million, assuming we do not raise debt for
other purposes.













         As of October 31, 2000, the scheduled maturities of each of the
Company's fixed and variable rate long-term debt obligations (excluding
capitalized leases), their weighted average interest rates and their estimated
fair values were as follows:



INTEREST RATE EXPOSURES

         The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to minimize the
impact of changes in interest rates on its variable rate long-term debt
obligations. The Company currently has two interest rate swap agreements on a
total of $6.7 million of its outstanding variable rate debt obligations. These
instruments have the effect of converting variable rate instruments to fixed
rate instruments. The swaps fix the interest rate at 4.9% on $2.5 million
variable-rate debt due January 2012 and at 7.1% on $4.2 million variable-rate
due April 2003. The table below shows the notional amount and weighted average
interest rates of each of the Company's interest rate swaps by maturity. The
receive rate is based on October 31, 2000 rates, and projected based on the
consumer price index. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual
payments to be made under the contracts.



FOREIGN CURRENCY EXPOSURES

         The Company uses forward exchange contracts to minimize the effect of
foreign currency fluctuations on its intercompany receivables denominated in
Canadian dollars and its long-term debt obligations denominated in Great Britain
Pounds ("GBP"), incurred to fund a portion of the Company's acquisition of
Aspect Vision Care Ltd. (see caption "Aspect Acquisition" in Note 2
"Acquisitions" in the 2000 Annual Report, which is incorporated here by
reference). The following table provides information on the Company's foreign
currency forward exchange contracts. The information is provided in U.S. Dollar
equivalent amounts, which is the way it is presented in the Company's financial
statements. The table shows the notional amounts at the contract exchange rates
and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates by expected
maturity dates.















ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to "Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Income,"
"Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Consolidated Statements of
Comprehensive Income," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,"
"Independent Auditors' Report" and "Two Year Quarterly Financial Data" in the
2000 Annual Report.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         Not applicable.













                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

         The information included under the heading "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Officers of the Company" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on March 28, 2001 (the "2001 Proxy
Statement") is incorporated by reference for each of the Company's directors and
the executive officers who are not also directors of the Company.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

         The information included under the subheadings "Executive Compensation"
and "Compensation of Directors" of the "Election of Directors" section of the
2001 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference for the Company's chief
executive officer, the four other most highly compensated executive officers of
the Company and the Company's directors.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

         The information included under the subheadings "Securities Held by
Management" and "Principal Security Holders" of the "Election of Directors"
section of the 2001 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference with respect to
certain beneficial owners, the directors and management.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

         The information required by this item is incorporated here by reference
to the heading "Aspect Acquisition" in Note 2 "Acquisitions" in the 2000 Annual
Report.

















                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

         (a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

              1.  Accountants' Consent and Report on Schedule.

              2.  Financial Statement Schedule of the Company.



              3.  Exhibits

                  The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are
              filed as part of this report.

                  All other schedules which are included in the applicable
              accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
              are not required here because they are not applicable.

         (b)  Reports filed on form 8-K:

                  Cooper filed the following reports on Form 8-K during the
              period August 1, 2000 through October 31, 2000.

              August 24, 2000 -- Item 5. Other Events.
              October 18, 2000 -- Item 5. Other Events.




















                   ACCOUNTANTS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE


The Board of Directors THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.

         Under date December 8, 2000, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of The Cooper Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
October 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended October 31, 2000, which are incorporated herein by reference. In
connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also audited the related consolidated financial statement
schedule as listed in Item 14 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

         We consent to incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
33-50016, 33-11298, 333-22417, 333-25051, 333-27639, 333-80795, 333-48152 and
333-34206 on Forms S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-10997, 33-27938,
33-36325, 33-36326 and 333-58839 on Forms S-8 of The Cooper Companies, Inc. of
our reports dated December 8, 2000, relating to the consolidated balance sheets
of The Cooper Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 31, 2000 and 1999
and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 2000, and
related schedule, which reports appear in or are incorporated by reference to
the October 31, 2000 Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Cooper Companies, Inc.




                                    KPMG LLP


San Francisco, California
January 25, 2001





















                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                   THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2000




(1)   Consists of additions representing acquired allowances and recoveries,
      less deductions representing receivables written off as uncollectible.
























                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 26, 2001.

                                         THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.

                                         By:      /s/ A. THOMAS BENDER
                                         ----------------------------------
                                                   A. THOMAS BENDER
                                              PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                                  OFFICER AND DIRECTOR

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the dates set forth opposite their
respective names.












                                  EXHIBIT INDEX



















*  The information required in this exhibit is incorporated here by reference to
   Note 4, "Earnings Per Share," in the 2000 Annual Report.



                            STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES
                            ------------------------

The trademark symbol shall be expressed as...............................  'TM'
The registered trademark symbol shall be expressed as....................   'r'
The British pound sterling sign shall be expressed as....................   'L'
The dagger symbol shall be expressed as..................................   'D'








