
10-K405
THE COOPER COMPANIES 10-K405

















                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                             -----------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
      FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998 COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8597

                             -----------------------

                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                             -----------------------



                                  925-460-3600
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                             -----------------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



              SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                         None

        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]   No [ ]

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

        Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of December 31, 1998: Common Stock, $.10 Par Value --
$297,773,840.


        Number of shares  outstanding of the registrant's  common stock, as of
December 31, 1998:  14,913,957.

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:














                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

INTRODUCTION

        The Cooper Companies, Inc. ("Cooper" or the "Company"), through its
major subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets healthcare products,
including hard and soft daily, flexible and extended wear contact lenses, and
diagnostic products and surgical instruments and related products. In October
1998, the Company's Management and Board of Directors declared its Hospital
Group of America, Inc. ("HGA") business a discontinued operation.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

        Statements in this report that are not based on historical fact may be
"forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. They include words like "may," "will," "expect," "estimate,"
"anticipate," "continue" or similar terms and reflect Cooper's current analysis
of existing trends. Actual results could differ materially from those indicated
due to: major changes in business conditions and the economy, loss of key senior
management, major disruptions in the operations of Cooper's manufacturing
facilities, new competitors or technologies, significant disruptions caused by
the failure of third parties to address the Year 2000 issue or by unforeseen
delays in completing Cooper's Year 2000 compliance program, acquisition
integration costs, foreign currency exchange exposure including the potential
impact of the Euro, investments in research and development and other start-up
projects, dilution to earnings per share from acquisitions or issuing stock,
regulatory issues, significant environmental clean-up costs above those already
accrued, litigation costs, costs of business divestitures, in the Company's SEC
reports, including this section entitled "Business" in this Form 10-K and the
related portions of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders (the "1998
Annual Report") incorporated by reference herein, which 1998 Annual Report is
included as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESSES

        The information required for this item is contained under the caption
"Letter to Shareholders" in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

        Company-sponsored research and development expenditures during the
fiscal year ended October 31, were $1.9 million in 1998, $1.7 million in 1997
and $1.2 million in 1996. During fiscal 1998, CooperVision spent about 49% and
CooperSurgical spent about 51% of the total. Cooper did not conduct any
customer-sponsored research and development programs.

        Cooper employs 21 people in its research and development and
manufacturing engineering departments. Outside specialists in lens design
formulation science, polymer chemistry, microbiology and biochemistry support
product development and clinical research for CooperVision products.
CooperSurgical conducts research and development in-house and also employs
outside surgical specialists, including members of its surgical advisory board.














GOVERNMENT REGULATION

        The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), other federal agencies
and foreign ministries of health regulate the development, testing, production
and marketing of the Company's products. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
and other statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacturing, labeling,
storage, advertising and promotion of such products. If applicable regulations
are not followed, companies are subject to fines, product recall or seizure,
suspension of production and criminal prosecution.

        Cooper develops and markets medical devices under different levels of
FDA regulation depending upon the classification of the device. Class III
devices, such as flexible and extended wear contact lenses, require extensive
premarket testing and approval, while Class I and II devices require
substantially lower levels of regulation.

        Before a new contact lens can be sold commercially, CooperVision ("CVI")
must complete these steps: (1) compile data on its chemistry and toxicology, (2)
determine its microbiological profile and (3) define the proposed manufacturing
process. This data must be submitted to the FDA to support an application for an
Investigational Device Exemption. Once this is granted, clinical trials can
begin. These are subject to review and approval by an Institutional Review Board
and, where a lens is determined to have a significant risk, the FDA. After the
clinical trials are completed, a Premarket Approval Application must be
submitted and approved by the FDA.

        In connection with some of its new surgical products, CooperSurgical
("CSI") can submit an expedited procedure known as a 510(k) application for
premarket notification to the FDA. Any product that can demonstrate that it is
substantially equivalent to another device marketed before May 28, 1976 can use
this procedure. If the new product is not substantially equivalent to a
preexisting device or if the FDA rejected a claim of substantial equivalence,
FDA approval to market would require extensive preclinical and clinical testing.
This would increase the cost and would delay product marketing substantially.

        FDA and state regulations also require the Company to adhere to
applicable "good manufacturing practices" ("GMP"). They require detailed quality
assurance and record keeping and periodic unscheduled regulatory inspections.
The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with GMP regulations.

        Health authorities in foreign countries regulate Cooper's human device
clinical trials and medical device sales. The regulations vary widely from
country to country. Even if the FDA has approved a product, the regulatory
agencies in each country must approve new products before they are marketed.

        These regulatory procedures require considerable resources and usually
result in a substantial time lag between new product development and marketing.
Cooper cannot assure that all necessary approvals will be obtained, or obtained
in a timely manner. If the Company does not maintain compliance with regulatory
standards or if problems occur after marketing, product approval may be
withdrawn.

ISO 9000 CERTIFICATION AND CE MARK APPROVAL

        In addition to the FDA regulatory requirements, the Company also
maintains ISO 9000 certification and CE Mark approvals for all lens products.
These quality programs and approvals are required by the European Medical Device
Directive and must be maintained for all products intended to be sold in the
European market. In order to maintain these prestigious quality benchmarks, the
Company is subjected to rigorous biannual reassessment audits of their quality
systems and procedures by globally recognized notified bodies and agencies.














RAW MATERIALS

        In general, CVI's raw materials consist of various polymers and
packaging materials. There are alternative supply sources of all of these
materials. Raw materials used by CSI or its suppliers are generally available
from more than one source. However, because some products require specialized
manufacturing procedures, CSI could experience inventory shortages if it needed
an alternative manufacturer on short notice.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

        In the United States, Canada and certain European countries, CVI markets
its products through its field sales representatives, who call on
ophthalmologists, optometrists, opticians and optical chains. In the United
States, field sales representatives also call on distributors. In certain other
European counties, CVI uses distributors and has given them the exclusive right
to market our products.

        CSI's products are marketed worldwide by a network of field sales
representatives and distributors. In the United States, CSI also uses
telemarketing, direct mail, advertising in professional journals and a direct
mail catalog.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS

        Cooper owns or licenses a variety of domestic and foreign patents which,
in total, are material to its businesses. The names of certain of Cooper's
products are protected by trademark registrations in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office and, in some cases, also in foreign trademark offices.
Applications are pending for additional trademark registrations. These
trademarks are valuable as they contribute to the brand identity of Cooper's
products. Cooper aggressively enforces and defends its patents and other
proprietary technology.

DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS

        Cooper's business does not materially depend on any one customer or any
one affiliated group of customers.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

        Cooper's business is not materially subject to profit renegotiation or
termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the United States
government.

COMPETITION

        Each of Cooper's businesses operates in a highly competitive
environment. Competition in the healthcare industry revolves around the search
for technological and therapeutic innovations in the prevention, diagnosis and
treatment of illness or disease. Cooper competes primarily on the basis of
product quality, program differentiation, technological benefit, service and
reliability.

        Many companies develop and manufacture contact lenses. CVI competes
primarily on its product quality, service and reputation among medical
professionals and by participating in specialty niche markets.














It sponsors clinical studies to generate medical information to improve its
lenses. Major competitors have greater financial resources and larger research
and development and sales forces than CVI. Many of these competitors offer a
greater range of contact lenses and a variety of other eyecare products,
including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them
a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses to high volume contract
accounts.

        In the surgical segment, competitive factors include technological and
scientific advances, product quality, price and effective communication of
product information to physicians and hospitals. CSI believes that it benefits,
in part, from the technological advantages of certain of its products and from
developing new medical procedures that can create new markets for equipment and
instruments. CSI competes by focusing on distinct niche markets and by supplying
these with high quality equipment, instruments and disposable products. For
certain procedures, medical practitioners can obtain all of the equipment,
instruments and disposable products from CSI. As CSI develops products for new
medical procedures, it offers to train medical professionals to perform them.
CSI competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its niche markets,
including larger manufacturers with greater financial and personnel resources
who sell a substantially larger number of product lines.

BACKLOG

        Backlog is not a material factor in Cooper's businesses.

SEASONALITY

        CVI's contact lens sales in the first fiscal quarter are generally lower
than subsequent quarters as fewer patients visit practitioners during the
holiday season.

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS

        Federal, state and local provisions that regulate the discharge of
materials into the environment, or relate to the protecting of the environment,
do not currently materially effect Cooper's capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position. See "Environmental" in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company included in the 1998 Annual Report,
regarding certain anticipated remediation costs, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

WORKING CAPITAL

        Cooper's businesses have not required any material working capital
arrangements in the past five years.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

        The information required for this item is included in Note 12 "Business
Segment Information" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the
Company included in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.














EMPLOYEES

        On October 31, 1998, Cooper and its continuing operations employed
approximately 1,900 persons. The Company believes that its relations with its
employees are good.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

        The following are the principal facilities of Cooper's continuing
operations as of October 31, 1998:



        The Company believes its properties are suitable and adequate for its
businesses.














ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

        The information required for this item is contained under the caption
"Pending Litigation - GT Labs" in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company included in the 1998 Annual Report, which information
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

        During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company did not submit any
matters to a vote of the Company's security holders.














                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

        The information required for this item is contained under the caption
"Common Stock Price Range" in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

        The information required for this item is contained under the caption
"Five Year Financial Highlights" in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

        The information required for this item is contained under the caption
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

        The Company is primarily exposed to market risks that relate to changes
in interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations and in the market value of its
long-term debt obligations. The Company seeks to minimize its exposure to the
impact of changing interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations by entering
into interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The
Company generally does not enter into derivative financial instrument
transactions for speculative purposes. Additional information for this item is
contained under the caption "Derivatives" in Note 1 "Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies" and in Note 7 "Financial Instruments" in the 1998 Annual
Report, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

LONG-TERM DEBT

        The following table sets forth as of October 31, 1998, the Company's
long-term debt obligations, principal cash flows by scheduled maturity, weighted
average interest rates and estimated fair market value.
















INTEREST RATE EXPOSURES

       The Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to reduce the
impact of changes in interest rates on its variable rate long-term debt
obligations. The Company currently has two interest rate swap agreements on a
total of $20.5 million of its outstanding variable rate debt obligations. These 
instruments have the effect of converting variable rate instruments to fixed
rate instruments. The interest rate swap agreements assure that the Company will
pay 6.19% and 4.88% on the aforementioned $20.5 million long-term debt
obligations for the periods ending November 2002 (principal amount $17.5
million) and January 2012 (principal amount $3 million), respectively. The table
below sets forth the notional amount and weighted average interest rates of each
of the Company's interest rate swaps by maturity. The receive rate is based on
October 31, 1998 rates, and projected based on the consumer price index.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be made under
the contracts.



FOREIGN CURRENCY EXPOSURES

       The Company uses forward exchange contracts to minimize the effect of
foreign currency fluctuations on its long-term debt obligations denominated in
Great Britain Pounds ("GBP"), which debt was incurred to fund a portion of the
Company's acquisition of Aspect Vision Care Ltd. (see caption "Aspect
Acquisition" in Note 2 "Acquisitions" in the 1998 Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference). The following table provides
information on the Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The
information is provided in U.S. Dollar equivalent amounts, as presented in the
Company's financial statements. The table presents the notional amounts at the
contract exchange rates and the weighted average contractual foreign currency
exchange rates by expected maturity dates.
















ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

        The information required for this item is included under the captions
"Consolidated Balance Sheets," "Consolidated Statements of Income,"
"Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows," "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements," "Independent Auditors' Report" and "Two Year Quarterly Financial
Data" in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

        Not applicable.














                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

        The information contained under the heading "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Officers of the Company" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on March 18, 1999 (the "1999
Proxy Statement") is incorporated herein by reference with respect to each of
the Company's directors and the executive officers who are not also directors of
the Company.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

        The information contained under the subheadings "Executive Compensation"
and "Compensation of Directors" of the "Election of Directors" section of the
1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference with respect to the
Company's chief executive officer, the four other most highly compensated
executive officers of the Company and the Company's directors.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

        The information contained under the subheadings "Securities Held by
Management" and "Principal Security Holders" of the "Election of Directors"
section of the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference with
respect to certain beneficial owners, the directors and management.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

        The information required for this item is contained in the heading
"Aspect Acquisition" in Note 2 "Acquisitions" in the 1998 Annual Report, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.














                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

       (a) Documents filed as part of this report:

           1. Description of the Business.

                 The general description of the business and its general
           development are contained under the caption "Letter to Shareholders"
           in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated herein
           by reference.

           2. Accountants' Consent and Report on Schedule.

           3. Financial Statement Schedule of the Company.



                 All other schedules for which provision is made in the
           applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange
           Commission are not required under the related instructions or are not
           applicable and, therefore, have been omitted.














                   ACCOUNTANTS' CONSENT AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE

The Board of Directors
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.

       The audits of the consolidated financial statements of The Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries referred to in our report dated December 10,
1998, which is incorporated herein by reference, included the related financial
statement schedule for each of the years in the three-year period ended October
31, 1998 as listed in Item 14 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. This financial
statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule
based on our audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

        We consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement
Nos. 33-50016, 33-11298, 333-22417, 333-25051 and 333-27639 on Form S-3 and
Registration Statement Nos. 333-10997, 33-27938, 33-36325, 33-36326 and
333-58839 on Form S-8 of The Cooper Companies, Inc. of our reports dated
December 10, 1998, relating to the consolidated balance sheets of The Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1998 and 1997 and the related
consolidated statements of income and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended October 31, 1998, and related schedule, which reports
appear in or are incorporated by reference in the October 31, 1998 Annual Report
on Form 10-K of The Cooper Companies, Inc.

                                                          KPMG LLP

San Francisco, California
January 25, 1999














                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                   THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1998



- ---------
All prior periods have been restated to exclude Hospital Group of America as it
was declared a discontinued operation.

(1)     Principally uncollectible accounts written off, net of accounts
        recovered that were previously written off.














3. EXHIBITS.


















* The information called for in this exhibit is contained in Note 4, "Earnings
  Per Share," in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated
  herein by reference.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    August 26, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    September 03, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    September 25, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 02, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 21, 1998 -  Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 26, 1998 --  Item 5.  Other Events.














                                   SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 27, 1999.

                                                THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.

                                                By:  /s/ A. THOMAS BENDER
                                                --------------------------------
                                                        A. THOMAS BENDER
                                                   PRESIDENT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                                      OFFICER AND DIRECTOR

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on the dates set forth opposite their
respective names.
















                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




















* The information called for in this exhibit is contained in Note 4, "Earnings
  Per Share," in the 1998 Annual Report, which information is incorporated
  herein by reference.

(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    August 26, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    September 03, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    September 25, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 02, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 21, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.
    October 26, 1998 -- Item 5.  Other Events.





                           STATEMENTS OF DIFFERENCES

The trademark symbol shall be expressed as..................... 'TM'
The registered symbol shall be expressed as.................... 'r'
The British pound sterling sign shall be expressed as.......... 'L'








