
10-K
COOPER 10-K





________________________________________________________________________________
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993            COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8597
 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
- ----------------------------------------------------------

                                                   201-585-5100
                          (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
 
     Indicate  by check  mark whether the  registrant (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during the preceding  12 months, and  (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [x] No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge,  in definitive proxy  or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]
 
     Aggregate market value of  the voting stock held  by non-affiliates of  the
registrant as of December 31, 1993: Common Stock, $.10 Par Value -- $15,467,238
 
     Number  of  shares  outstanding of  the  registrant's common  stock,  as of
December 31, 1993: 30,129,125
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
                                      None
 
________________________________________________________________________________


 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
INTRODUCTION
 
     The   Cooper  Companies,  Inc.  ('TCC'   or  the  'Company'),  through  its
subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets healthcare products,  including
a range of contact lenses, ophthalmic pharmaceutical products and diagnostic and
surgical  instruments and accessories, and  provides healthcare services through
the ownership and operation of certain psychiatric facilities and the management
of other such facilities. TCC is  a Delaware corporation which was organized  on
March 4, 1980.
 
BUSINESS EXPANSION
 
     TCC disposed of a number of businesses during the 1980s, and by 1989 all of
its  revenues were derived from the sale of contact lenses. Since that time, the
Company has pursued a  strategy of diversification into  other businesses. As  a
result,  total operating revenues  have grown significantly  and for fiscal 1993
can be allocated among  the Company's businesses as  follows: Hospital Group  of
America,  Inc. (including  PSG Management,  Inc.) --  $45,283,000, CooperVision,
Inc. --  $32,120,000,  CooperSurgical,  Inc.  --  $14,679,000  and  CooperVision
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. -- $570,000.
 
     During  fiscal 1990, TCC, through  various subsidiaries, acquired rights to
(i) certain  materials used  to manufacture  contact lenses,  (ii)  cryosurgical
instruments  and diagnostic  devices, (iii)  manufacture, distribute  and sell a
hard and  soft  intraocular  lens and  the  injector  used to  insert  the  soft
intraocular  lens (which rights were subsequently sold), and (iv) two ophthalmic
products.
 
     Early   in   fiscal   1991,   a   newly-formed   subsidiary,   CooperVision
Pharmaceuticals,  Inc., obtained an exclusive license  for the ophthalmic use of
Verapamil, a  Class I  calcium  channel blocker  being  developed as  a  topical
therapeutic  to  treat ocular  hypertension, or  glaucoma,  which could  lead to
damaged eye tissue and loss of  vision. At about the same time,  CooperSurgical,
Inc., another newly-formed subsidiary, purchased a company whose primary product
is  an  office  hysteroscopy system.  Shortly  thereafter,  CooperSurgical, Inc.
acquired another  company,  which  develops  and  markets  surgical  instruments
principally used for performing gynecologic procedures.
 
     In  May 1992,  another newly-formed subsidiary  of TCC acquired  all of the
issued and  outstanding  capital  stock  of  Hospital  Group  of  America,  Inc.
('Original  HGA'), a corporation indirectly owned by Nu-Med, Inc. ('Nu-Med'). In
June 1992, Original  HGA was merged  with and into  TCC's subsidiary, with  that
subsidiary  surviving such  merger and  changing its  name to  Hospital Group of
America, Inc.  ('HGA'). Pursuant  to the  acquisition, HGA  acquired  facilities
providing   both  psychiatric  and  substance   abuse  treatment  for  children,
adolescents and adults.
 
     In addition, PSG Management, Inc.,  another newly-formed subsidiary of  TCC
('PSG Management'), entered into a three-year management services agreement (the
'Management  Services Agreement')  in May  1992, pursuant  to which  it provides
management and administrative services to three facilities still owned by Nu-Med
subsidiaries. Those facilities  provide a  range of  specialized treatments  for
children,  adolescents and adults,  including programs for  women, older adults,
survivors of psychological trauma  and alcohol and  drug abusers. Treatments  at
both  the owned and managed facilities  are provided on an inpatient, outpatient
and partial hospitalization basis.
 
     In April 1993, CooperVision, Inc. acquired all of the stock of CoastVision,
Inc., which  manufactures and  markets  soft toric  contact lenses  designed  to
correct astigmatism.
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT
 
     The  Investment Company  Act of 1940,  as amended  (the 'Investment Company
Act'), places  restrictions  on  the  capital structure  of,  and  the  business
activities  that  may be  undertaken  by, investment  companies.  The Investment
Company Act defines an investment company as, among other things and subject  to
certain  exceptions, an issuer that  is engaged in the  business of investing or
trading in
 

securities and which owns  'investment securities' (as such  term is defined  in
the Investment Company Act) having a value exceeding 40% of the 'value' (as such
term  is defined in the  Investment Company Act) of  such company's total assets
(exclusive of government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated  basis.
Following  the  completion  in  1989 of  the  Company's  divestiture  program, a
substantial  percentage  of  the  Company's  assets  consisted  of  cash,   cash
equivalents  and marketable securities, which the Company used or intended to be
used primarily for  working capital  purposes, to reduce  further the  Company's
debt and to fund acquisitions.
 
     The  Division  of  Investment  Management of  the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission (the 'SEC') has raised an issue  as to whether the Company may be  an
investment  company under the above definition.  The Company has advised the SEC
that its consolidated balance  sheets at July  31, 1992 and at  the last day  of
each  fiscal quarter thereafter demonstrate  that less than 40%  of the value of
the Company's total assets (exclusive  of government securities and cash  items)
consists  of investment  securities, and that,  if such balance  sheets had been
presented on an unconsolidated basis, the value (for purposes of the  Investment
Company  Act) of the  Company's investments in and  advances to its subsidiaries
that are actively engaged  in various aspects of  the healthcare business  would
have been significantly in excess of the carrying value of the underlying assets
of  those subsidiaries that was included in the consolidated balance sheets. The
Company  has  provided  the  SEC   with  information  regarding  the   Company's
unconsolidated  balance  sheets  at April  30  and  July 31,  1993.  The Company
believes that this  information also  demonstrates that  the Company  is not  an
investment  company within the meaning of the  Investment Company Act. As of the
date hereof, the  Company is  continuing to  work with  the SEC  to clarify  the
Company's  status under the Investment Company Act. If the Company were found to
be an investment  company, the Company  believes that such  status would have  a
materially  adverse effect upon the Company  due to the restrictions which would
be placed on its capital structure and business activities.
 
COOPERVISION
 
     The Company, through  its CooperVision,  Inc. subsidiary  ('CooperVision'),
develops,  manufactures and markets a  range of hard and  soft contact lenses in
the United States  and Canada.  Sales of soft  contact lenses  represent 98%  of
CooperVision's  total lens sales. Of CooperVision's line of soft contact lenses,
approximately 75% of  the lenses sold  are conventional daily  or flexible  wear
lenses and approximately 25% constitute frequent replacement lenses.
 
     CooperVision's  major  brand  name  lenses  are  Preference'r', Vantage'r',
Permaflex'r', Permalens'r', Cooper Clear'tm'  and Hydrasoft'r'. These and  other
products  enable CooperVision to fit the needs  of a diverse group of wearers by
offering lenses formulated from a variety of polymers containing varying amounts
of water, having different  design parameters, diameters,  base curves and  lens
edges and different degrees of oxygen permeability. Certain lenses offer special
features  such as  protection against ultraviolet  light, color  tint or aphakic
correction. Lenses are also available in a wide range of prices.
 
     Preference'r'  is  a  frequent  replacement  product  developed  using  the
Tetrafilcon  A polymer. When Preference'r' was compared to other leading planned
replacement contact  lenses, in  two studies  conducted at  an aggregate  of  22
investigative  sites  using 505  patients,  Tetrafilcon A  demonstrated superior
resistance to the formation of deposits on lens surfaces. Preference'r' was test
marketed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1991 and introduced in fiscal 1992.
 
     CooperVision acquired  CoastVision, Inc.  ('CoastVision'), a  contact  lens
company  which designs, manufactures and markets  high quality soft toric lenses
(the majority of  which are custom  made) designed to  correct astigmatism.  The
acquisition  enables  CooperVision to  expand into  an  additional niche  in the
contact lens market and to enlarge its customer base.
 
     CooperVision is continuing to explore opportunities to expand and diversify
its business into additional niche markets.
 
COOPERVISION PHARMACEUTICALS
 
     CooperVision Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ('CVP'),  a development stage  business,
develops  and markets ophthalmic pharmaceuticals. In February 1993, CVP sold its
EYEscrub'tm' product line while retaining
 
 

the right to market two medical product kits which include EYEscrub'tm'. Several
other products discussed below are in various stages of clinical development.
 
     In 1993, CVP  continued the clinical  development of Verapamil,  a Class  I
calcium  channel blocker,  as a  potential anti-glaucoma  compound. CVP received
U.S. Food  and Drug  Administration ('FDA')  clearance to  begin human  clinical
trials  in  June  1991. Phase  I  clinical  trials were  initiated  in  1991 and
completed in 1992. Phase II clinical trials were initiated in 1992 and have been
completed. Phase III clinical trials commenced during 1993.
 
     Rose Bengal,  Phenyltrope'r'  and other  products  are being  developed  as
diagnostic  aids for  use by eye-care  professionals. During 1993,  a filing was
made with the FDA seeking clearance to  begin marketing Rose Bengal. A New  Drug
Application for Phenyltrope'r' will be submitted to the FDA in fiscal 1994.
 
     In  1993, CVP began  to market a line  of prescription and over-the-counter
ophthalmic pharmaceuticals.  The  prescription line  consists  of  antibacterial
products, anti-inflammatory products, glaucoma treatment products and diagnostic
dilating  agents. The non-prescription offerings are intended to be used as tear
replacements.
 
COOPERSURGICAL
 
     CooperSurgical, Inc. ('CooperSurgical') was established in November 1990 to
compete in  niche  segments  of  the  rapidly  expanding  worldwide  market  for
diagnostic and surgical instruments and accessories. Its business is developing,
manufacturing   and  distributing  electrosurgical,   cryosurgical  and  general
application diagnostic and surgical  instruments and equipment used  selectively
in   both  traditional  and  minimally   invasive  surgical  procedures.  Unlike
traditional surgical instruments, electrosurgical instruments, which operate  by
means of high radio frequency, dissect and cause coagulation, making them useful
in  surgical  procedures  to  minimize  blood  loss.  Cryosurgical  equipment is
differentiated by its ability to apply cold or sub-zero temperatures to the body
in order to cause adhesion, provoke an inflammatory response or destroy diseased
tissue.
 
     CooperSurgical's loop electrosurgical excision procedure products, marketed
under the LEEP'tm' brand name, are viewed as an improvement over existing  laser
treatments  for primary use in the removal of cervical and vaginal pre-cancerous
tissue and benign external lesions. Unlike laser ablation which tends to destroy
tissue, the  electrosurgery  procedure  removes  affected  tissue  with  minimal
charring,  thereby improving the opportunity  to obtain an accurate histological
analysis of the patient's  condition by producing a  viable tissue specimen  for
biopsy  purposes. In  addition, the  loop electrosurgical  excision procedure is
less painful than laser ablation and is easily learned by practitioners. Because
this procedure enables a  gynecologist to both diagnose  and treat a patient  in
one office visit, patients incur lower costs.
 
     CooperSurgical's   LEEP  System   6000'tm'  branded   products  include  an
electrosurgical generator, sterile single  application LEEP Electrodes'tm',  the
CooperSurgical   Smoke  Evacuation  System  6080,   a  single  application  LEEP
RediKit'r', a series of  educational video tapes and  a line of coated  LEEP'tm'
surgical instruments.
 
     CooperSurgical's  Euro-Med mail order business offers over 400 products for
use in gynecologic and general surgical  procedures. Over 60% of these  products
are exclusive to Euro-Med, including its 'signature' instrument series, cervical
biopsy  punches,  clear  plastic  instruments  used  for  unobstructed  viewing,
titanium instruments  used in  laser surgeries,  colposcopy procedure  kits  and
instrument  care and sterilization systems. Euro-Med recently introduced its FNA
21'tm' for fine needle aspiration from  the breast, thyroid and salivary  glands
of lymphoma and other tumors.
 
     The  CooperSurgical  Diagnostic  Office  Hysteroscopy  System  3000'tm'  is
designed for in-office use by gynecologists. The system includes a hysteroscope,
light source, monitor, solid state video camera and the Diagnostic  Hysteroscopy
RediKit'r', a prepackaged, disposable procedure kit.
 
     CooperSurgical's  Frigitronics'r'  instruments  for  cryosurgery  are  used
primarily in  dermatologic  procedures  to treat  skin  cancers,  in  ophthalmic
procedures  to treat  retinal detachments and  remove cataracts,  and in certain
gynecologic,  cardiovascular  and  general  surgical  procedures.  The   primary
 
 

products  bearing the Frigitronics brand name are the Model 310 Zoom Colposcope,
the CCS-200 Cardiac Cryosurgical System, the Model 2000 Ophthalmic  Cryosurgical
System and the Cryo-Plus System.
 
     Since  October 1992,  CooperSurgical has  also offered  its CooperEndoscopy
line of endoscopic instruments which enable physicians to conduct abdominal  and
thoracic  exploration using minimally invasive procedures. Included in that line
are the  LSS'tm'  500  Electronic  Laparoscopic  Insufflator,  the  LSS'tm'  600
Electronic  Auto  Shutter  Endoscopic Camera  System  and the  LSS'tm'  700 High
Intensity Xenon Light Source.
 
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA
 
     On May  29, 1992,  HGA acquired  three psychiatric  facilities through  the
acquisition  of  Original  HGA:  Hartgrove Hospital  in  Chicago,  Illinois (119
licensed beds), Hampton Hospital  in Rancocas, New  Jersey (100 licensed  beds),
and MeadowWood Hospital in New Castle, Delaware (50 licensed beds). In addition,
the Company, through its subsidiary, PSG Management, entered into the Management
Services  Agreement  with three  indirectly owned  subsidiaries of  Nu-Med under
which it assumed the  management of three psychiatric  facilities owned by  such
subsidiaries:   Northwestern  Institute   of  Psychiatry   in  Fort  Washington,
Pennsylvania (146 licensed beds), Malvern Institute for Psychiatric and  Alcohol
Studies  in Malvern, Pennsylvania (36 licensed  beds), and Pinelands Hospital in
Nacogdoches, Texas (40 licensed beds).
 
     The HGA facilities provide intensive and structured treatment for children,
adolescents and  adults suffering  from  a variety  of mental  illnesses  and/or
chemical  dependencies. Services include  comprehensive psychiatric and chemical
dependency  evaluations,  inpatient   and  outpatient   treatment  and   partial
hospitalization.  In response  to market  demands for  an expanded  continuum of
care,  HGA  is  in  the  process   of  expanding  its  outpatient  and   partial
hospitalization programs.
 
     The  following  is a  comparison of  certain  statistical data  relating to
inpatient treatment for  fiscal years 1991,  1992 and 1993  for the  psychiatric
facilities owned by HGA:
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Reflects  operations of HGA when owned by Nu-Med and, after May 29, 1992, by
    TCC.
 
     Each  psychiatric  facility  is  accredited  by  the  Joint  Commission  of
Accreditation   of  Healthcare  Organizations   (JCAHO),  a  voluntary  national
organization  which  periodically  undertakes   a  comprehensive  review  of   a
facility's  staff,  programs, physical  plant  and policies  and  procedures for
purposes of accreditation of  such healthcare facility. Accreditation  generally
is  required for  patients to  receive insurance  company reimbursement  and for
participation by the facility in government sponsored provider programs.
 
     HGA periodically conducts audits of  the facilities of its subsidiaries  to
ensure  compliance with applicable practices, procedures and regulations. In the
course of an  ongoing audit that  was recently commenced,  HGA has learned  that
there  may be certain  irregularities at Hampton  Hospital (the primary facility
operated by HGA's subsidiary, Hospital Group  of New Jersey, Inc.) with  respect
to certain billings for clinical services. The provision of clinical services at
Hampton   Hospital,  as  well  as  the   billing  for  such  services,  are  the
responsibility of  an  independent  medical  group  under  contract  to  Hampton
Hospital.  Consequently, HGA has not  yet been able to  determine if any billing
irregularities have  occurred.  It  is, however,  currently  investigating  this
matter  and has requested  the production of  the billing records.  To date, the
independent medical group has refused  to cooperate. HGA considers this  refusal
to  be a breach  of the contract  between the parties  and is in  the process of
evaluating its options.
 
     The Management Services Agreement provides for the contracting subsidiaries
to pay  to PSG  Management a  $6,000,000  fee (the  'Management Fee')  in  equal
monthly installments over the three-
 
 

year term (subject to prior termination in accordance with its terms, upon which
termination  all or a portion of such Management Fee becomes immediately due and
payable). Payments of the Management Fee are jointly and severally guaranteed by
Nu-Med and  its  subsidiary PsychGroup,  Inc.,  the parent  of  the  contracting
subsidiaries.  On January 6, 1993, Nu-Med (but not any of its direct or indirect
subsidiaries) filed a voluntary petition under  Chapter 11 of the United  States
Bankruptcy  Code. Neither the Company nor any  of its subsidiaries filed a proof
of claim in the  Nu-Med Chapter 11  proceeding, and the bar  date (the time  for
filing  proofs of claim)  has past. None  of the Nu-Med  subsidiaries have filed
under Chapter 11 and,  to date, they  have paid the Management  Fee on a  timely
basis,  although representatives of Nu-Med and  its subsidiaries have alleged in
writing that  PSG  Management has  breached  the Management  Services  Agreement
(which  contention  PSG  Management  vigorously  disputes).  Moreover,  Nu-Med's
Proposed  Disclosure  Statement  to  accompany   its  Second  Amended  Plan   of
Reorganization,  filed with the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the Central
District  of  California,   indicates  that  PsychGroup,   Inc.  is   commencing
performance of certain administrative functions performed by PSG Management on a
parallel basis.
 
     On October 9, 1992, HGA filed a complaint against Nu-Med and several of its
subsidiaries  asserting claims in  excess of $4  million and asserted additional
claims against the same  defendants in excess of  an additional $6 million  that
are  to be resolved by  an independent auditor. In  both instances, HGA's claims
arose from  the  defendants'  alleged  breaches of  certain  provisions  in  the
acquisition  agreement pursuant  to which the  HGA facilities  were acquired. As
indicated, the  Company and  its subsidiaries  did  not file  a proof  of  claim
against  Nu-Med, and the  bar date has passed.  Since Nu-Med's subsidiaries have
not filed under Chapter 11, the bar  date is not applicable with respect to  the
Company's  claims  against  Nu-Med's  subsidiaries and  those  claims  are still
pending.
 
     Patient and Third Party Payments. HGA receives payment for its  psychiatric
services  either  from  patients,  from their  health  insurers  or  through the
Medicare, Medicaid and Civilian Health and Medical Program of Uniformed Services
('CHAMPUS') governmental programs. Medicare is a federal program which  entitles
persons  65 and over to a lifetime benefit of  up to 190 days as an inpatient in
an acute psychiatric facility. Persons  defined as disabled, regardless of  age,
also  receive  this  benefit. Medicaid  is  a  joint federal  and  state program
available to  persons with  limited financial  resources. CHAMPUS  is a  federal
program  which  provides  health  insurance  for  active  and  retired  military
personnel and their dependents.
 
     While other programs may  exist or be  adopted in different  jurisdictions,
the  following four  categories include all  methods by which  HGA's three owned
facilities receive payment for services:
 
          (a) Standard  reimbursement, consisting  of  payment by  patients  and
     their  health insurers, is based  on a facility's schedule  of rates and is
     not subject to negotiation with insurance companies, competitive bidding or
     governmental limitation.
 
          (b) Negotiated rate reimbursement is at prices established in  advance
     by negotiation or competitive bidding for contracts with insurers and other
     payors  such as  managed care  companies, health  maintenance organizations
     ('HMO'), preferred provider organizations ('PPO') and similar organizations
     which can provide a reasonable number of referrals.
 
          (c) Cost-based reimbursement  is predicated on  the allowable cost  of
     services,  plus, in  certain cases, an  incentive payment  where costs fall
     below a target  rate. It  is used by  Medicare, Medicaid  and certain  Blue
     Cross insurance programs to provide reimbursement in amounts lower than the
     schedule of rates in effect at an HGA facility.
 
          (d) CHAMPUS reimbursement is at either (1) regionally set rates, (2) a
     national  rate adjusted  upward periodically on  the basis  of the Medicare
     Market Basket  Index  or (3)  a  fixed discount  rate  per day  at  certain
     facilities where CHAMPUS contracts with a benefit administration group.
 
 

     The  approximate percentages of HGA's net patient revenue by payment source
are as follows:
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Reflects operations of HGA when owned by Nu-Med and, after May 29, 1992,  by
    TCC.
 
(2) Consists of self-payors and other miscellaneous payors.
 
     The  Medicare, Medicaid and  CHAMPUS programs are  subject to statutory and
regulatory changes  and interpretations,  utilization reviews  and  governmental
funding  restrictions, all of which may  materially increase or decrease program
payments and the cost of providing services,  as well as the timing of  payments
to the facilities.
 
     Existing  and Proposed Legislation.  In recent years,  forms of prospective
reimbursement legislation have been proposed in various states but have not been
enacted into  law. If  legislation based  on the  budgeted costs  of  individual
hospitals were to be enacted in the future in one or more of the states in which
HGA  operates psychiatric facilities,  it could have an  adverse effect on HGA's
business and earnings. In addition, the enactment of such legislation in  states
where  HGA does not now operate could have a deterrent effect on the decision to
acquire or establish facilities in such states.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     During the fiscal years ended October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, expenditures
for Company-sponsored research and  development were $3,209,000, $3,267,000  and
$2,268,000,  respectively.  During  fiscal  1993,  approximately  51%  of  those
expenditures was  incurred by  CVP, 24%  was incurred  by CooperVision  and  the
balance  was  incurred  by CooperSurgical.  No  customer-sponsored  research and
development has been conducted.
 
     The  Company  employs  14  people  in  its  research  and  development  and
manufacturing engineering departments. Product development and clinical research
for  CooperVision products are supported by  outside specialists in lens design,
formulation  science,  polymer  chemistry,  microbiology  and  biochemistry.  At
CooperVision,  experienced  employees  work  with  outside  consultants. Product
research and development for CooperSurgical is conducted in-house and by outside
surgical specialists, including members of both the CooperSurgical and  Euro-Med
surgical advisory boards.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Healthcare  Products. The development, testing, production and marketing of
the Company's healthcare  products is subject  to the authority  of the FDA  and
other  federal agencies  as well  as foreign  ministries of  health. The Federal
Food, Drug  and Cosmetic  Act  and other  statutes  and regulations  govern  the
testing,  manufacturing, labeling,  storage, advertising  and promotion  of such
products. Noncompliance with applicable regulations can result in fines, product
recall or seizure, suspension of production and criminal prosecution.
 
     The Company is currently developing and marketing both medical devices  and
drug products. Medical devices are subject to different levels of FDA regulation
depending  upon the  classification of  the device.  Class III  devices, such as
contact lenses,  require extensive  premarket testing  and approval  procedures,
while  Class  I and  II devices  are  subject to  substantially lower  levels of
regulation.
 
     A multi-step procedure must be completed  before a new contact lens can  be
sold  commercially. Data must be compiled on the chemistry and toxicology of the
lens, its microbiological  profile and the  proposed manufacturing process.  All
data  generated must be submitted to the FDA in support of an application for an
Investigational Device Exemption. Once granted, clinical trials may be initiated
 
 

subject to the review and approval of an Institutional Review Board and, where a
lens is determined to be a significant risk device, the FDA. Upon completion  of
clinical trials, a Premarket Approval Application must be submitted and approved
by the FDA before commercialization may begin.
 
     The  ophthalmic pharmaceutical  products under  development by  the Company
require extensive testing before marketing approval may be obtained. Preclinical
laboratory studies are conducted to determine  the safety and efficacy of a  new
drug.   The  results  of  these   studies  are  submitted  to   the  FDA  in  an
Investigational New Drug Application under which the Company seeks clearance  to
commence  human  clinical  trials.  The initial  clinical  evaluation,  Phase I,
consists of  administering the  drug  and evaluating  its safety  and  tolerance
levels.  Phase II involves studies to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug for
a particular indication, to  determine optimal dosage  and to identify  possible
side  effects. If the new  drug is found to  be potentially effective, Phase III
studies, which consist  of additional testing  for safety and  efficacy with  an
expanded  patient group, are  undertaken. If results  of the studies demonstrate
safety and  efficacy, marketing  approval is  sought from  the FDA  by means  of
filing a New Drug Application.
 
     The  Company, in  connection with  some of  its new  surgical products, can
submit premarket notification to the FDA under an expedited procedure known as a
510(k) application, which  is available  for any product  that is  substantially
equivalent to a device marketed prior to May 28, 1976. If the new product is not
substantially equivalent to a pre-existing device or if the FDA were to reject a
claim  of substantial  equivalence, extensive  preclinical and  clinical testing
would be required, additional  costs would be incurred  and a substantial  delay
would occur before the product could be brought to market.
 
     FDA  and  state  regulations  also require  adherence  to  applicable 'good
manufacturing practices' ('GMP'), which  mandate detailed quality assurance  and
record-keeping  procedures. In conjunction therewith,  the Company is subject to
unscheduled periodic  regulatory  inspections. The  Company  believes it  is  in
substantial compliance with GMP regulations.
 
     The  Company also  is subject  to foreign  regulatory authorities governing
human clinical trials and pharmaceutical/medical  device sales that vary  widely
from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval
of  a product by comparable regulatory  authorities of foreign countries must be
obtained before  products  may be  marketed  in those  countries.  The  approval
process  varies from country to country, and  the time required may be longer or
shorter than that required for FDA approval.
 
     The  procedures  described  above  involve  expenditures  of   considerable
resources  and usually result in a  substantial time lag between the development
of a new  product and its  introduction into  the marketplace. There  can be  no
assurance  that all necessary approvals  will be obtained, or  that they will be
obtained in a time frame that allows the product to be introduced for commercial
sale in a  timely manner.  Furthermore, product  approvals may  be withdrawn  if
compliance  with regulatory  standards is  not maintained  or if  problems occur
after marketing has begun.
 
     Healthcare Facilities.  The  healthcare  services industry  is  subject  to
substantial  federal, state and local  regulation. Government regulation affects
the Company's business by controlling the use of its properties and  controlling
reimbursement   for  services  provided.   Licensing,  certification  and  other
applicable governmental regulations vary  from jurisdiction to jurisdiction  and
are revised periodically.
 
     The  Company's facilities  must comply  with the  licensing requirements of
federal, state and local health agencies and with the requirements of  municipal
building  codes, health codes  and local fire department  codes. In granting and
renewing a  facility's license,  a state  health agency  considers, among  other
things,   the   condition  of   the  physical   buildings  and   equipment,  the
qualifications of  the  administrative  personnel and  professional  staff,  the
quality of professional and other services and the continuing compliance of such
facility with applicable laws and regulations.
 
     Most  states in  which the Company  operates or manages  facilities have in
effect certificate of need statutes. State certificate of need statutes provide,
generally, that  prior to  the construction  of new  healthcare facilities,  the
addition  of new beds or the introduction of  a new service, a state agency must
determine that  a  need  exists  for  those  facilities,  beds  or  services.  A
certificate  of  need  is generally  issued  for  a specific  maximum  amount of
expenditures or number  of beds or  types of  services to be  provided, and  the
holder is generally required to implement the approved project within a specific
time period.
 
 

Certificate  of  need issuances  for new  facilities are  extremely competitive,
often with several applicants for a single certificate of need.
 
     Each Company owned or managed facility  that is eligible (five of the  six)
is  certified or  approved as a  provider under one  or more of  the Medicaid or
Medicare programs. In  order to  receive Medicare  reimbursement, each  facility
must  meet the applicable conditions promulgated by the United States Department
of Health and Human  Services relating to the  type of facility, its  equipment,
its personnel and its standards of patient care.
 
     The  Social Security Act contains a number of provisions designed to ensure
that services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid patients are medically necessary
and  meet  professionally  recognized  standards.  Those  provisions  include  a
requirement  that  admissions of  Medicare and  Medicaid patients  to healthcare
facilities must  be  reviewed  in  a timely  manner  to  determine  the  medical
necessity  of the  admissions. In addition,  the Peer Review  Improvement Act of
1982 provides  that  a  healthcare  facility may  be  required  by  the  federal
government  to reimburse the  government for the  cost of Medicare-paid services
determined by a peer review organization to have been medically unnecessary.
 
     Various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers
of healthcare services  and physicians. Among  these laws are  the Medicare  and
Medicaid  Anti-Fraud  and Abuse  Amendments to  the  Social Security  Act, which
prohibit individuals  or  entities participating  in  the Medicare  or  Medicaid
programs  from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving
remuneration in order to induce referrals for items or services reimbursed under
those programs.
 
     In addition,  specific laws  exist  that regulate  certain aspects  of  the
Company's  business, such as the commitment of patients to psychiatric hospitals
and disclosure  of information  regarding patients  being treated  for  chemical
dependency.  Many states  have adopted a  'patient's bill of  rights' which sets
forth standards for  dealing with issues  such as use  of the least  restrictive
treatment, patient confidentiality, patient access to telephones, mail and legal
counsel and requiring the patient to be treated with dignity.
 
     Healthcare  Reform. On  October 27,  1993, President  Clinton delivered his
Administration's proposal  for national  health care  reform to  Congress.  This
complex  proposal contains provisions  designed to control  and reduce growth in
public and private spending on health care and to reform the payment methodology
for health care goods  and services by both  the public (Medicare and  Medicaid)
and  private sectors, including overall limitations on future growth in spending
for health care benefits and the  provision of universal access to health  care.
Currently,  there  are pending  before  Congress several  competing  health care
reform proposals which, through varying  mechanisms and methodologies, are  also
intended  to control or reduce public and private spending on health care. It is
uncertain which, if any, of these proposals will be adopted by Congress or  what
actions  federal, state or private payors for health care goods and services may
take in response thereto. The Company cannot yet predict the effect such reforms
or the prospect of their enactment may  have on the business of the Company  and
its  subsidiaries. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the same will not
have a  material adverse  effect on  the Company's  revenues, earnings  or  cash
flows.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     In  general,  raw materials  required  by CooperVision  consist  of various
polymers as well  as packaging materials.  Alternative sources of  all of  these
materials  are available. Raw materials used  by CooperSurgical or its suppliers
are generally available  from a  variety of sources.  Products manufactured  for
CooperSurgical  are  generally available  from  more than  one  source. However,
because   some   products   require   specialized   manufacturing    procedures,
CooperSurgical   could   experience  inventory   shortages  if   an  alternative
manufacturer had to be secured on short notice.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     CooperVision  manufactures  products  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.
CooperSurgical manufactures products in the United States and Europe.
 
     Pursuant  to a supply  agreement entered into in  May 1989 and subsequently
amended between  the Company  and Pilkington  plc, the  buyer of  the  Company's
contact lens business outside of the United
 
 

States  and Canada,  CooperVision purchases  certain of  its product  lines from
Pilkington  plc   (see  Note   14)(1).   These  purchased   lenses   represented
approximately 28%, 31% and 40% of the total number of lenses sold by the Company
in fiscal 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Healthcare  Products. In the United States and Canada, CooperVision markets
its  products   through   its  field   sales   representatives,  who   call   on
ophthalmologists,  optometrists,  opticians and  optical  chains. In  the United
States, field sales representatives also call on distributors.
 
     CVP's line of generic pharmaceuticals  is sold directly to wholesalers  and
distributors through an independent contract sales force and by the sales forces
of CooperVision and CoastVision.
 
     CooperSurgical's  LEEP'tm',  Frigitronics'r',  hysteroscopy  and  endoscopy
products  are   marketed   worldwide  by   a   network  of   independent   sales
representatives  and distributors.  In the  United States,  CooperSurgical, as a
principal method of  increasing physician awareness  of its products,  conducted
teaching  seminars in fiscal 1993. Euro-Med  instruments and systems, as well as
certain LEEP'tm' disposable products, are  marketed through direct mail  catalog
programs.
 
     Healthcare  Facilities.  HGA's  marketing  concept  aims  to  position each
psychiatric facility  as  the provider  of  the highest  quality  mental  health
services  in its marketplace. HGA employs  a combination of general advertising,
toll-free  'help  lines',  community   education  programs  and   facility-based
continuing  education programs  to underscore the  facility's value  as a mental
health resource center. HGA's marketing emphasizes discrete programs for  select
illnesses  or disorders because  of its belief that  marketing a generic product
without program differentiation  will not  generate the  interest of,  or be  of
value  to, a referral source seeking  treatment for specific disorders. Referral
sources include psychiatrists, other physicians, psychologists, social  workers,
school  guidance  counselors  and  the  police,  courts,  clergy,  care-provider
organizations and former patients.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS
 
     TCC owns or licenses  a variety of domestic  and foreign patents which,  in
the  aggregate, are  material to  its businesses. CooperVision  is a  party to a
licensing agreement under which it holds a perpetual, royalty free, nonexclusive
right to make, have made and sell contact lenses utilizing a polymer owned by  a
third  party. CooperVision's ability to utilize  that polymer is material to its
business. Unexpired terms of  TCC's United States patents  range from less  than
one  year to a  maximum of 17 years.  CVP has the exclusive  license to the U.S.
patent for the  use of  Class I  calcium channel  blockers as  agents to  reduce
intraocular  pressure in  ocular hypertensive conditions  including glaucoma. In
addition, CVP has filed and/or is in  the process of filing additional U.S.  and
international patent applications.
 
     As  indicated in the references to such  products in this Item 1, the names
of certain of  TCC's products  are protected  by trademark  registration in  the
United  States Patent  and Trademark Office  and, in some  instances, in foreign
trademark offices as  well. Applications  are pending  for additional  trademark
registrations.  TCC considers these  trademarks to be  valuable because of their
contribution to the market identification of its various products.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON CUSTOMERS
 
     At this time, no material portion of TCC's businesses is dependent upon any
one customer or upon any one affiliated group of customers.
 
- ------------
(1) All references  to  Note  numbers  shall  constitute  the  incorporation  by
    reference  of  the text  of  the specific  Note  contained in  the  Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company located in Item 8 into  the
    Item number in which it appears.
 
 

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     No  material portion  of TCC's  businesses is  subject to  renegotiation of
profits or  termination of  contracts or  subcontracts at  the election  of  the
United States government.
 
COMPETITION
 
     No  single  company  competes  with  the Company  in  all  of  its industry
segments; however,  each of  TCC's business  segments operates  within a  highly
competitive  environment. Competition in the healthcare industry revolves around
the search  for technological  and therapeutic  innovations in  the  prevention,
diagnosis  and treatment  of illness or  disease. TCC competes  primarily on the
basis of product  quality, technological  benefit, service  and reliability,  as
perceived by medical professionals.
 
     Healthcare  Products. Numerous companies are engaged in the development and
manufacture of  contact  lenses  and  ophthalmic  pharmaceuticals.  CooperVision
competes primarily on the basis of product quality, service and reputation among
medical  professionals and by  its participation in  specialty niche markets. It
has been, and continues to be, the sponsor of clinical lens studies intended  to
generate  information leading to the improvement of CooperVision's lenses from a
medical point of view.  Major competitors have  greater financial resources  and
larger research and development and sales forces than CooperVision. Furthermore,
many  of  these competitors  offer a  greater  range of  contact lenses,  plus a
variety of other eye care products, which gives them a competitive advantage  in
marketing their lenses.
 
     In   the  surgical  segment,  competitive  factors  are  technological  and
scientific advances,  product  quality,  price and  effective  communication  of
product information to physicians and hospitals. CooperSurgical believes that it
benefits,  in part, from the technological advantages of certain of its products
and from the  ongoing development  of new  medical procedures,  which creates  a
market  for equipment and instruments specifically  tailored for use in such new
procedures. CooperSurgical competes  by focusing on  distinct niche markets  and
supplying medical personnel working in those markets with equipment, instruments
and  disposable products  that are  high in  quality and  that, with  respect to
certain procedures, enable a medical practitioner to obtain from one source  all
of  the equipment, instruments and disposable  products required to perform such
procedure. As CooperSurgical develops products to be used in the performance  of
new  medical  procedures, it  offers training  to  medical professionals  in the
performance of  such  procedures.  CooperSurgical  competes  with  a  number  of
manufacturers  in each of its niche markets, including larger manufacturers that
have greater financial and personnel  resources and sell a substantially  larger
number of product lines.
 
     Healthcare Facilities. In most areas in which HGA operates, there are other
psychiatric  facilities  that provide  services comparable  to those  offered by
HGA's  facilities.  Some   of  those  facilities   are  owned  by   governmental
organizations,  not-for-profit organizations or  investor-owned companies having
substantially greater resources than HGA and, in some cases, tax-exempt  status.
Psychiatric  facilities  frequently  draw  patients  from  areas  outside  their
immediate locale,  therefore, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities compete  with  both
local  and distant facilities. In  addition, psychiatric facilities also compete
with psychiatric units  in acute care  hospitals. HGA's strategy  is to  develop
high  quality programs  designed to  target specific  disorders and  to retain a
highly qualified professional staff.
 
BACKLOG
 
     TCC does not consider backlog to be a material factor in its businesses.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     HGA's psychiatric facilities experience a decline in occupancy rates during
the summer months when school is not in session and during the year-end  holiday
season. No other material portion of TCC's businesses is seasonal.
 
 

COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
 
     Federal,  state and local provisions  regulating the discharge of materials
into  the  environment,  or  otherwise   relating  to  the  protection  of   the
environment,  do  not  currently  have  a  material  effect  upon  TCC's capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
WORKING CAPITAL
 
     TCC's  businesses   have  not   required  any   material  working   capital
arrangements  in the past five  years. In light of  the substantial reduction in
TCC's cash  items and  temporary  investments and  the  net cash  outflow  still
anticipated by the Company, the Company is considering a variety of alternatives
to  obtain funds through borrowings or other  financings or sales of assets. See
Item 7 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  Results
of Operations -- Capital Resources and Liquidity.'
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
     Note  16 sets  forth financial information  with respect  to TCC's business
segments and sales in different geographic areas.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     On October 31, 1993,  TCC and its  subsidiaries employed approximately  970
persons.  In  addition, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities are  staffed  by licensed
physicians who  have  been  admitted  to the  medical  staff  of  an  individual
facility.  Certain of  those physicians are  not employees of  HGA. TCC believes
that its relations with its employees are good.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The following are TCC's principal facilities as of December 31, 1993:
 

 
                                                  (table continued on next page)
 
 

(table continued from previous page)
 

 
- ------------
(1) Outstanding loans totaling $13,718,000 as of October 31, 1993, were  secured
    by these properties.
(2) Does not include optional renewal periods.
 
     The  Company  believes its  properties are  suitable  and adequate  for its
businesses.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The Company is a  defendant in a  number of legal  actions relating to  its
past or present businesses in which plaintiffs are seeking damages.
 
     On  November  10,  1992, the  Company  was  charged in  an  indictment (the
'Indictment'), filed  in  the United  States  District Court  for  the  Southern
District  of  New  York, with  violating  federal  criminal laws  relating  to a
'trading scheme' by  Gary A. Singer,  a former Co-Chairman  of the Company  (who
went  on a leave of absence on May 28, 1992, begun at the Company's request, and
who subsequently resigned on January 20, 1994), and others, including G.  Albert
Griggs, Jr., a former analyst with The Keystone Group, Inc., and John D. Collins
II,  to 'frontrun'  high yield bond  purchases by the  Keystone Custodian Funds,
Inc., a  group of  mutual funds.  The Company  was named  as a  defendant in  10
counts.  Gary Singer was named as a defendant in 24 counts, including violations
of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the mail and  wire
fraud  statutes  (including defrauding  the Company  by  virtue of  the 'trading
scheme,' by, among other things, transferring profits on trades of DR  Holdings,
Inc.  15.5% bonds (the 'DR  Holdings Bonds') from the  Company to members of his
family during  fiscal  1991),  money  laundering,  conspiracy,  and  aiding  and
abetting  violations of  the Investment  Advisers Act  of 1940,  as amended (the
'Investment Advisers Act'), by an investment advisor.
 
     On January 13, 1994,  the Company was  found guilty on  six counts of  mail
fraud and one count of wire fraud based upon Mr. Singer's conduct, but acquitted
of  charges of conspiracy  and aiding and abetting  violations of the Investment
Advisers Act. Mr. Singer was  found guilty on 21  counts. One count against  Mr.
Singer  and the Company was dismissed at trial and two counts against Mr. Singer
relating to  forfeiture  penalties  were resolved  by  stipulation  between  the
government  and  Mr. Singer.  Sentencing is  scheduled for  March 25,  1994. The
maximum penalty which  could be imposed  on the  Company is the  greater of  (i)
$500,000  per count, (ii) twice the gross gain derived from the offense or (iii)
twice the gross loss suffered by the  victim of the offense, and a $200  special
assessment.  In addition to the  penalties described in (i),  (ii) or (iii), the
Court could order the  Company to make restitution.  The Company is  considering
its options, including filing an appeal of its conviction. Mr. Singer's attorney
has  advised  the Company  that  Mr. Singer  intends  to appeal  his conviction.
Although the Company may be obligated under its Certificate of Incorporation  to
advance  the costs of such  appeal, the Company and  Mr. Singer have agreed that
Mr. Singer will not request such advances,  but that he will reserve his  rights
to indemnification in the event of a successful appeal.
 
     Also  on November 10, 1992,  the SEC filed a  civil Complaint for Permanent
Injunction and Other Equitable Relief (the 'SEC Complaint') in the United States
District Court for the Southern District  of New York against the Company,  Gary
A.  Singer, Steven G.  Singer (the Company's Executive  Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer and Gary Singer's brother), and, as relief defendants, certain
persons related to  Gary and Steven  Singer and certain  entities in which  they
and/or  those related persons  have an interest. The  SEC Complaint alleges that
the Company and Gary and Steven Singer
 
 

violated various provisions of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as  amended
(the 'Securities Exchange Act'), including certain of its antifraud and periodic
reporting provisions, and aided and abetted violations of the Investment Company
Act,  and the Investment  Advisors Act, in connection  with the 'trading scheme'
described in the preceding paragraphs. The SEC Complaint further alleges,  among
other  things, federal  securities law  violations (i)  by the  Company and Gary
Singer in connection with  an alleged manipulation of  the trading price of  the
Company's  10  5/8%  Convertible  Subordinated Reset  Debentures  due  2005 (the
'Debentures') to avoid  an interest rate  reset allegedly required  on June  15,
1991  under the terms  of the Indenture  governing the Debentures,  (ii) by Gary
Singer  in  allegedly  transferring  profits  on  trades  of  high  yield  bonds
(including  those trades  in the  DR Holdings  Bonds which  were the  subject of
certain counts of the Indictment of which Mr. Singer was found guilty) from  the
Company  to members of his  family and failing to  disclose such transactions to
the Company and (iii) by the Company in failing to disclose publicly on a timely
basis such transactions by Gary Singer. The SEC Complaint asks that the  Company
and Gary and Steven Singer be enjoined permanently from violating the antifraud,
periodic  reporting and  other provisions of  the federal  securities laws, that
they disgorge the amounts  of the alleged profits  received by them pursuant  to
the  alleged frauds (stated in the SEC's Litigation Release No. 13432 announcing
the filing of the  SEC Complaint as being  $1,296,406, $2,323,180 and  $174,705,
respectively),  plus interest, and that they each pay appropriate civil monetary
penalties. The SEC Complaint also seeks orders permanently prohibiting Gary  and
Steven  Singer from serving as  officers or directors of  any public company and
disgorgement  from  certain  Singer  family  members  and  entities  of  amounts
representing  the alleged  profits received by  such defendants  pursuant to the
alleged frauds.  In  February 1993,  the  court  granted a  motion  staying  all
proceedings  in connection with  this matter pending  completion of the criminal
case. On January 24, 1994, the Court lifted the stay and directed the defendants
to file answers to the  SEC Complaint within 30  days. The Company is  currently
involved  in settlement negotiations with the SEC. At this time, there can be no
assurances these negotiations will be successfully concluded.
 
     The imposition of monetary  penalties upon the Company  as a result of  the
criminal  convictions  or in  connection  with the  matters  alleged in  the SEC
Complaint, as well  as the  incurrence of  any additional  defense costs,  could
exacerbate,  possibly materially, the Company's  liquidity problems and its need
to raise funds. See Item 7 -- 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.'
 
     Copies of the Indictment and the SEC Complaint were attached as exhibits to
the Company's Current Report  on Form 8-K, dated  November 16, 1992, filed  with
the SEC.
 
     The  Company is  named as a  nominal defendant in  a shareholder derivative
action entitled  Harry Lewis  and Gary  Goldberg v.  Gary A.  Singer, Steven  G.
Singer,  Arthur C. Bass, Joseph C. Feghali, Warren J. Keegan, Robert S. Holcombe
and Robert S. Weiss, which was filed on  May 27, 1992 in the Court of  Chancery,
State of Delaware, New Castle County. On May 29, 1992, another plaintiff, Alfred
Schecter,  separately filed  a derivative  complaint in  Delaware Chancery Court
that was essentially identical  to the Lewis and  Goldberg complaint. Lewis  and
Goldberg  later  amended  their  complaint,  and  the  Delaware  Chancery  Court
thereafter consolidated the Lewis and Goldberg and Schecter actions as In re The
Cooper Companies, Inc. Litigation, Consolidated C.A. 12584, and designated Lewis
and Goldberg's amended complaint as the operative complaint (the 'First  Amended
Derivative  Complaint').  The First  Amended  Derivative Complaint  alleges that
certain directors of the Company and Gary A. Singer, as Co-Chairman of the Board
of Directors,  caused or  allowed the  Company to  be a  party to  the  'trading
scheme'  that was  the subject of  the Indictment. The  First Amended Derivative
Complaint also alleges that  the defendants violated  their fiduciary duties  to
the Company by not vigorously investigating the allegations of securities fraud.
The  First  Amended  Derivative  Complaint requests  that  the  Court  order the
defendants (other than the Company) to  pay damages and expenses to the  Company
and  certain of  the defendants  to disgorge  their profits  to the  Company. On
October 16, 1992, the defendants moved  to dismiss the First Amended  Derivative
Complaint  on grounds that such Complaint fails to comply with Delaware Chancery
Court Rule 23.1  and that Count  III of the  First Amended Derivative  Complaint
fails to state a claim. The Company has been advised by the individual directors
named  as defendants  that they believe  they have meritorious  defenses to this
lawsuit and intend  vigorously to defend  against the allegations  in the  First
Amended Derivative Complaint.
 
 

     The  Company was  named as a  nominal defendant in  a purported shareholder
derivative action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. Gary A. Singer, Steven G. Singer,
Brad C. Singer, Martin Singer,  John D. Collins II,  Back Bay Capital, Inc.,  G.
Albert  Griggs, Jr.,  John and  Jane Does 1-10  and The  Cooper Companies, Inc.,
which was filed on May 26, 1992 in  the Supreme Court of the State of New  York,
County  of  New York.  The plaintiff,  Bruce  D. Sturman,  a former  officer and
director of the  Company, alleged  that Gary A.  Singer, as  Co-Chairman of  the
Board  of Directors, and various members of the Singer family caused the Company
to make improper payments to alleged third-party co-conspirators, Messrs. Griggs
and Collins,  as part  of  the 'trading  scheme' that  was  the subject  of  the
Indictment.  The complaint requested that the  Court order the defendants (other
than the  Company)  to  pay  damages and  expenses  to  the  Company,  including
reimbursement of payments made by the Company to Messrs. Collins and Griggs, and
to  disgorge their profits to  the Company. Pursuant to  its decision and order,
filed August 17,  1993, the  Court dismissed this  action under  New York  Civil
Practice  Rule 327(a). On  September 22, 1993,  the plaintiff filed  a Notice of
Appeal.
 
     The Company was named in an action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and Does 1-100, Inclusive, first brought on July 24, 1992 in the
Superior  Court of  the State  of California,  Los Angeles,  County. Mr. Sturman
alleged that his  suspension from his  position as Co-Chairman  of the Board  of
Directors  constituted,  among  other  things,  an  anticipatory  breach  of his
employment agreement.  On  May 14,  1993,  Mr.  Sturman filed  a  First  Amended
Complaint  in the Superior Court of the  State of California, County of Alameda,
Eastern  Division,  the  jurisdiction  to  which  the  original  case  had  been
transferred.  In  the  Amended  Complaint, Mr.  Sturman  alleged  that  by first
suspending and  then  terminating him  from  his position  as  Co-Chairman,  the
Company breached his employment agreement, violated provisions of the California
Labor  Code, wrongfully terminated  him in violation  of public policy, breached
its implied covenant of  good faith and fair  dealing, defamed him, invaded  his
privacy  and  intentionally  inflicted  emotional  distress,  and  was otherwise
fraudulent, deceitful  and negligent.  The Amended  Complaint seeks  declaratory
relief,  damages in  the amount  of $5,000,  treble and  punitive damages  in an
unspecified amount, and general, special and consequential damages in the amount
of at least $5,000,000. In March 1993, the Court ordered a stay of all discovery
in this  action until  further order  of the  Court and  thereafter scheduled  a
conference  for January  14, 1994 to  review the  status of the  stay. The Court
subsequently modified the  stay to permit  the taking of  the deposition of  one
witness  who will not be  available to testify at  trial. On September 24, 1993,
Mr. Sturman filed a  Second Amended Complaint, setting  forth the same  material
allegations  and seeking the same  relief and damages as  set forth in the First
Amended Complaint. On January  7, 1994, the Company  filed an Answer,  generally
denying all of the allegations in the Second Amended Complaint, and also filed a
Cross-Complaint against Mr. Sturman. In the Cross-Complaint, the Company alleges
that Mr. Sturman's conduct constituted a breach of his employment agreement with
the  Company as well as a breach of  his fiduciary duty to the Company, that Mr.
Sturman misrepresented  and failed  to disclose  certain material  facts to  the
Company  and converted  certain assets  of the Company  to his  personal use and
benefit. The  Cross-Complaint  seeks compensatory  and  punitive damages  in  an
unspecified  amount. On January 14, 1994, the  Court continued in place the stay
on all discovery  and scheduled a  case management conference  for February  10,
1994  to review the status of the  stay. Based on management's current knowledge
of the  facts  and  circumstances surrounding  Mr.  Sturman's  termination,  the
Company believes that it has meritorious defenses to this lawsuit and intends to
defend vigorously against the allegations in the Second Amended Complaint.
 
     In  two  virtually identical  actions, Frank  H. Cobb,  Inc. v.  The Cooper
Companies, Inc., et al., and  Arthur J. Korf v.  The Cooper Companies, Inc.,  et
al.,  class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for
the Southern  District of  New York  in  August 1989,  against the  Company  and
certain individuals who served as officers and/or directors of the Company after
June  1987.  In their  Fourth  Amended Complaint  filed  in September  1992, the
plaintiffs allege that they are bringing the actions on their own behalf and  as
class  actions on behalf of  a class consisting of  all persons who purchased or
otherwise acquired shares of  the Company's common stock  during the period  May
26,  1988 through February 13, 1989. The amended complaints seek an undetermined
amount of compensatory damages jointly and severally against all defendants. The
complaints,  as  amended,  allege  that   the  defendants  knew  or   recklessly
disregarded  and failed  to disclose  to the  investing public  material adverse
information about the Company. Defendants are accused of having allegedly failed
to disclose,
 
 

or delayed in disclosing, among other things: (a) that the allegedly real reason
the Company announced on  May 26, 1988  that it was  dropping a proposed  merger
with  Cooper  Development Company,  Inc. was  because  the Company's  banks were
opposed to the merger; (b) that the  proposed sale of Cooper Technicon, Inc.,  a
former  subsidiary  of  the Company,  was  not  pursuant to  a  definitive sales
agreement but merely an  option; (c) that such  option required the approval  of
the Company's debentureholders and preferred stockholders; (d) that the approval
of  such sale by the Company's debentureholders and preferred stockholders would
not have been forthcoming absent extraordinary expenditures by the Company;  and
(e) that the purchase agreement between the Company and Miles, Inc. for the sale
of  Cooper  Technicon, Inc.  included substantial  penalties to  be paid  by the
Company if the sale was not consummated within certain time limits and that  the
sale  could not be consummated within  those time limits. The amended complaints
further allege that the defendants are liable for having violated Section  10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10(b)-5 thereunder and having engaged in
common  law  fraud. Based  on management's  current knowledge  of the  facts and
circumstances surrounding the  events alleged  by plaintiffs as  giving rise  to
their  claims, the  Company believes that  it has meritorious  defenses to these
lawsuits and intends vigorously to defend against the allegations in the amended
complaints. The  parties have  engaged in  preliminary settlement  negotiations;
however,  there can be no assurances that these discussions will be successfully
concluded.
 
     On September 2, 1993, a patent infringement complaint was filed against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada captioned
Steven P. Shearing v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. On or about that same day,  the
plaintiff  filed twelve additional complaints,  accusing at least fourteen other
defendants of infringing  the same patent.  The patent in  these suits covers  a
specific  method of implanting an intraocular  lens into the eye. Until February
1989, the Company  manufactured intraocular lenses  and ophthalmic  instruments,
but  did not engage in  the implantation of such  lenses. Subsequent to February
1989, the Company  was not  involved in the  manufacture, marketing  or sale  of
intraocular  lenses. The Company  denies the material  allegations of Shearing's
complaint and will vigorously defend itself.
 
     The Company  is a  defendant in  more than  2,600 breast  implant  lawsuits
pending in federal district courts and state courts, some of which purport to be
class  actions, relating to the mammary  prosthesis (breast implant) business of
its former wholly-owned subsidiaries, Aesthetech Corporation ('Aesthetech'), the
manufacturer, and  Natural  Y Surgical  Specialities,  Inc. ('Natural  Y'),  the
distributor,  of polyurethane foam covered, silicone gel-filled breast implants,
which subsidiaries  were  sold to  Medical  Engineering Corporation  ('MEC'),  a
wholly-owned  subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ('BMS') on December 14,
1988.
 
     The plaintiffs in the breast implant lawsuits generally claim to have  been
injured  by breast  implants allegedly  manufactured and/or  sold by Aesthetech,
Natural Y or MEC. The  ailments typically alleged include autoimmune  disorders,
scleroderma,   chronic   fatigue   syndrome   and   vascular   and  neurological
complications, as well as, in some cases,  a fear of cancer. A small  percentage
of  lawsuits allege that plaintiffs are  suffering from cancer, allegedly caused
by the  component parts  of the  implants, including  the alleged  breakdown  of
polyurethane  foam used to  cover the implants. In  most cases, other defendants
are named  in addition  to the  Company,  Aesthetech, Natural  Y, MEC  and  BMS,
including,  in many cases, implanting surgeons and the suppliers of the silicone
and polyurethane products used in the manufacture of the breast implants.
 
     On October 29,  1992, the  Delaware Chancery Court  in Medical  Engineering
Corporation and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. ruled
that,  as between BMS and MEC,  on the one hand, and  the Company, on the other,
the Company is responsible for product liability claims and obligations relating
to breast implants sold by Natural  Y before December 14, 1988, irrespective  of
when  the claims are brought. On September 28, 1993, the Company entered into an
agreement with MEC (the  'MEC Agreement') settling  this litigation between  the
Company  and BMS and MEC. Pursuant to the MEC Agreement, MEC has agreed, subject
to limited  exceptions, to  take responsibility  for all  legal fees  and  other
costs,  and to pay all judgments and settlements, resulting from all pending and
future claims in  respect of breast  implants sold by  Aesthetech and Natural  Y
prior  to their acquisition by MEC (including the above-mentioned lawsuits), and
the Company has withdrawn its appeal of the Delaware Chancery Court decision and
agreed, among other  things, to make  certain payments to  MEC. Pursuant to  the
terms    of    the   MEC    Agreement,   MEC    could   have    terminated   the
 
 

agreement if the exchange  offer and consent  solicitation (the 'Exchange  Offer
and  Solicitation') relating to its  Debentures (or an alternative restructuring
of the Debentures or other amendment, forebearance or waiver with respect to the
Debentures) was not completed on terms  satisfactory to the Company by  February
1,  1994. The Exchange Offer and Solicitation  was completed on January 6, 1994.
See Item 7 -- 'Management's Discussion  and Analysis of Financial Condition  and
Results of Operations, Capital Resources and Liquidity' and Notes 14 and 19.
 
     The  Company  was named  as a  defendant  in a  civil action  entitled Site
Microsurgical Systems v. The Cooper Companies,  Inc. filed in the United  States
District  Court of Delaware on November 13, 1990. The plaintiff alleged that the
Company infringed one  of its  U.S. patents  through sales  by the  CooperVision
Surgical  Division  ('CVS')  of  certain cassettes  and  systems  utilizing such
cassettes prior to the  sale of CVS  in February, 1989.  The Company denied  the
plaintiff's  allegations  and  counterclaimed  for  a  Declaratory  Judgment  of
non-infringement and invalidity of the plaintiff's patent-in-suit. This  lawsuit
was settled in October 1993. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company made a cash
payment  to  the  plaintiff  and the  parties  terminated  a  generic ophthalmic
pharmaceutical supply agreement.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     The 1993 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on September 14, 1993.
 
     Eight individuals  were nominated  to serve  as directors  of the  Company.
Information with respect to votes cast for or against such nominees is set forth
below:
 

 
     On  June 14,  1993, the  Company acquired  from Cooper  Life Sciences, Inc.
('CLS') 160,600 shares of its  Senior Exchangeable Redeemable Restricted  Voting
Preferred  Stock ('SERPS'), constituting  all of the  Company's then outstanding
SERPS, together with all  rights to any dividends  thereon, in exchange for  345
shares  of a newly created series of  preferred stock of the Company, designated
Series B Preferred Stock (the 'Series B Preferred Stock'), having a par value of
$.10  per  share  and  a  liquidation  preference  of  $10,000  per  share.  The
stockholders  of the  Company were  asked to  approve conversion  rights on such
Series B  Preferred Stock,  whereby such  shares would  be convertible,  at  the
option  of CLS,  into an aggregate  of 3,450,000  shares of common  stock of the
Company (subject to customary antidilution adjustments). The proposal to approve
conversion rights of  the Series B  Preferred Stock  was approved by  a vote  of
17,741,096 shares in favor, with 600,364 shares voted against and 409,155 shares
abstaining.  9,315,119  shares  present  at  the  meeting  for  the  purpose  of
establishing a quorum  were ineligible to  vote on the  proposal. The shares  of
Series B Preferred Stock, if any, issued in payment of dividends on the Series B
Preferred  Stock will  be convertible  into one share  of common  stock for each
$1.00 of liquidation  preference of such  Series B Preferred  Stock (subject  to
customary  antidilution adjustments). The  Company also has  the right to compel
conversion of Series B Preferred Stock at any time after (i) the average of  the
closing  sale prices for the common stock on its principal trading market on the
trading days  during any  period of  90 consecutive  calendar days  is at  least
$1.375  and (ii)  on at least  80% of the  trading days during  such period, the
closing sale price is at least $1.375.
 
     Stockholders were also asked to ratify the appointment of KPMG Peat Marwick
as independent certified public accountants for the Company for the fiscal  year
which  ended October 31, 1993. A total  of 27,694,165 shares were voted in favor
of the ratification,  291,596 shares  were voted  against it  and 79,973  shares
abstained.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The  Company's common stock is traded on  The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
and the Pacific Stock  Exchange Incorporated. No cash  dividends were paid  with
respect to the common stock in fiscal 1993 or 1992.
 
     The   Certificate  of   Designations,  Preferences   and  Relative  Rights,
Qualifications, Limitations and Restrictions of the Company's SERPS, which  were
retired  in  exchange for  the Series  B Preferred  Stock on  June 14,  1993, as
indicated in  Item 4  above, prohibited  the payment  of cash  dividends on  the
Company's  common stock  unless certain  conditions, which  the Company  did not
meet, were met.
 
     The  Certificate  of   Designations,  Preferences   and  Relative   Rights,
Qualifications,  Limitations and  Restrictions of  the Series  B Preferred Stock
prohibits the payment of cash dividends on the Company's common stock unless the
full amount of cumulative  dividends on the Series  B Preferred Stock have  been
declared  and paid in full or contemporaneously are paid through the most recent
dividend payment date. Dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock do not begin to
accrue until June 14, 1994.
 
     The  Indenture,  dated  as  of  March  1,  1985,  governing  the  Company's
Debentures,  as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29,
1989 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 6, 1994, and  the
Indenture  dated  as  of January  6,  1994  governing the  Company's  10% Senior
Subordinated Secured Notes due 2003 (collectively, the 'Indentures'), permit the
payment of  cash dividends  on the  Series B  Preferred Stock  but prohibit  the
payment  of cash dividends on the Company's  common stock unless (i) no defaults
exist or would exist under the Indentures, (ii) the Company's Cash Flow Coverage
Ratio (as  defined in  the Indentures)  for the  most recently  ended four  full
fiscal  quarters  has been  at least  1.5 to  1, and  (iii) such  cash dividend,
together with the aggregate of all other Restricted Payments (as defined in  the
Indentures),  is less than the sum of 50% of the Company's cumulative net income
plus the proceeds of certain sales of the Company's or its subsidiaries' capital
stock subsequent to February  1, 1994. The Company  does not anticipate, in  the
foreseeable  future, being  able to satisfy  the foregoing  test and, therefore,
does not anticipate being able to pay cash dividends on its common stock in  the
foreseeable future.
 
     The  ability of the Company to declare and pay dividends is also subject to
restrictions set forth in  the Delaware General  Corporation Law (the  'Delaware
GCL').  As a general  rule, a Delaware  corporation may pay  dividends under the
Delaware GCL either out of  its 'surplus,' as defined  in the Delaware GCL,  or,
subject  to certain exceptions,  out of its  net profits for  the fiscal year in
which the dividend  is declared and/or  the preceding fiscal  year. Even if  the
Company  were to satisfy the  requirements in the Indentures  for the payment of
cash dividends on the Company's common stock, the Company's ability to pay  cash
dividends will depend upon whether the Company satisfies the requirements of the
Delaware GCL at the time any such proposed dividend is declared.
 
     CLS  filed Amendment No. 2 to its Schedule 13D stating that it owns and has
sole voting  and dispositive  power  with respect  to  4,850,000 shares  of  the
Company's  common stock as of June 12, 1992.  On June 14, 1993, CLS acquired 345
shares of Series B Preferred Stock  which are convertible into 3,450,000  shares
of  common stock. In addition, the Company had been advised that, as of December
15, 1993,  Moses  Marx,  the  beneficial  owner  of  approximately  22%  of  the
outstanding  stock of CLS, beneficially owned 1,126,000 shares (or approximately
3.7%)  of  the  Company's  common  stock  and  $4,500,000  principal  amount  of
Debentures,  or approximately 11.4%  of the aggregate  principal amount thereof,
and that United Equities Company ('United Equities'), a brokerage firm owned  by
Mr.  Marx,  held  approximately  $3,706,000 principal  amount  of  Debentures or
approximately 9.4% of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures  outstanding,
in  its trading  account. Mr.  Marx and  United Equities  tendered all  of their
Debentures in the  Exchange Offer and  Solicitation (although not  all of  their
Debentures  were accepted, due  to proration), and  the Company is  not aware of
either Mr.  Marx's  or  United  Equities'  current  holdings  of  the  Company's
securities.  Although the Company takes  no position as to  whether Mr. Marx and
United Equities are 'affiliates' of the Company, the Company has not treated Mr.
Marx or United Equities as affiliates for purposes of the Company's Form 10-K.
 
     Other information called for by this Item is set forth in Note 17.
 
 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 

 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
     References  to Note numbers herein are references to 'Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements' of the Company located in Item 8 herein.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES & LIQUIDITY
 
Negative Trends and Recent Developments
 
     The Company has experienced  substantial losses from continuing  operations
in  each of the fiscal years ended  October 31, 1989 through 1993. The aggregate
loss from continuing operations before  extraordinary items over that five  year
period  was $92,303,000. The aggregate net  loss applicable to common stock over
that same period was $141,510,000. Cash  items and temporary investments of  the
Company  were $172,753,000  at October 31,  1990 and $16,857,000  at October 31,
1993. The losses experienced by the  Company resulted in the Company's  Adjusted
Net Worth, as defined in the indenture (the 'Indenture') governing the Company's
10  5/8% Convertible Subordinated  Reset Debentures due  2005 (the 'Debentures')
declining to $24,580,000  at April 30,  1993, $10,965,000 at  July 31, 1993  and
$452,000  at October 31, 1993.  The Company experienced a  material loss and had
significant reductions in  cash items,  temporary investments  and Adjusted  Net
Worth  (as defined in the Indenture) during  fiscal year 1993. As of October 31,
1993, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $10,113,000, restricted  cash
of  $306,000,  and temporary  investments of  $6,438,000. (Cash  equivalents are
comprised  of  short-term   income  producing  securities   which  are   readily
convertible  into  cash.  Temporary  investments  at  October  31,  1993 include
approximately $2,000,000, based on market, of  high yield, unrated or less  than
investment grade corporate debt securities.) The decrease of $27,965,000 in cash
and cash equivalents since October 31, 1992, was due primarily to the payment of
legal  fees and  liabilities resulting from  settlement of  disputes and product
liability cases, including breast implant litigation  (see Notes 7, 18 and  19),
the  acquisition of CoastVision (see Note  2) and payments for current operating
expenses.
 
     As a  result of  the above-described  decline in  Adjusted Net  Worth,  the
Company  was required under a covenant  contained in the Indenture to repurchase
Debentures. (See Note  11, under  'Long-Term Debt,'  for a  description of  such
required  repurchases.) The Company did not  have the cash available to purchase
Debentures as  required  by  such  covenant and  was  not  complying  with  such
requirement.
 
     On  September  28,  1993,  the  Company  reached  an  agreement  (the  'MEC
Agreement')  with  Medical  Engineering  Corporation  ('MEC')  and  its  parent,
Bristol-Myers  Squibb Company ('BMS'), which limited the Company's liability for
breast implant litigation. Pursuant to the MEC Agreement, MEC agreed, subject to
limited exceptions, to take responsibility  for substantially all of the  breast
implant  liability, and  the Company  agreed to pay  MEC an  aggregate amount of
between $12,000,000 and  $30,000,000 over  ten years,  the actual  amount to  be
determined  by the Company's net  income before taxes in  each of the years 1999
through 2003. In October 1993 the Company made an initial payment of  $3,000,000
to  MEC. See Note 14 for a discussion of  the schedule of payments to be made to
MEC and Note 18 for a description  of the breast implant litigation and the  MEC
Agreement.  The MEC Agreement provided that MEC could terminate the agreement if
the Company's exchange offer and  consent solicitation (the 'Exchange Offer  and
Solicitation')  relating to its  Debentures (or an  alternative restructuring of
the Debentures or other  amendment, forbearance, or waiver  with respect to  the
Debentures)  was not completed on terms that were satisfactory to the Company by
February 1, 1994.
 
     On  January  6,  1994,  the  Company  completed  the  Exchange  Offer   and
Solicitation, the terms of which are described in Note 19, pursuant to which the
Company  issued  approximately  $22,000,000 aggregate  principal  amount  of 10%
Senior Subordinated Secured Notes due 2003 (the 'Notes') and paid  approximately
$4,350,000 in cash in exchange for approximately $30,000,000 aggregate principal
amount of Debentures.
 
     In connection with the Exchange Offer and Solicitation, the Company amended
the  Indenture to, among  other things, eliminate  the covenant discussed above,
with which  the  Company  was  not  in  compliance,  requiring  the  Company  to
repurchase  Debentures. The Company also obtained a waiver (the 'Waiver') of any
and all  Defaults and  Events  of Default  (as such  terms  are defined  in  the
 
 

Indenture)  that occurred or  may have occurred  prior to the  expiration of the
Exchange Offer and Solicitation at 5:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, on  January
6,  1994 (the  'Expiration Date'),  to ensure that  the Debentures  could not be
accelerated based upon any actions, omissions or events (including the costs  of
Company's  failure to comply with the above-described covenant and matters which
are the subject of the Indictment of  which the Company and/or Gary Singer  were
convicted  and/or  the SEC  Complaint described  in Note  18), whether  known or
unknown, that occurred or that may have  occurred on or prior to the  Expiration
Date  and that could have been construed to be Defaults or Events of Default (as
defined in the Indenture).
 
     As a result of the consummation of the Exchange Offer and Solicitation, the
Company has increased its operating and financial flexibility by rendering  less
onerous  or eliminating various restrictions  and obligations previously imposed
by the  Indenture. The  Exchange Offer  and Solicitation  further benefited  the
Company  by  reducing the  Company's total  indebtedness  and by  decreasing the
Company's future interest expense. However, the  amendments to the terms of  the
Debentures  also  reduced  the conversion  price  at which  holders  may convert
Debentures into shares of the Company's common stock from $27.45 to $5.00 (which
amount is still substantially  in excess of the  current price of the  Company's
common stock).
 
     The  Company currently anticipates that, at least during fiscal 1994, it is
likely to experience net cash outflows primarily as a result of continued  legal
and  other costs  associated with  pending litigation,  research and development
costs of CVP  and certain penalties  that may  be imposed upon  the Company,  as
discussed  below. Depending upon a  variety of factors, the  Company may need to
raise funds  through borrowings  or  other financings  or  sales of  assets.  As
described in Note 18, the Company has been convicted of six counts of mail fraud
and  one count of wire  fraud based upon the  conduct of its former co-Chairman,
Gary Singer. The maximum penalty  which could be imposed  on the Company is  the
greatest  of $500,000 per count, twice the gross gain derived from each count or
twice the gross loss suffered by the victim of each count and, in addition,  the
court  could impose a fine equal to restitution. The Company is also the subject
of the SEC complaint alleging violations  of the federal securities laws by  the
Company,  Gary Singer and Steven Singer  (the Company's Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer and Gary Singer's brother), as described in Note 18.
The imposition of any  monetary penalties upon  the Company as  a result of  the
criminal  convictions  or in  connection  with the  matters  alleged in  the SEC
Complaint, as  well  as  additional defense  costs  could  exacerbate,  possibly
materially,  the Company's liquidity problems and its need to raise funds. Given
the Company's current financial  condition, there can be  no assurance that  the
Company  will be  successful in  raising the  funds which  may be  required. The
Independent Auditors' report on the Company's consolidated financial  statements
located in Item 8 herein contains the following statement:
 
          'The  accompanying  financial statements  have been  prepared assuming
     that the Company will  continue as a going  concern. During the past  three
     fiscal years, the Company has suffered significant losses and negative cash
     flows. In addition, as discussed in Note 18 to the financial statements the
     Company  is  exposed  to  contingent  liabilities  related  to  a  criminal
     conviction and a  Securities and Exchange  Commission action. Such  losses,
     negative  cash flows,  and contingent  liabilities raise  substantial doubt
     about  the  Company's  ability  to   continue  as  a  going  concern.   The
     consolidated  financial statements and financial statement schedules do not
     include any  adjustments  that  might  result from  the  outcome  of  these
     uncertainties.'
 
In light of the foregoing, even with the successful consummation of the Exchange
Offer and Solicitation, and the limitation of the Company's liability for breast
implant  litigation by reason  of the MEC  Agreement, there can  be no assurance
that the Company  will not face  severe liquidity problems  or that the  Company
could not be forced in the future to seek protection under the Bankruptcy Code.
 
Clinton Administration Health Care Reforms
 
     On  October  27,  1993, President  Clinton  delivered  his Administration's
proposal for  national health  care reform  to Congress.  This complex  proposal
contains  provisions designed to control and reduce growth in public and private
spending on health care, to reform the payment methodology for health care goods
and services by  both the public  (Medicare and Medicaid)  and private  sectors,
including  overall  limitations on  future growth  in  spending for  health care
benefits and the provision of universal
 
 

access to  health care.  Currently, there  are pending  before Congress  several
competing  health care  reform proposals  which, through  varying mechanisms and
methodologies, are  also  intended  to  control or  reduce  public  and  private
spending  on health care. It is uncertain which, if any, of these proposals will
be adopted by  Congress or  what actions federal,  state or  private payors  for
health  care goods and services may take in response thereto. The Company cannot
yet predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may  have
on  the business of the Company  and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, no assurance
can be  given that  the same  will not  have a  material adverse  effect on  the
Company's revenues, earnings or cash flows.
 
Other
 
     As  of October  31, 1993,  the Company  had a  receivable of  $500,000 plus
accrued interest for escrow funds, all of which was collected by the Company  in
December  1993.  In  addition,  during fiscal  1993,  the  Company  collected an
aggregate amount of $8,300,000, including interest of $418,000, on escrow funds.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Comparison of Each of the Years in the Three Year Period Ended October  31,
1993:
 
Net Service Revenue
 
     On  May  29, 1992  the  Company acquired  Hospital  Group of  America, Inc.
('HGA'). HGA provides  psychiatric and substance  abuse treatment through  three
facilities  that contain an  aggregate of 269 licensed  beds. The acquisition of
HGA was  accounted  for  as  a  purchase.  Accordingly,  the  results  of  HGA's
operations have been included in the Company's consolidated results from May 29,
1992.  Also  on  May  29,  1992,  PSG  Management,  Inc.  ('PSG  Management'), a
subsidiary of  the  Company, entered  into  a management  agreement  with  three
indirect  subsidiaries of Nu-Med, Inc. ('Nu-Med'), under which PSG Management is
managing three  additional hospitals  owned by  such subsidiaries  which have  a
total of 220 licensed beds. Under the management agreement, PSG Management is to
receive  a management  fee of $6,000,000  payable in  equal monthly installments
over the three-year term of the  agreement. The management agreement is  jointly
and  severally guaranteed by Nu-Med  and its wholly-owned subsidiary PsychGroup,
Inc.  the  parent  of  the  contracting  subsidiaries  which  own  the   managed
facilities.  On January 6, 1993,  Nu-Med (but not any  of its direct or indirect
subsidiaries) filed a voluntary petition under  Chapter 11 of the United  States
Bankruptcy  Code. Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates filed a proof of
claim in the Nu-Med Chapter 11 proceeding, and the bar date (the time for filing
proofs of claims) has past. However, none of the Nu-Med subsidiaries have  filed
under  Chapter 11, and the Nu-Med subsidiaries have paid the management fee on a
timely basis,  although  representatives of  Nu-Med  and its  subsidiaries  have
alleged  in writing  that PSG  Management has  breached the  management services
agreement (which  contention  PSG  Management  vigorously  disputes).  Moreover,
Nu-Med's  Proposed Disclosure Statement to accompany  its Second Amended Plan of
Reorganization, filed with the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the  Central
District  of California, indicates that  PsychGroup is commencing performance of
certain administrative  functions  performed by  PSG  Management on  a  parallel
basis.
 
     HGA  derives  virtually  all  of its  revenue  from  patients  referred for
treatment  on  either  an  inpatient  or  outpatient  basis  for  a  variety  of
psychological  and behavioral disorders.  Virtually all patients  are covered by
insurance or by other  third party reimbursement programs  such as Medicare  and
Medicaid, which make payment to HGA.
 
     Revenue  is affected by  changes in the  daily rates that  HGA receives for
providing its services  and by the  number of  patient days in  a given  period.
Patient  days  are  a  function  of  admissions  and  average  length  of  stay.
Consequently, pressures on revenues caused by the current industry trend towards
increased managed care, with attendant decreases in daily rates and declines  in
the average length of stay must be offset by increasing the number of admissions
in hospitals and by providing outpatient and other ancillary services outside of
hospitals.
 
 

     Net service revenue consists of the following:
 

 
     Net patient revenue by major providers was as follows:
 

 
- ------------
 
*  From May 29, 1992
 
     In  recent years, forms of  prospective reimbursement legislation have been
proposed in various states  but have not been  enacted into law. If  legislation
based  on the budgeted costs  of individual hospitals were  to be enacted in the
future in  one  or  more  of  the  states  in  which  HGA  operates  psychiatric
facilities,  it could have an adverse effect  on HGA's business and earnings. In
addition, the enactment  of such legislation  in states where  HGA does not  now
operate  could have a deterrent  effect on the decision  to acquire or establish
facilities in such states.
 
Net Sales of Products
 
     The following table summarizes the increases and decreases in net sales  of
products  for the Company's  CVI and CooperSurgical  ('CSI') business units over
the  three  year   period.  Sales  generated   by  the  Company's   CooperVision
Pharmaceuticals  unit  ('CVP'),  a start  up  business, were  $570,000  in 1993,
$46,000 in 1992 and $12,000 in 1991.
 

 
1993 VS. 1992
 
     Net sales of CVI increased primarily  due to the April 1, 1993  acquisition
of  CoastVision, Inc.  ('CoastVision'), a  manufacturer of  custom toric contact
lenses for use  by patients  with astigmatic vision.  In 1993,  CVI's sales  mix
continued to shift towards daily wear and frequent replacement products, as well
as specialty products, and away from extended wear products. The Company expects
this  trend to continue  and considers itself  to be well  positioned to compete
successfully in specialty niches of  the contact lens market, particularly  with
its  Preference'tm' line of  frequent replacement lenses and  its line of custom
toric lenses.
 
     Net sales of  CSI declined primarily  due to slower  sales of its  surgical
systems  launched in 1992 for use in the Loop Electrosurgical Excision Procedure
('LEEP'), which  is used  diagnostically  and operatively  in the  treatment  of
cervical  cancer and other indications in gynecology. This decline was partially
offset by increased  sales of  the Company's  LEEP disposable  products and  the
launch  of a line  of instruments for  various laparoscopic (minimally invasive)
procedures. The acceptance of minimally invasive procedures and the expansion of
the minimally invasive  surgical market has  provided continued customer  demand
for  CSI's  products.  Such  products  are  subject  to  substantial  government
regulation and to competition from a large number of competitors.
 
 

1992 VS. 1991
 
     Net sales of CVI were relatively  flat reflecting the successful launch  of
the  Preference'r' product line in the  fourth quarter of 1991, continued growth
in the Vantage'r' product line and a significant decline in sales returns during
1992. The positive impact of the  foregoing was offset by lower average  selling
prices  resulting  from the  Company's shift  from  direct sales  to the  use of
distributors and erosion of the extended wear contact lens market in the  United
States.  Net sales of CooperSurgical increased due  to the expansion of the LEEP
product line and the inclusion of a full year's results in 1992 vs. nine  months
in 1991 for the Euro-Med business.
 
     The percentage increases in consolidated net sales of products in 1993 (vs.
1992) and 1992 (vs. 1991) were 8% and 24%, respectively.
 
Cost of Services Provided
 
     Cost of services provided represents all of the operating costs incurred by
HGA  in  generating its  net  patient revenue  and  management fee  revenue. The
results of subtracting cost of services provided from net service revenue is  an
operating  profit  of  $2,529,000  or  5.6%  net  service  revenue  in  1993 and
$2,053,000 or 10.6% of net service revenue in 1992. The decreased percentage  of
operating  profit is primarily  attributable to a lower  than expected number of
patient days at the hospitals operated by HGA, exacerbated by a deterioration of
payor mix. Also  in 1993,  HGA incurred non-recurring  charges of  approximately
$360,000  associated  with severance  and approximately  $400,000 to  write down
certain governmental receivables.
 
Cost of Products Sold
 
     Gross profit  (net sales  of products  less  cost of  products sold)  as  a
percentage of net sales of products ('margin') was as follows:
 

 
1993 VS. 1992
 
     Margin  for CVI  has increased  due to  the realization  of efficiencies in
manufacturing as well as the impact  of cost reduction measures associated  with
downsizing.  Also,  the  inclusion  of higher  margin  CoastVision  products has
resulted in  a  favorable product  mix.  The  margin decrease  at  CSI  reflects
increased  sales of endoscopic products used in laparoscopic surgical procedures
and sales to international distributors,  each of which generates lower  margins
than  CSI's  other  products.  CSI  also  incurred  an  inventory  write-down of
approximately $450,000 in 1993.
 
1992 VS. 1991
 
     CVI's margin  increased due  to  the realization  of efficiencies  and  the
impact  of cost  reduction measures  associated with  CooperVision's downsizing,
improved product  mix  and  the  absence  of  inventory  write-downs  at  levels
approaching those made in 1991, partially offset by lower average selling prices
due  to  CooperVision's shift  towards  distributors. Margin  for CooperSurgical
increased reflecting product mix, primarily the inclusion of higher margin  LEEP
products.
 
Research and Development Expense
 
     Research  and  development expense  was $3,209,000  or 7%  of net  sales of
products in 1993 compared to  $3,267,000 or 7% in 1992  and $2,268,000 or 6%  in
1991.
 
     The  decrease in 1993  is attributable to certain  declines in research and
development project expenses in the CVI and CSI business units, net of increased
development activity primarily related to clinical and regulatory costs at  CVP.
CVP    accounted   for   51%,    40%   and   32%    of   consolidated   research
 
 

and development  expense  in 1993,  1992  and 1991,  respectively.  The  Company
anticipates  that in  the next  two years it  will concentrate  its research and
development expenditures  on  certain  clinical and  regulatory  projects  being
administered by CVP.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
 
     The  Company's  selling,  general  and  administrative  expense  ('SGA') by
business unit and corporate was as follows:
 

 
     The increases in  Corporate/Other SGA reflect  increases in legal  expenses
associated  with  litigation, which  have outweighed  reductions that  have been
effected in other areas:
 

 
     A significant portion  of the  legal expenses summarized  above related  to
costs associated with breast implant liabilities, which were limited pursuant to
the  MEC  Agreement reached  on September  28,  1993 (see  Note 18  and 'Capital
Resources and  Liquidity'). Accordingly,  the  Company currently  anticipates  a
significant reduction in legal expenses going forward.
 
     SGA for CVI increased by 9% in 1993 vs. 1992 due to the inclusion of SGA of
CoastVision, which the Company acquired on April 1, 1993. As a percent of sales,
however,  CVI's SGA decreased in  1993 to 42% from  44% in 1992, reflecting cost
synergies effected as a result of merging CoastVisions' operations into CVI.
 
     The increases  at CSI  reflect  expanding CSI  business, both  by  internal
growth  and acquisition,  much of which  reflected the  Company's expansion into
various laparoscopic procedures.
 
Settlement of Disputes
 
     The charge  of  $6,350,000 in  1993  is  comprised of  $4,850,000  paid  in
connection  with  the settlement  reached between  the  Company and  Cooper Life
Sciences, Inc.  ('CLS')  described  below,  and  $1,500,000  for  certain  other
disputes.
 
     The  Company and  CLS entered into  a settlement agreement,  dated June 14,
1993, pursuant to which  CLS delivered a general  release of claims against  the
Company,  subject to exceptions for  specified on-going contractual obligations,
and agreed to certain  restrictions on its acquisition,  voting and transfer  of
securities  of the Company, in exchange  for the Company's payment of $4,000,000
in cash and  delivery of  200,000 shares  of common stock  of CLS  owned by  the
Company  and  a  general  release  of claims  against  CLS,  subject  to similar
exceptions (see Note 15). The cash paid and fair value of CLS shares returned to
CLS were  charged to  the Company's  Statement of  Operations as  settlement  of
disputes.
 
     In  1992 the Company recorded a charge for settlement of disputes comprised
of: 1) a $650,000 charge related to a transaction with CLS, 2) a payment to  Mr.
Frederick  R. Adler,  a former  director of  the Company  and 3)  provisions for
several ongoing litigations and disputes,  including the settlement of  Guenther
v. Cooper Life Sciences, Inc., et. al. (see Note 7).
 
Debt Restructuring Costs
 
     The  $2,131,000 charge for debt  restructuring costs reflects the Company's
estimate  of  transaction   costs  associated  with   the  Exchange  Offer   and
Solicitation. These costs include amounts paid or to be
 
 

paid  to the Company's  attorneys, accountants and  financial advisor, printer's
fees, fees of  the financial  advisor to the  informal committee  of holders  of
Debentures and its attorneys, and fees of the Information Agent and the Exchange
Agent.
 
Costs Associated With Restructuring Operations
 
     In   the  second  quarter  of  1993,   the  Company  recorded  $451,000  of
restructuring  costs   for  consolidation   of   CSI  facilities   and   related
reorganization and relocation costs.
 
Amortization of Intangibles
 
     Amortization  of intangibles  was $772,000  in 1993,  $742,000 in  1992 and
$946,000 in 1991. The changes in each year reflect acquisitions and divestitures
during the three year period (see Note 2).
 
Investment Income, Net
 
     Investment income,  net includes  interest income  of $2,439,000  in  1993,
$6,960,000  in 1992 and $12,057,000 in 1991. The decrease in interest income for
each year reflects the Company's use of cash for the acquisition of  CoastVision
on  April 1, 1993 and HGA on May 29, 1992 (see Note 2), to purchase a portion of
its Debentures, operating  cash use,  declining interest rates  during 1992  and
1993  and a shift  in investment strategy  towards more conservative instruments
with lower risk and correspondingly  lower returns. Also included in  investment
income,  net  are  net  realized and  unrealized  gains  (losses)  in marketable
securities and  investments  of  ($824,000)  in 1993,  $7,294,000  in  1992  and
$211,000 in 1991. See Note 1 under 'Temporary Investments.'
 
Gain on Sale of Assets and Businesses, Net
 
     On  February 12, 1993,  the Company sold its  EYEscrub'tm' product line for
$1,400,000 which sale resulted in a $620,000 gain. In 1992, the Company assigned
its license  to  manufacture, have  manufactured,  sell, distribute  and  market
certain  intraocular lens products and disposed  of certain other related rights
and assets. Total cash consideration received by the Company for such assignment
was approximately $5,200,000 which resulted in a gain of $1,030,000.
 
Other Income (Expense), Net
 
     Other income (expense),  net was  $174,000 in  1993, $772,000  in 1992  and
$574,000  in  1991.  Other  income  in  1993  primarily  includes  consent fees,
extension fees and collection fees related to the Company's temporary investment
activity and rental income from the Company's real estate ventures, all of which
were partially offset  by a foreign  exchange loss  realized on the  sale of  an
investment  denominated in other than U.S.  dollars. Other income (expense), net
in 1992 primarily reflects the receipt by the Company of $1,500,000 for business
interruption insurance related to a fire at a CVI facility in 1991, offset by  a
foreign  exchange  loss  resulting  from  an  unhedged  liability.  Other income
(expense), net  in  1991  includes  deferred  income  related  to  a  standstill
agreement which expired in September 1991.
 
Interest Expense
 
     Interest  expense was $6,129,000 in 1993, $6,697,000 in 1992 and $7,148,000
in 1991. These  declines are  primarily due to  the Company's  purchases of  its
Debentures  (see  Note  4).  Partially  offsetting  the  reduction  of Debenture
interest expense was additional interest expense related to the assumed debt  of
HGA (see Note 2).
 
Provision for Income Taxes
 
     Details with regard to the Company's provision for income taxes for each of
the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 1993 are set out in Note 9.
The  1993 provision  of $417,000  relates entirely  to current  state income and
franchise taxes. The 1992 provision of $100,000 relates to current state  income
and  franchise  taxes,  a  federal assessment  and  an  offsetting  reduction of
liabilities for  estimated income  taxes  relating to  international  operations
which  were no longer  necessary. The 1991  provision represents state franchise
taxes.
 
 

Loss on Sale of Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes
 
     A charge of  $14,000,000 in 1993  represents an increase  to the  Company's
accrual  for contingent  liabilities associated  with breast  implant litigation
involving the  plastic and  reconstructive surgical  division of  the  Company's
former  Cooper Surgical business  segment ('Surgical') which  was sold in fiscal
1989 (the 'Breast Implant  Accrual'). See Notes  3 and 18.  In 1993 the  Company
also  recorded a reversal of $343,000 of accruals no longer necessary related to
another discontinued business.
 
     In 1992  the  Company  recorded  a charge  of  $9,300,000  to  discontinued
operations.  A  charge of  $7,000,000 represents  an  increase to  the Company's
Breast Implant  Accrual.  The  balance  of  the  charge  reflects  a  $2,000,000
settlement  of  a  dispute  involving  the  Company's  former  Surgical business
segment, and a  $300,000 adjustment to  the loss  on the sale  of the  Company's
former Cooper Technicon business segment.
 
     No  tax benefit has been applied against  the above figures, as the Company
was not profitable in either year.
 
Extraordinary Items
 
     Extraordinary  items  represent  extraordinary   gains  on  the   Company's
purchases of its Old Debentures as set forth below:
 

 
INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
 
     Inflation  has had  little effect on  the Company's operations  in the last
three years.
 
IMPACT OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT ADOPTED
 
     In December 1992,  the Financial  Accounting Standards  Board (the  'FASB')
issued   Statement  of  Financial  Accounting   Standards  (a  'FAS')  No.  112,
'Employers'  Accounting  for  Postemployment  Benefits'  ('FAS  112').  FAS  112
establishes accounting standards for employers who provide benefits to former or
inactive  employees  after  employment  but  before  retirement ('postemployment
benefits'). Postemployment benefits are all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive  employees,  their  beneficiaries,  and  covered  dependents.  Those
benefits  include,  but are  not limited  to, salary  continuation, supplemental
unemployment   benefits,   severance   benefits,   disability-related   benefits
(including workers' compensation), job training and counseling, and continuation
of benefits such as health care benefits and life insurance coverage.
 
     FAS  112 is effective  for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 1993.
Earlier application is encouraged. Previously issued financial statements  shall
not  be restated. The Company  intends to adopt FAS  112 when required, and does
not believe that such adoption will  have a material impact on its  consolidated
financial statements.
 
     In  May 1993, the FASB issued  FAS 115, 'Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities.' FAS  115 addresses the accounting and  reporting
for  investments in equity securities that  have readily determinable fair value
and for all  investments in  debt securities. FAS  115 is  effective for  fiscal
years  beginning  after  December 15,  1993.  Initial  adoption must  be  at the
beginning of  the fiscal  year, and  retroactive adoption  is not  allowed.  The
Company  intends to adopt FAS 115 when  required, and does not believe that such
adoption will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
 
     See Note  13  for a  discussion  of  FAS 106,  'Employer's  Accounting  for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,' and Note 9 for a discussion of FAS
109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes.'
 

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.:
 
     We  have audited the accompanying consolidated  balance sheet of The Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1993 and 1992 and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'  equity and the cash  flows
for  each  of the  years in  the three-year  period ended  October 31,  1993. In
connection with our  audits of  the consolidated financial  statements, we  also
have  audited  financial  statement schedules  II,  V,  VI, VIII,  and  X. These
consolidated financial  statements and  financial  statement schedules  are  the
responsibility  of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on  these  consolidated  financial statements  and  financial  statement
schedules based on our audits.
 
     We  conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In  our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries at October 31, 1993 and 1992 and the results of
their  operations and their cash  flows for each of  the years in the three-year
period ended October 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted  accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole,  present  fairly, in  all material  respects,  the information  set forth
therein.
 
     The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that  the
Company  will continue as a  going concern. During the  past three fiscal years,
the Company  has  suffered  significant  losses  and  negative  cash  flows.  In
addition,  as discussed in  Note 18 to  the financial statements  the Company is
exposed to  contingent  liabilities  related  to a  criminal  conviction  and  a
Securities and Exchange Commission action. Such losses, negative cash flows, and
contingent  liabilities raise substantial  doubt about the  Company's ability to
continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedules do not  include any adjustments that  might result from  the
outcome of these uncertainties.
 
                                                KPMG PEAT MARWICK
 
 
San Francisco, California
January 24, 1994
 
 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     During  the  three  years  ended October  31,  1993,  the  Company acquired
businesses and entered  into certain licensing  and distribution agreements.  In
connection  with these acquisitions  and agreements were  assumed liabilities as
follows:
 

 
     On June 12, 1992,  the Company consummated a  transaction with Cooper  Life
Sciences,  Inc. ('CLS') which eliminated approximately 80% of the Company's $100
per share  liquidation  preference  Senior  Exchangeable  Redeemable  Restricted
Voting  Preferred  Stock ('SERPS')  and resulted  in  the issuance  of 4,850,000
shares of the  Company's common stock.  On June 14,  1993, the Company  acquired
from CLS all of the remaining outstanding SERPS of the Company in exchange for a
newly  created series  of preferred  stock of  the Company  ('Series B Preferred
Stock'). See Note 15, 'Agreements with  CLS,' for a further discussion of  these
transactions.
 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993, 1992, AND 1991
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 


                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
GENERAL
 
     The  Cooper Companies, Inc.  and its subsidiaries  (the 'Company') develop,
manufacture and market healthcare products, including  a range of hard and  soft
contact  lenses, ophthalmic pharmaceutical products  and diagnostic and surgical
instruments. On May 29, 1992, with the acquisition of Hospital Group of America,
Inc. ('HGA')(see  Note 2),  the  Company began  to provide  healthcare  services
through  the  ownership  and  operation of  certain  psychiatric  facilities and
management of other such facilities.
 
     With the  acquisition of  HGA, the  Company has  adopted certain  financial
accounting  and reporting practices which are specific to the healthcare service
industry.
 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the  Company.
Intercompany  transactions and  accounts are eliminated  in consolidation. Also,
certain reclassifications have been applied to prior years' financial statements
to conform such  statements to the  current year's presentation.  None of  these
reclassifications had any impact on net loss.
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
     Assets  and  liabilities of  the Company's  operations located  outside the
United States (primarily Canada) are translated at prevailing year-end rates  of
exchange. Related income and expense accounts are translated at weighted average
rates  for  each  year.  Gains  and losses  resulting  from  the  translation of
financial statements in foreign  currencies into U. S.  dollars are recorded  in
the equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. Gains and losses resulting
from  the impact  of changes  in exchange  rates on  transactions denominated in
foreign currencies  are included  in  the determination  of  net loss  for  each
period. Foreign exchange losses included in the Company's consolidated statement
of  operations for each of the years ended  October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 were
($550,000), ($769,000) and ($49,000), respectively.
 
NET SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net service  revenue consists  primarily of  net patient  service  revenue,
which  is based on the HGA  hospitals' established billing rates less allowances
and discounts principally for patients covered by Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross
and other  contractual programs.  Payments  under these  programs are  based  on
either   predetermined  rates   or  the   cost  of   services.  Settlements  for
retrospectively determined  rates  are  estimated  in  the  period  the  related
services  are rendered and  are adjusted in future  periods as final settlements
are determined. Management believes  that adequate provision  has been made  for
adjustments  that may  result from final  determination of  amounts earned under
these programs. Approximately 38%  and 41%, respectively, of  1993 and 1992  net
service  revenues are from  participation of hospitals  in Medicare and Medicaid
programs and Blue Cross.
 
     With respect to net service  revenue, receivables from government  programs
and  Blue Cross  represent the  only concentrated group  of credit  risk for the
Company, and  management  does not  believe  that  there are  any  credit  risks
associated  with  these  governmental  agencies or  Blue  Cross.  Negotiated and
private receivables  consist  of  receivables  from  various  payors,  including
individuals  involved  in  diverse  activities,  subject  to  differing economic
conditions, and do not represent any  concentrated credit risks to the  Company.
Furthermore,  management  continually  monitors  and  adjusts  its  reserves and
allowances associated with these receivables.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NET SALES OF PRODUCTS
 
     Net sales of products consists of sales from the Company's CooperVision and
CooperSurgical businesses. The Company recognizes  product revenue when risk  of
ownership  has transferred to  the buyer, with  appropriate provisions for sales
returns and uncollectible accounts.
 
     With  respect  to  net  sales   of  products,  management  believes   trade
receivables do not include any concentrated groups of credit risk.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash  and cash equivalents  includes commercial paper  and other short-term
income producing securities with a maturity date at purchase of three months  or
less. These investments are readily convertible to cash, and are carried at cost
which approximates market.
 
RESTRICTED CASH
 
     Restricted cash represents collateral for expiring insurance policies for a
discontinued contact lens insurance program.
 
TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS
 
     Temporary  investments  are primarily  current  marketable equity  and debt
securities. Current marketable  debt and  equity securities are  carried at  the
lower  of aggregate  cost or  market at the  balance sheet  date with unrealized
losses included  in investment  income,  net in  the statement  of  consolidated
operations.  Other  securities and  investments are  carried  at cost.  Gains or
losses realized  upon  sale  (based  on  the  first-in,  first-out  method)  and
write-downs  necessitated  by other  than temporary  declines  in value  for all
securities and investments are also reflected in investment income, net.
 
     As of October  31, 1993  and October 31,  1992, aggregate  cost and  market
value,  and gross unrealized gains and  losses for current marketable securities
are as follows:
 

 
     In addition, the  Company carried  certain non-marketable  equity and  debt
securities  at  October 31,  1992,  at cost  in  the amounts  of  $4,068,000 and
$2,100,000, respectively, in its temporary investments.
 
     Unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities included in the  table
above  compare the market value of the  Company's investment in securities as of
October 31, 1993  and 1992 versus  the cost of  such securities. The  unrealized
gains  and  losses do  not  indicate the  actual gains  or  losses that  will be
realized by the Company upon the disposition of such marketable securities.  The
net unrealized loss on the current marketable securities portfolio was increased
from  approximately $1,150,000 at October  31, 1993, to approximately $1,842,000
at December 31, 1993. For  the two months ended  December 31, 1993, the  Company
had net realized gains on investments of $191,000.
 
     Included  in the Company's marketable  debt securities portfolio at October
31, 1993 and 1992 are debt securities whose issuers are currently in default  of
interest  payments and/or in bankruptcy reorganization. Total debt securities in
default of  interest payments  and in  bankruptcy at  October 31,  1993 have  an
adjusted  carrying amount of  approximately $2,651,000 on  which the Company has
recorded an  aggregate  unrealized  loss of  $641,000.  The  maximum  additional
accounting loss the
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Company  would incur if these securities become worthless would be an additional
$2,010,000 (i.e. $2,651,000 less $641,000)  because the Company does not  accrue
interest income on such issues.
 
     Included  in the statement of consolidated operations in investment income,
net for each of the years ended  October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 are  unrealized
gains  (losses)  of $6,532,000,  ($6,244,000)  and $2,797,000,  respectively, on
current marketable securities. Also included  in investment income, net for  the
years  ended October 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991 are net realized gains (losses) of
($7,356,000),  $13,538,000   and  ($2,586,000),   respectively,  on   marketable
equities,  debt  securities and  option contracts.  The  combined impact  of the
aforementioned net unrealized and realized gains (losses) for each of the  years
ended  October 31,  1993, 1992  and 1991  was a  net gain  (loss) of ($824,000),
$7,294,000 and $211,000, respectively.
 
     Interest income for each of the years ended October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991
was $2,439,000, $6,960,000  and $12,057,000,  respectively, and  is included  in
investment income, net. Dividend income in any reported year was de minimis.
 
     A  former Co-Chairman  of the  Company and, by  reason of  his actions, the
Company, have been  convicted of violations  of federal criminal  laws, and  the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission (the  'SEC') has  initiated an  action with
respect to, among other  things, trading in  certain marketable debt  securities
previously owned by the Company. For a further discussion, see Note 18.
 
LOANS AND ADVANCES
 
     Loans  and advances were made by the Company to certain of its officers and
employees at interest rates ranging from  9.0% to 9.5% per annum. The  principal
amount  of  loans and  advances outstanding  at  October 31,  1993 and  1992 was
$65,000 and $902,000, respectively.
 
INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are stated  at the  lower of  cost, determined  on a  first-in,
first-out or average cost basis, or market.
 
UNAMORTIZED BOND DISCOUNT
 
     The  difference between the carrying amount and the principal amount of the
Company's 10  5/8%  Convertible  Subordinated Reset  Debentures  due  2005  (the
'Debentures')  represents unamortized discount which is being charged to expense
over the life of the  issue. As of October 31,  1993, the amount of  unamortized
discount was $387,000.
 
DEPRECIATION AND LEASEHOLD AMORTIZATION
 
     Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line method in amounts sufficient
to write-off  the cost  or  carrying amount  of  depreciable assets  over  their
estimated useful lives. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of
their estimated useful lives or the period of the related lease.
 
EXPENDITURES FOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
 
     Expenditures  for maintenance and repairs are expensed; major replacements,
renewals and betterments are capitalized. The cost and accumulated  depreciation
of  assets retired or  otherwise disposed of  are eliminated from  the asset and
accumulated depreciation  accounts, and  any gains  or losses  are reflected  in
operations for the period.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization  is currently provided for on all intangible assets (primarily
goodwill, which represents the excess of  purchase price over fair value of  net
assets  acquired) on a straight-line  basis over periods of  up to thirty years.
Accumulated  amortization  at  October  31,  1993  and  1992  was  approximately
$3,059,000 and $2,155,000, respectively. The Company assesses the recoverability
of goodwill by determining whether the amortization of goodwill balance over its
remaining life can be recovered through reasonably expected future results.
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AND COMPENSATION EXPENSE
 
     Under  the Company's 1988  Long Term Incentive  Plan, its 1990 Non-Employee
Directors' Restricted Stock Plan and its predecessor Restricted Stock Plans (see
Note 12),  certain  officers  and  key employees  designated  by  the  Board  of
Directors  or a committee thereof  have purchased, for par  value, shares of the
Company's common stock restricted as  to resale ('Restricted Shares') unless  or
until  certain  prescribed  objectives  are met  or  certain  events  occur. The
difference between market value  and par value of  the Restricted Shares on  the
date of grant is recorded as unamortized restricted stock award compensation and
shown  as a component  of stockholders' equity. This  compensation is charged to
operations as earned.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     Income  taxes  are  provided  for  in  the  period  in  which  the  related
transactions enter into the determination of net income. No provisions have been
made  for taxes which  may become payable should  income of subsidiaries outside
the United  States be  remitted to  the  Company (see  Note 9).  Investment  tax
credits and other credits are applied as a reduction of the provision for United
States federal income taxes on the flow-through method.
 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
     Net  income (loss)  per common  share is  determined by  using the weighted
average number of common  shares and common  share equivalents (stock  warrants)
outstanding  during  each year.  Stock  options have  not  been included  in the
determination  of  earnings  per  common  share  for  any  period  as  they  are
anti-dilutive or resulted in dilution of less than 3%.
 
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
ACQUISITIONS
 
     On April 1, 1993, CooperVision, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, acquired
via a purchase transaction the stock of CoastVision for approximately $9,800,000
cash.  CoastVision manufactures  and markets a  range of  contact lens products,
primarily custom  soft  toric contact  lenses,  which are  designed  to  correct
astigmatism.  The purchase  of CoastVision expands  CooperVision's customer base
for its existing product lines. CoastVision  had net sales of $9,600,000 in  its
fiscal  year  ended  October 31,  1992.  Excess  cost over  net  assets acquired
recorded on the purchase was $7,500,000, which is being amortized over 30 years.
 
     On May 29, 1992, the Company acquired  all of the common stock of  Hospital
Group  of America, Inc. ('HGA') from  its ultimate parent, Nu-Med Inc. ('NuMed')
for a total consideration of approximately $50,000,000 including $15,898,000  in
cash, the assumption of approximately $22,000,000 of third party debt of HGA and
the  delivery of $21,685,000 principal amount  of Nu-Med debentures owned by the
Company  (including  $3,525,000  principal  amount  of  'Affiliate  debentures,'
defined  and  described  below),  in  which the  Company  had  a  cost  basis of
approximately $12,322,000. The Company
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
used  available  cash  to  purchase  the  Nu-Med  debentures  and  to  make  the
$15,898,000 payment at closing.
 
     Except  for  the 'Affiliate  debentures' defined  and described  below, the
Company acquired the Nu-Med debentures in  open market transactions for a  total
cost  of approximately $10,374,000. On April 13, 1992, the Company acquired, for
a total cost  of approximately  $1,948,000, an  additional $3,525,000  principal
amount  of Nu-Med debentures (the 'Affiliate debentures') from an individual and
a corporation (together, the 'Affiliates') related to or affiliated with Messrs.
Gary, Steven and Brad Singer. The  Affiliate debentures were tendered to  Nu-Med
at  the same price paid by the Company. At the time of the transaction, Gary and
Steven Singer were each officers and  directors of the Company, and Brad  Singer
was  a director of the  Company. The Affiliate debentures  were purchased by the
Company at  the cost  paid  by the  Affiliates  plus accrued  interest  thereon,
following the approval of the majority of the disinterested members of the Board
of  Directors of the Company. To protect the Company against any potential loss,
it acquired the Affiliate  debentures pursuant to an  agreement that would  have
allowed  the Company to 'put' the Affiliate debentures back to the Affiliates at
the Company's cost if the acquisition of HGA had not occurred.
 
     HGA provides  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  treatment  through  three
hospitals  with a total  of 259 beds at  the time of  the acquisition, which was
subsequently increased to 269.
 
     Concurrently, PSG Management, Inc. ('PSG Management'), a subsidiary of  the
Company, entered into a management agreement with three indirect subsidiaries of
Nu-Med  under which PSG Management is  managing three additional hospitals owned
by such  subsidiaries  which  have a  total  of  220 licensed  beds.  Under  the
management  agreement, PSG Management is entitled to receive a management fee of
$6,000,000 payable in equal monthly installments over the three year term of the
agreement. The  management  agreement is  jointly  and severally  guaranteed  by
Nu-Med  and  its wholly-owned  subsidiary, PsychGroup,  Inc.  the parent  of the
contracting subsidiaries which own the  managed facilities. On January 6,  1993,
Nu-Med  (but not any of  its direct or indirect  subsidiaries) filed a voluntary
petition under Chapter  11 of  the United  States Bankruptcy  Code. Neither  the
Company  nor any of its affiliates filed a  proof of claim in the Nu-Med Chapter
11 proceeding, and the bar date (the time for filing proofs of claims) has past.
However, none of  the Nu-Med subsidiaries  has filed under  Chapter 11, and  the
Nu-Med  subsidiaries have  paid the management  fee on a  timely basis, although
representatives of Nu-Med and its subsidiaries have alleged in writing that  PSG
Management  has breached the Management Services Agreement (which contention PSG
Management  vigorously   disputes).  Moreover,   Nu-Med's  Proposed   Disclosure
Statement to accompany its Second Amended Plan of Reorganization, filed with the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California, indicates
that  PsychGroup,  Inc.  is  commencing  performance  of  certain administrative
functions performed by PSG Management on a parallel basis.
 
     The acquisition of HGA  was accounted for as  a purchase. Accordingly,  the
results  of HGA's operations were included in the Company's consolidated results
from acquisition date.  Excess of cost  over net assets  acquired has  initially
been  estimated to be $6,155,000, subject  to purchase price adjustments per the
sales agreement, and is being amortized over 30 years.
 
     Had the acquisition  of HGA  occurred on  November 1,  1991, the  Company's
unaudited  pro forma combined  net revenue, loss  from continuing operations and
loss  from  continuing  operations  per  share  would  have  been   $95,320,000,
($15,586,000)  and ($.56), respectively, for the twelve months ended October 31,
1992. Had  such  acquisition  occurred  on  November  1,  1990,  the  comparable
unaudited  pro forma  combined figures for  the twelve months  ended October 31,
1991 would have been $82,951,000, ($19,394,000) and ($.84), respectively.
 
     During 1992, the Company acquired two  parcels of land having an  aggregate
cost  of  $3,149,000.  The  land  is carried  at  cost  in  property,  plant and
equipment. Concurrently, the  Company entered  into two  lease agreements  under
which   the  Company  is  entitled  to  receive  rental  payments  amounting  to
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
approximately $22,000,000 over the  next 48 years. The  subject parcels of  land
were sold in fiscal 1994 for cash and notes aggregating the approximate original
purchase price.
 
     In  December 1990 and January 1991, the Company acquired Euro-Med Endoscope
and Euro-Med, Inc., for  cash and notes in  the aggregate amount of  $3,250,000.
The   two  companies  offer  a  line  of  surgical  instruments  and  diagnostic
hysteroscopy equipment for  use in gynecologic  and minimally invasive  surgical
procedures.  Excess cost over  net assets acquired for  these two businesses was
$2,082,000.
 
     In November 1990, the Company entered into a license agreement under  which
the  Company will support the licensor's efforts to obtain FDA approvals so that
the  Company  may  manufacture,  market   and  sell  Verapamil  for   ophthalmic
applications.
 
DISPOSITIONS
 
     On  February 12, 1993,  the Company sold its  EYEscrub'tm' product line for
$1,400,000 cash which resulted in a $620,000 gain. The Company retains the right
to  market   certain   ophthalmic  pharmaceutical   surgical   kits   containing
EYEscrub'tm' once certain regulatory requirements are met.
 
     On  January 31, 1992, the Company assigned its license to manufacture, have
manufactured, sell, distribute and market certain intraocular lens products  and
disposed  of certain other  related rights and  assets. Total cash consideration
received by the Company for such assignment was approximately $5,200,000,  which
resulted in a pretax gain of $1,030,000.
 
     On  June 29, 1989, the Company completed the sale of Cooper Technicon, Inc.
('CTI'), the  Company's  former  automated  medical  diagnostic  and  industrial
analytical  systems business, to Miles Inc. ('Miles'), a subsidiary of Bayer USA
Inc., a  subsidiary of  Bayer A  G,  West Germany,  in a  transaction  involving
approximately $477,000,000, consisting of cash and the elimination of CTI's debt
of   approximately  $290,000,000  from   the  Company's  consolidated  financial
statements. Pursuant to the  terms of the  sale, the Company  sold all of  CTI's
capital  stock for approximately $191,000,000  reduced by $4,000,000 for certain
adjustments, resulting in a net  cash receipt of approximately $187,000,000,  of
which  $10,000,000 was placed in escrow to secure certain post-closing indemnity
obligations of the Company.  During 1990, $150,000 of  the escrow principal  was
released to Miles. As of October 31, 1992, $9,850,000 of the escrow was included
in  'Other receivables' in the Company's consolidated balance sheet. During 1993
$7,550,000 of such funds were collected  by the Company, with the balance  being
released  to Miles. The funds released to  Miles were charged against an accrual
for such purpose.
 
NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In 1993,  the Company  recorded a  charge of  $14,000,000 to  increase  the
Company's  accrual  (the 'Breast  Implant  Accrual') for  contingent liabilities
associated  with   breast  implant   litigation   involving  the   plastic   and
reconstructive  surgical  division  of  the  Company's  former  Cooper  Surgical
business segment which was sold in fiscal 1989. See Note 18 for a discussion  of
breast  implant  litigation.  The Breast  Implant  Accrual will  be  charged for
payments made and to be made to MEC  under the MEC Agreement (see Note 14 for  a
discussion  of the schedule of payments) as  well as certain related charges. In
October 1993  the Company  made the  initial payment  of $3,000,000  to MEC.  At
October  31,  1993 the  Company  is carrying  $9,000,000  of the  Breast Implant
Accrual in 'Deferred  income taxes  and other  non current  liabilities' on  the
Company's  Consolidated Balance Sheet for future  payments to MEC, none of which
is due for repayment in one year or less from October 31, 1993. The Company also
recorded a  reversal of  $343,000 of  accruals no  longer necessary  related  to
another discontinued business.
 
     In  1992,  the  Company recorded  a  charge of  $9,300,000  to discontinued
operations. A  charge of  $7,000,000  represents an  increase to  the  Company's
Breast  Implant  Accrual.  See  Note  18  for  a  discussion  of  breast implant
litigation. The balance  of the  charge reflects  a $2,000,000  settlement of  a
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
dispute involving the Company's former Surgical business segment, and a $300,000
adjustment  to the  loss on  the sale of  the Company's  former Cooper Technicon
business segment.
 
     No tax benefit has been applied  against the above figures, as the  Company
was not profitable in either year.
 
NOTE 4. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS
 
     The  extraordinary gain of $924,000, or  $.03 per share, in 1993 represents
gains  on  the  Company's  purchases  of  $4,846,000  principal  amount  of  its
Debentures.  The purchases were privately  negotiated and executed at prevailing
market prices.
 
     The extraordinary gain of $640,000, or  $.02 per share, in 1992  represents
gains  on  the  Company's  purchases  of  $5,031,000  principal  amount  of  its
Debentures. Substantially all  of the  purchases were  privately negotiated  and
executed at prevailing market prices.
 
     The extraordinary gain of $5,428,000, or $.21 per share, in 1991 represents
gains  on  the  Company's  purchases  of  $23,166,000  principal  amount  of its
Debentures, including $8,518,000 owned by Brad, Gary and Steven Singer (each  of
whom  was  an  officer  and/or  director  of the  Company  at  the  time  of the
transaction) or  their  relatives, $7,656,000  owned  by Moses  Marx  (a  former
director  of  the Company)  and  $2,115,000 owned  by  Mel Schnell,  currently a
director of the Company and a director and President and Chief Executive Officer
of Cooper Life  Sciences, Inc.  ('CLS'). See Note  7. Substantially  all of  the
purchases were privately negotiated and executed at or slightly below prevailing
market prices.
 
NOTE 5. STOCKHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN
 
     On  October 29,  1987, the  Board of  Directors of  the Company  declared a
dividend distribution of one right for  each outstanding share of the  Company's
common  stock, par  value $.10  per share (a  'Right'). Each  Right entitles the
registered holder  of an  outstanding share  of the  Company's common  stock  to
initially  purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-hundredth of a
share of Series  A Junior Participating  Preferred Stock (a  'Unit'), par  value
$.10  per share, at a purchase price  of $60.00 per Unit, subject to adjustment.
The Rights are  exercisable only if  a person or  group acquires (an  'Acquiring
Person'),  or generally obtains the right to acquire beneficial ownership of 20%
or more of the Company's common stock,  or commences a tender or exchange  offer
which  would result in such  person or group beneficially  owning 30% or more of
the Company's common stock.
 
     If, following the acquisition of 20% or more of the Company's common stock,
(i) the  Company is  the surviving  corporation in  a merger  with an  Acquiring
Person  and its common stock is not changed, (ii) a person or entity becomes the
beneficial owner  of more  than 30%  of the  Company's common  stock, except  in
certain  circumstances such as  through a tender  or exchange offer  for all the
Company's common stock which  the Board of Directors  determines to be fair  and
otherwise  in the best interests  of the Company and  its stockholders, (iii) an
Acquiring Person engages in certain  self-dealing transactions or (iv) an  event
occurs  which  results  in  such  Acquiring  Person's  ownership  interest being
increased by more  than 1%,  each holder  of a  Right, other  than an  Acquiring
Person,  will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, the Company's
common stock (or, in certain  circumstances, cash, property or other  securities
of  the Company)  having a value  equal to two  times the exercise  price of the
Right. The Board of Directors amended  the Rights Agreement dated as of  October
29,  1987, between the Company and The  First National Bank of Boston, as Rights
Agent, so  that  Cooper Life  Sciences,  Inc.  ('CLS') and  its  affiliates  and
associates  would  not be  Acquiring  Persons thereunder  as  a result  of CLS's
beneficial ownership of  more than 20%  of the outstanding  common stock of  the
Company  by reason of its ownership of  Series B Preferred Stock or common stock
issued upon conversion thereof. See Note 15 under 'Agreements With CLS.'
 
     Under certain circumstances, if (i) the Company is acquired in a merger  or
other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving
corporation, unless (a) the
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
transaction  occurs  pursuant  to a  transaction  which the  Board  of Directors
determines to  be  fair  and in  the  best  interests of  the  Company  and  its
stockholders  (b) the price per share of Common Stock offered in the transaction
is not  less than  the price  per  share of  common stock  paid to  all  holders
pursuant  to the tender or exchange offer, and (c) the consideration used in the
transaction is the same as that paid pursuant to the offer, or (ii) 50% or  more
of  the Company's assets or earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of
a Right, other  than an  Acquiring Person, shall  thereafter have  the right  to
receive,  upon exercise,  common stock of  the acquiring company  having a value
equal to two times the exercise price of the Right.
 
     At any time until the close of business on the tenth day following a public
announcement that an Acquiring  Person has acquired,  or generally obtained  the
right  to acquire beneficial  ownership of 20%  or more of  the Company's common
stock, the Company will generally be entitled to redeem the Rights in whole, but
not in part,  at a  price of  $.05 per Right.  After the  redemption period  has
expired,  the Company's  right of redemption  may be reinstated  if an Acquiring
Person reduces his beneficial ownership to 10% or less of the outstanding shares
of common stock  in a transaction  or series of  transactions not involving  the
Company.
 
     Until  a Right  is exercised,  the holder  thereof, as  such, will  have no
rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right
to vote or to receive dividends. The Rights expire on October 29, 1997.
 
NOTE 6. COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS
 
     In the second quarter of 1993, the Company recorded a restructuring  charge
of   $451,000  for  consolidation  of   CooperSurgical  facilities  and  related
reorganization and relocation costs.
 
NOTE 7. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
 
     The Company and  CLS entered into  a settlement agreement,  dated July  14,
1993,  pursuant to which CLS  delivered a general release  of claims against the
Company, subject to exceptions  for specified on-going contractual  obligations,
and  agreed to certain restrictions on  its acquisitions, voting and transfer of
securities of the Company, in exchange  for the Company's payment of  $4,000,000
in  cash and  delivery of  200,000 shares of  common stock  of CLS  owned by the
Company and  a  general  release  of claims  against  CLS,  subject  to  similar
exceptions.  See Note 15 for a discussion of the settlement terms. The cash paid
and fair value  of CLS  shares returned  to CLS  were charged  to the  Company's
statement  of operations  for 1993 as  settlement of disputes.  In addition, the
Company charged  $1,500,000 to  the statement  of operations  for certain  other
disputes.
 
     Included  in  fiscal 1992  is  a charge  for  settlement of  disputes which
includes 1) a $650,000 charge related to a transaction with CLS, 2) a payment to
Mr. Frederick R.  Adler and 3)  provisions for several  ongoing litigations  and
disputes including the tentative settlement of Guenther v. Cooper Life Sciences,
Inc. et. al.
 
     In April 1992, Frederick R. Adler, a former director of the Company at that
time,  notified the Company that he would solicit proxies to elect his own slate
of nominees at the 1992 Annual  Meeting of Shareholders (the 'Annual  Meeting'),
in  opposition to  the Board's  nominees to the  Board of  Directors (the 'Proxy
Contest'). On June 15, 1992, Mr. Adler and the Company entered into a settlement
agreement with  respect to  the Proxy  Contest pursuant  to which  the Board  of
Directors  set the size of the Board at nine members, effective as of the Annual
Meeting, and nominated Mr. Adler and Louis  A. Craco, a partner in the law  firm
of  Willkie,  Farr &  Gallagher, for  election  to the  Board together  with the
Board's seven other nominees, Arthur C. Bass, Allen H. Collins, M.D., Joseph  C.
Feghali,  Mark A. Filler,  Michael H. Kalkstein, Allan  E. Rubenstein, M.D., and
Robert S. Weiss. The  settlement agreement provided for  the replacement of  Mr.
Adler  by one of three designated persons if he was unable or unwilling to serve
as a  director  following  his  election at  the  Annual  Meeting.  In  December
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
1992,  Mr. Adler resigned  from the Company's Board  of Directors and designated
Michael R. Golding,  M.D., as  his replacement. As  part of  the settlement,  in
which  the parties exchanged mutual releases of  claims arising out of the Proxy
Contest and litigation brought in connection therewith, Mr. Adler agreed,  among
other  things,  not to  solicit proxies  in  opposition to  the election  of the
Board's nine nominees at the Annual Meeting and not to take any action to call a
special meeting of stockholders or solicit stockholder consents with respect  to
the  election  or removal  of  directors prior  to  the 1993  annual  meeting of
stockholders of the Company. The Company also reimbursed Mr. Adler for  $348,000
of  expenses actually incurred by  him in connection with  the Proxy Contest and
negotiation of the settlement agreement.
 
     In 1992  the  Company reached  an  agreement involving  the  settlement  of
Guenther  v. Cooper Life  Sciences, et. al., a  class and shareholder derivative
action filed against CLS,  the Company, Cooper  Development Company, a  Delaware
corporation  ('CDC'), Parker G. Montgomery, A. Kenneth Nilsson, Charles Crocker,
Robert W. Jamplis, Barbara Foster as executrix of the Estate of Hugh K.  Foster,
Michael  Mitzmacher, Joseph A. Dornig, Martin M. Koffel, Richard W. Turner, John
Vuko, Randolph Stockwell, Hambrecht &  Quist, Incorporated, Peat Marwick Main  &
Co.,  Gryphon Associates,  L.P. and The  Gryphon Management Group,  Ltd. in June
1988 in  the United  States District  Court for  the District  of Minnesota  and
transferred  in December 1988 to the District Court for the Northern District of
California. As amended, the action alleged various securities law violations and
shareholder derivative claims in connection with the public disclosures by,  and
management  of,  CLS from  1985  to 1988.  The  Company formerly  shared certain
officers and  directors with  CLS and  is alleged  to have  controlled CLS.  The
settlement  resolved  all claims  asserted against  the  Company and  its former
officers and directors.  On April 30,  1993, the court  approved the  settlement
after  notice to the plaintiff class and a court hearing. In accordance with the
settlement, the  case  has  been dismissed  as  to  the Company  and  all  other
defendants.  The  settlement provided  for a  payment  by Optics  Cayman Islands
Insurance Ltd.,  a subsidiary  of  the Company  (which provided  directors'  and
officers'  liability insurance to  some of the  above-named individuals), in the
amount of $2,200,000 on behalf of the directors and officers of CLS, as well  as
a payment of $1,800,000 by the Company. The settlement amount was fully reserved
in the books of the Company at July 31, 1992 and paid into escrow by October 31,
1992.
 
NOTE 8. PREFERRED STOCK
 
     On  June  14, 1993,  the Company  acquired  from CLS  all of  the remaining
outstanding shares  of  the Company's  SERPS,  having an  aggregate  liquidation
preference  of  $16,060,000,  together  with  all  rights  to  any  dividends or
distributions thereon, in exchange for shares of Series B Preferred Stock having
an aggregate liquidation preference  of $3,450,000 and a  par value of $.10  per
share.  The 345 shares of  Series B Preferred Stock, and  any shares of Series B
Preferred Stock issued as  dividends, are convertible into  one share of  common
stock  of  the Company  for  each $1.00  of  liquidation preference,  subject to
customary antidilution adjustments.  The Company  also has the  right to  compel
conversion of Series B Preferred Stock at any time after the market price of the
common  stock on its  principal trading market  averages at least  $1.375 for 90
consecutive calendar days and closes at not less than $1.375 on at least 80%  of
the  trading days  during such  period. CLS  currently owns  4,850,000 shares of
common stock, or approximately 16.2% of the Company's outstanding common  stock.
See Note 15.
 
     Dividends  will accrue on the Series  B Preferred Stock commencing June 14,
1994, and will be payable  quarterly in cash at the  rate of 9% (of  liquidation
preference)  per annum  or, if  the Company is  restricted by  applicable law or
certain debt  agreements from  paying cash  dividends, in  additional shares  of
Series  B Preferred  Stock at  the rate of  12% (of  liquidation preference) per
annum. The Series B Preferred Stock is  redeemable, in whole or in part, at  the
option  of the  Company, at  any time at  a redemption  price equal  to its then
applicable liquidation preference, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9. INCOME TAXES
 
     The components of  income (loss) from  continuing operations before  income
taxes and extraordinary items and the provision for income taxes are as follows:
 

 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
the  Company's statement of  consolidated operations and  the amount computed by
applying the United States  statutory federal income tax  rate to income  (loss)
from continuing operations before extraordinary items and income taxes follows:
 

 
     At  October 31, 1993,  the Company had net  operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $224,000,000 for  financial statement  purposes and  approximately
$243,000,000   for  income  tax  purposes,  and  investment  tax,  research  and
development and job tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2,455,000 all  of
which  will expire in varying  amounts beginning in the  year ending October 31,
1999.
 
     Income taxes  have not  been  provided for  the undistributed  earnings  of
subsidiaries operating outside the United States. There were no such earnings of
the  Company at October 31, 1993. During  1992 and 1991, the Company repatriated
$3,655,000 and $1,713,000, respectively, of  earnings of the Company's  selected
subsidiaries. Such repatriations did not result in a material increase in income
taxes.
 
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, 'Accounting for Income
Taxes'  ('FAS 109')  was issued by  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board in
February 1992. FAS 109 requires a
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
change from the deferred method under APB Opinion 11 to the asset and  liability
method  of accounting for income taxes. Under  the asset and liability method of
FAS 109, deferred income  taxes are recognized for  the future tax  consequences
attributable  to differences between bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in  the
years  in  which those  temporary differences  are expected  to be  recovered or
settled. Under FAS 109, the effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
     FAS 109 must be adopted for  years beginning after December 15, 1992.  Upon
adoption,  the  provisions of  FAS 109  may be  applied without  restating prior
years' financial statements  or may  be applied retroactively  by restating  any
number of consecutive prior years' financial statements.
 
     Upon  adoption in  the 1994  fiscal year,  the Company  plans to  apply the
provisions of FAS 109 without  restating prior years' financial statements.  The
Company anticipates that the adoption of FAS 109 will not have a material impact
on  the financial statements.  No benefit will be  recognized for operating loss
and tax credit carryforwards since  the deferred tax asset  will be offset by  a
valuation reserve.
 
NOTE 10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
     A summary of property, plant and equipment follows:
 

 
- ------------
 
* Includes approximately $3,000,000 for two parcels of land sold in fiscal 1994.
  See Note 2.
 
     Depreciation  and  leasehold amortization  expense amounted  to $2,624,000,
$1,537,000 and $1,039,000 for the years  ended October 31, 1993, 1992 and  1991,
respectively.
 
NOTE 11. LONG-TERM DEBT, NOTES PAYABLE AND WARRANTS
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     As  used herein,  the term  'Indenture' means  the indenture  governing the
Company's Debentures. The Indenture has been amended twice (and unless specified
herein or the context requires otherwise, references to the Indenture are to the
Indenture as  so amended):  first, pursuant  to a  First Supplemental  Indenture
dated  as  of June  29,  1989, and  second,  pursuant to  a  Second Supplemental
Indenture dated as of January 6, 1994.
 
     During the year ended October 31, 1989, in order to consummate the sale  of
CTI (see Note 2), the Company was required to obtain the approval of the sale by
the  holders of a  majority of the  Company's Debentures which  were then 8 5/8%
Convertible Subordinated  Debentures due  2005 (the  '8 5/8%  Debentures').  The
Company's Consent Solicitation and Offer to Purchase sought consents for:
 
           the sale of CTI
 
           the sale of the Optometrics business
 
           the adoption of the First Supplemental Indenture.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The  Company received the requisite  consents and, in connection therewith,
upon consummating the  CTI sale, purchased  approximately $70,000,000  principal
amount  of  the  8 5/8%  Debentures,  and  entered into  the  First Supplemental
Indenture, which amended  certain terms  of the Indenture.  Under these  amended
terms,  the interest rate on the 8 5/8%  Debentures was increased from 8 5/8% to
10 5/8% per annum, effective June 29,  1989. Reflecting this change, the 8  5/8%
Debentures  were retitled the '10 5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset Debentures
due 2005'. In addition, under  the terms of the  Indenture as then amended,  the
Company  was required to reset  the interest rate on  the Debentures on June 15,
1991, to a rate per annum, as determined by two nationally recognized investment
banking firms selected  by the Company,  such that the  Debentures would have  a
market  value equal to  75% of their  principal amount on  such date. The market
value of  the  Debentures was  75%  of principal  value  as of  June  15,  1991;
therefore,  no interest rate reset was necessary.  The SEC has filed a complaint
for Permanent  Injunction  and  Other Equitable  Relief  (the  'SEC  Complaint')
alleging,  among other things, federal securities laws violations by the Company
and Gary Singer,  a former  Co-Chairman of the  Company, in  connection with  an
alleged  manipulation of  the price  and demand  of the  Debentures to  avoid an
allegedly required reset.  The SEC Complaint  alleges that Gary  Singer and  the
Company  manipulated the trading  price of the Debentures,  and that Gary Singer
obtained allegedly false opinion letters from two firms, which letters failed to
meet the Indenture requirements to avoid such reset. See Note 18.
 
     As a  result  of the  losses  experienced  by the  Company,  the  Company's
Adjusted  Net Worth, as defined in the Indenture (as in effect after adoption of
the First Supplemental Indenture but prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer
and Solicitation more fully discussed in Note 19), was $24,580,000 at April  30,
1993, $10,965,000 at July 31, 1993 and $452,000 at October 31, 1993. As a result
of  the  Company's  Adjusted  Net  Worth  remaining  below  $41,500,000  for two
consecutive fiscal quarters, the Company was required, pursuant to Section  4.09
of  the Indenture (as then in  effect), to purchase $15,000,000 principal amount
of Debentures in the open market or  through private transactions or to make  an
offer  to all  holders to  purchase $15,000,000  principal amount  of Debentures
(less the  principal amount  of any  Debentures purchased  after July  31,  1993
through  market or private  purchases) at the optional  redemption price then in
effect, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The maximum purchases that the Company
was required to  make to comply  with the covenant  would have been  $15,000,000
principal amount of Debentures every six months, beginning October 25, 1993.
 
     In  addition, pursuant to Section 4.14 of the Indenture (as in effect after
adoption of the First  Supplemental Indenture but prior  to consummation of  the
Exchange  Offer and Solicitation), if all of the outstanding Debentures were not
repurchased in connection with the covenant  described above and if the  Company
had  an Adjusted Net  Worth of less than  $350,000,000 at January  31, 1995 or a
Cash Flow Coverage Ratio of less than 5 to 1 for the fiscal quarter then  ended,
the  Company  would  have  been  required to  purchase,  in  June  of  1995, all
Debentures then outstanding at 100% of principal amount plus accrued and  unpaid
interest.
 
     In  its Annual Report  on Form 10-K  for the fiscal  year ended October 31,
1991, as amended, the Company disclosed the following transactions: On July  11,
1991,  the Company  purchased $450,000  principal amount  of Bally's  Grand Inc.
11 1/2% bonds (the 'Bally's Grand Bonds')  for $301,500. On July 16, 1991,  Gary
Singer purchased $500,000 principal amount of Bally's Grand Bonds for his wife's
account for $340,000. On August 7, 1991, the Company purchased the Bally's Grand
Bonds  held in his wife's account for  $345,000. The Company has been advised by
counsel for Mr.  Singer that in  transactions such as  this transaction and  the
transactions  described below,  because prices  for these  bonds are  not widely
quoted, it was Mr. Singer's practice  to confirm the market price by  requesting
market  price information from brokers. Mr.  Singer's wife received net proceeds
on such sale of $344,470.50. On September  5, 1992, the Company sold its  entire
position  of Bally's Grand Bonds for $656,687.50. On July 23, July 26 and August
5, 1991, the Company  purchased an aggregate of  $9,500,000 principal amount  of
Petrolane  Gas  13  1/4%  bonds  (the 'Petrolane  Bonds')  for  an  aggregate of
$3,361,875. On September 17, 1991, the Company sold $6,000,000 principal  amount
of its Petrolane
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Bonds,  for  an aggregate  of $2,520,000.  On  September 19,  1991, it  sold its
remaining $3,500,000 principal amount of bonds  to a relative of Mr. Singer  for
$1,400,000. Mr. Singer's relative purchased such bonds for $1,404,375 (including
broker  mark-up) and sold a portion of them  on September 30, and the balance on
October 2, 1991, receiving aggregate proceeds of $1,469,375. On September 24 and
26, 1991, the Company purchased an  aggregate of $4,887,000 principal amount  of
DR  Holdings  Bonds for  an aggregate  of  $2,385,195. On  October 1,  1991, the
Company sold  its DR  Holdings Bonds  to the  same relative  of Mr.  Singer  for
$2,565,675.  Mr.  Singer's  relative  purchased  such  bonds  for  $2,571,783.75
(including broker mark-up) and sold them on October 2, 1991, for $2,907,765.  On
or  about September 27, 1991, the  Company purchased $2,213,000 principal amount
of DR Holdings  Bonds for $1,156,292.50.  On or  about October 4,  1991, the  DR
Holdings Bonds were transferred to a securities brokerage account in the name of
the  wife  of Gary  Singer,  and, on  or  about October  7,  1991, a  payment of
$1,156,292.50 was made  by Mr.  Singer's wife to  the Company.  Counsel for  Mr.
Singer  has advised  the Company  that Mr.  Singer intended  to purchase  the DR
Holdings Bonds for his  wife's account, that the  transaction was executed in  a
Company  account as  the result  of a  broker's error,  and that  the subsequent
transfer of the DR Holdings Bonds from  a Company account to his wife's  account
and  payment by his wife to the  Company, as described above, were undertaken to
correct the  broker's error.  Counsel for  Mr. Singer  has further  advised  the
Company  that,  on  October  2,  1991, Mr.  Singer's  wife  sold  the $2,213,000
principal amount of DR Holdings Bonds for $1,316,735.
 
     Gary Singer  was  convicted  of  violations of  federal  criminal  laws  in
connection  with  certain of  the foregoing  transactions,  and certain  of such
transactions are also  the subject  of allegations  in the  SEC Complaint  that,
among  other things,  Gary Singer  entered into such  trades for  the purpose of
diverting profits from the Company to such relatives. See Note 18. Section  4.12
of  the Indenture (as in effect prior  to consummation of the Exchange Offer and
Solicitation) contained  a covenant  limiting the  Company's ability  to,  among
other things, sell any of its property or assets to, or purchase any property or
assets  from, any Affiliate of the Company  (as defined in the Indenture as then
in effect).
 
     Section 4.18 of  the Indenture (as  in effect after  adoption of the  First
Supplemental  Indenture  but prior  to consummation  of  the Exchange  Offer and
Solicitation) contained a covenant prohibiting  the Company from maintaining  an
equity  interest for  more than  eighteen months  in, and  making any  direct or
indirect advances, loans or  other extensions of credit  to, any person that  is
not consolidated with the Company. From time to time, the Company has maintained
an  equity interest in unconsolidated persons for more than the permitted period
and may have engaged in transactions that  could be construed to be a direct  or
indirect  advance,  loan  or  other  extension of  credit  in  violation  of the
Indenture as then in effect.
 
     Breach of the  covenants contained  in Section 4.09,  4.12 or  4.18 of  the
Indenture  or the reset obligation contained in the Debentures (in each case, as
in effect  after adoption  of  the First  Supplemental  Indenture but  prior  to
consummation  of the  Exchange Offer and  Solicitation) was a  Default under the
Indenture, which  would have  led to  an Event  of Default  under the  Indenture
(providing grounds for the Trustee or the holders ('Holders') of at least 25% in
principal amount of the Debentures then outstanding to declare the principal and
accrued  interest on the outstanding Debentures  immediately due and payable) if
such Default was not cured within 60 days of the Company's receipt of notice  of
the  Default from  the Trustee  or such  Holders. The  Company did  not have the
necessary cash  resources to  pay  the principal  and  accrued interest  on  the
outstanding Debentures (totalling approximately $40,000,000 at October 31, 1993)
in  the  event  that  the  Debentures  were  successfully  accelerated  and such
acceleration were not rescinded.
 
     Consummation of the Exchange Offer and Solicitation in January 1994 and the
execution of the Second Supplemental  Indenture pursuant thereto eliminated  the
requirement  that the Company  purchase Debentures by reason  of Section 4.09 of
the Indenture and  eliminated the  risk that the  Company would  be required  to
purchase Debentures by reason of Section 4.14 of the Indenture. In addition, the
Company  obtained, pursuant to  the Exchange Offer  and Solicitation, the waiver
(the 'Waiver')  of  any  and  all  Defaults and  Events  of  Default  and  their
consequences under the Debentures
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
and  the Indenture arising out of any  actions, omissions or events occurring on
or prior to 5:00 p.m. New York  City time, January 6, 1994, the expiration  date
of  the Exchange Offer  and Solicitation (the  'Expiration Date'), including any
Defaults or Events of Default arising out of the matters described above.
 
     The Debentures  mature on  March 1,  2005 and,  as a  result of  amendments
approved  by the holders of the Debentures in connection with the Exchange Offer
and Solicitation  and  set  forth  in the  Second  Supplemental  Indenture,  are
convertible  into common stock at a conversion price of $5.00 per share, subject
to adjustment under certain  conditions to prevent dilution  to the holders.  On
October  31, 1993, the aggregate principal amount of Debentures then outstanding
were convertible into  an aggregate  of 1,434,754 shares  of common  stock at  a
conversion  price of $27.45.  Interest is payable semiannually  on March 1st and
September 1st of each year. As of October 31, 1993, $39,384,000 principal amount
of  the  Debentures  remained  outstanding,  the  market  value  of  which   was
approximately  $26,584,000.  The  difference between  the  principal  amount and
carrying  value  on  the  Company's  consolidated  balance  sheet  of   $387,000
represents  unamortized discount  which is  being charged  to expense. Following
consummation of  the Exchange  Offer and  Solicitation approximately  $9,400,000
principal  amount of the Debentures  remain outstanding, convertible into shares
of common stock at  a conversion price of  $5.00, and approximately  $22,000,000
principal amount of Notes (as defined in Note 19) were outstanding.
 
     During  1993, 1992 and  1991, the Company  purchased $4,846,000, $5,031,000
and $23,166,000, respectively, principal amount of its Debentures, all of  which
have  been retired.  See Note  4 for a  discussion of  extraordinary gains which
resulted from these purchases.
 
     Other long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 
     The HGA Term  Loan and  HGA IRB  contain several  covenants, including  the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments. In addition, the holders of
the  HGA IRB have the right to  accelerate all outstanding principal at December
31, 1995 upon notification one year prior to that date.
 
     Substantially all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable  of
HGA collateralize its outstanding debt.
 
     Aggregate  annual maturities of other long-term debt, including the current
installments thereof, during the five years subsequent to October 31, 1993,  are
as follows:
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
NOTES PAYABLE AND WARRANTS
 
     In  connection with  agreements to  extend the due  date on  certain of the
Company's outstanding debt in  1988, the Company issued  warrants to a group  of
its  lenders. Warrants to purchase 658,950  shares of the Company's common stock
vested in December 1988  and currently have an  expiration date of December  29,
1995. All other warrants related to the agreements expired.
 
     The  terms of the warrants  provide that the exercise  price is to be reset
every six months to the lower of the  then current exercise price or 80% of  the
market  value as defined in  the warrant agreement. As  of January 12, 1994, the
most recent reset date, the exercise price was $.37 per share.
 
NOTE 12. STOCK OPTIONS, STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS, RESTRICTED STOCK, DEFERRED
         STOCK, STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS AND LONG TERM PERFORMANCE AWARDS
 
1988 Long-Term Incentive Plan
 
     The 1988 Long  Term Incentive Plan,  as amended (the  'LTIP') provides  the
Company  with opportunities  to attract, retain  and motivate  key employees and
consultants to the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and enables  the
Company  to provide incentives to key employees and consultants who are directly
linked to the profitability of the Company and to increasing stockholder value.
 
     The LTIP authorizes a committee consisting of three or more individuals not
eligible to  participate in  the LTIP  or,  if no  committee is  appointed,  the
Company's  Board of Directors, to grant  to eligible individuals during a period
of ten years from September 15, 1988, stock options, stock appreciation  rights,
restricted stock, deferred stock, stock purchase rights, phantom stock units and
long term performance awards for up to 6,376,710 shares of common stock, subject
to adjustment for future stock splits, stock dividends and similar events. As of
October  31, 1993, 4,008,943 shares remained available under the LTIP for future
grants. Since the approval of the LTIP by the Company's stockholders, no further
grants have been,  and none  will be, made  under predecessor  stock option  and
restricted  stock  plans.  However, grants  made  under the  prior  plans before
approval of the LTIP remain in effect.
 
     In February  1989,  Gary  Singer,  Steven  Singer,  Bruce  Sturman,  Howard
Sturman,  Wayne Sturman, Kenneth  Nilsson, Peter Riepenhausen  and Martin Singer
were granted  the right  to  purchase 25,000,  25,000, 25,000,  25,000,  25,000,
5,000,  5,000 and 25,000  shares of restricted  stock, respectively, pursuant to
the LTIP. At the same time, options  to purchase 313,170 shares were granted  to
each of Gary Singer, Steven Singer, Bruce Sturman, Howard Sturman, Wayne Sturman
and Martin Singer, and options to purchase 25,000 shares were granted to each of
Kenneth  Nilsson and Peter Riepenhausen. The  exercise price of such options was
$3.75 per share.  In March  1989, Arthur Bass,  the former  President and  Chief
Executive Officer of the Company at that time, was granted the right to purchase
50,000  shares of restricted stock pursuant to  the LTIP. The purchase price for
all such restricted stock awards was  $.10 per share. Restrictions were  removed
from 10% of all of the aforementioned restricted shares in 1989 according to the
restricted  share release formula and 90% of the grants of Howard Sturman, Wayne
Sturman, Kenneth Nilsson and  Peter Riepenhausen were forfeited  by each of  the
foregoing  upon the  termination of  his employment.  Martin Singer's restricted
shares as  to which  restrictions  had not  been  removed (22,500  shares)  were
relinquished  as described more  fully below. In  April 1990 and  April 1991, in
accordance with  the revised  vesting schedule  described below,  the first  two
Price Levels (i.e. $4.43
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
and  $5.22,  respectively)  were achieved  and,  accordingly,  restrictions were
removed from 40%  of the  restricted shares still  outstanding on  each of  such
dates from which restrictions had not been removed previously.
 
     In  March 1989,  Arthur Bass  also received  an option  to purchase 737,690
shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $3.75 per share. In
accordance with a renegotiation of his compensation, Mr. Bass waived that option
in return for 150,000  shares of restricted stock,  of which 31,317 shares  were
immediately  free of restrictions. Restrictions were removed from another 23,736
of those shares in April 1990 upon  satisfaction of the first Price Level.  When
Mr.  Bass resigned as  President and Chief  Executive Officer of  the Company in
September 1990, he forfeited his remaining restricted shares.
 
     Pursuant to  employment agreements  between the  Company and  each of  Gary
Singer,  Steven Singer and Bruce Sturman, which  became effective as of March 9,
1990, each of the  aforementioned individuals received a  grant of the right  to
purchase  313,170 shares of restricted stock (the 'March Restricted Shares'), of
which 31,317 shares were immediately  free of restrictions. Restrictions on  the
remainder  of the March Restricted  Shares were to be  removed in 20% increments
when the average closing  price of the  Company's common stock  on the New  York
Stock  Exchange (composite  quotations) over any  consecutive period  of 30 days
(the 'Average Price')  next equals  or exceeds  $4.43, $5.22,  $6.16, $7.27  and
$8.58  (individually, a 'Price Level') or, if not previously removed, at the end
of ten  years. Pursuant  to other  provisions in  the aforementioned  employment
agreements,  the formula  for removing  restrictions from  the restricted shares
granted in February and March 1989 was  amended to conform to that of the  March
Restricted  Shares  and each  of Gary  Singer, Steven  Singer and  Bruce Sturman
relinquished their 313,170 options.
 
     The issuance of the March Restricted Shares was effected pursuant to  Board
authorization  given in  connection with the  adoption of a  series of proposals
designed to reduce the  cash compensation of  senior management. Bruce  Sturman,
Gary  Singer and Steven Singer each  relinquished their rights to cash severance
in exchange  for  the  March Restricted  Shares.  That  compensation  adjustment
reflects  some of the terms contained  in a subsequently approved stipulation of
settlement (the 'Settlement Agreement') in a derivative suit entitled In Re  The
Cooper  Companies, Inc.  Shareholders' Litigation  in which  Bruce Sturman, Gary
Singer and Steven Singer and certain  former officers of the Company were  named
defendants.
 
     Also   pursuant   to  the   aforementioned   Board  authorization   and  in
contemplation of the  effectiveness of the  Settlement Agreement, 281,853  stock
options  of  Martin  Singer which  had  not  yet become  exercisable  and 22,500
restricted shares as  to which the  restrictions had not  yet been removed  were
relinquished  in  exchange  for the  right  to  purchase for  par  value 272,500
restricted shares as  to which  all restrictions were  to be  removed 18  months
following the date of issuance (the 'Special Restricted Shares').
 
     On  March  9,  1990, the  Executive  Committee  of the  Board  of Directors
authorized additional  grants totalling  457,500  restricted shares  to  various
other  employees and consultants of the Company, with restrictions to be removed
in 20% increments  or at the  end of ten  years as described  above. All of  the
aforementioned  grants  were  also  ratified and  approved  by  the Compensation
Committee and by the full  Board of Directors. When  the first and second  Price
Levels  were achieved  in April 1990  and April 1991,  restrictions were removed
from 40%  of  the  aforementioned  restricted shares,  other  than  the  Special
Restricted Shares of Martin Singer.
 
     In  July  1990,  the  Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board  of Directors
authorized several grants  covering an  aggregate of  383,000 restricted  shares
(the  'July Restricted Shares') to be  issued pursuant to the LTIP. Restrictions
on 20% of  the July  Restricted Shares  were removed  pursuant to  the terms  of
individual   restricted  share   agreements  upon  issuance   of  those  shares.
Restrictions on  the remaining  80% of  the July  Restricted Shares  were to  be
removed  in 25% increments when the Average  Price of the Company's common stock
next equals or exceeds for the first time $5.22, $6.16, $7.27 and $8.58, or,  if
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
not  previously removed, at the end of ten years. In April 1991, the $5.22 Price
Level was achieved and, accordingly, restrictions  were removed from 25% of  the
restricted shares.
 
     All  remaining restrictions on the aforementioned restricted shares, except
for restricted shares  of Steven Singer  as a  result of a  modification to  his
employment agreement, were removed in September 1993 as a result of a 'Change in
Control'  as defined by the LTIP in  connection with the issuance by the Company
of Series B Preferred Stock.
 
     In January  and  June  1991,  the  Administrative  Committee  of  the  LTIP
authorized  grants  to  employees and  consultants  of the  Company  covering an
aggregate of 101,500  restricted shares.  Those restricted shares  were to  have
restrictions removed in 20% increments at the various Price Levels or at the end
of ten years, as described above. As of October 31, 1992, restrictions on 13,450
of these shares were removed, and during 1993 the remainder of restrictions were
removed  as  a  result of  a  'Change in  Control'  as  defined by  the  LTIP in
connection with the  issuance by  the Company of  Series B  Preferred Stock.  In
October  1991, the Administrative  Committee of the  LTIP made a  grant to Bruce
Sturman of 100,000 restricted shares. Of those 100,000 shares, 46,000 shares had
restrictions removed upon  purchase and  the remaining  restricted shares  would
have  been released  in 33.33%  increments at Price  Levels of  $6.16, $7.27 and
$8.58. With the termination  of Bruce Sturman's employment  with the Company  on
July  27, 1992, the remaining restricted  shares granted in October 1991 (54,000
shares) and  his remaining  restricted  shares granted  in March  1990  (182,611
shares) were purchased by the Company for $.10 per share.
 
     In  October 1991, the  Administrative Committee of the  LTIP made grants of
25,000 phantom stock units  ('PSUs') to each of  Gary Singer, Steven Singer  and
Bruce  Sturman which were immediately vested to the individuals. Gary and Steven
Singer each  surrendered their  25,000  PSUs to  the  Company in  October  1991,
whereupon  they received  an amount  of cash  ($98,450 each)  equal to  the fair
market value of 25,000 shares of common  stock as specified by the grant.  Bruce
Sturman's  PSUs expired with  his termination of employment  with the Company on
July 27, 1992.
 
     In February  and  June  1992,  the Administrative  Committee  of  the  LTIP
authorized  grants to employees and consultants covering an aggregate of 223,250
restricted shares. These restricted shares were to have restrictions removed  in
20%  increments  at  the various  Price  Levels  (as described  above),  or have
restrictions removed based on performance criteria  or at the end of ten  years.
Of  these grants,  restrictions were  removed from a  total of  12,300 shares in
1992, and  the  remainder, not  otherwise  forfeited, had  restrictions  removed
during  1993 as  a result of  a 'Change  in Control' as  defined by  the LTIP in
connection with the issuance  by the Company of  Series B Preferred Stock.  (See
Note 8.)
 
     In  June 1993, the Administrative Committee  of the LTIP authorized a grant
to a  consultant  covering an  aggregate  of 125,000  restricted  shares.  These
restricted shares had all restrictions removed in 1993.
 
     As  of  August 1,  1993, there  were  options to  purchase an  aggregate of
1,102,500 shares of common stock granted to, and not subsequently forfeited  by,
optionholders  at  exercise prices  ranging from  $.69 to  $4.25 per  share. The
Company offered  each  employee who  held  options  granted under  the  LTIP  an
opportunity  to  exchange  those  options for  a  smaller  number  of substitute
options. Each new option is exercisable at $.56 per share. The number of  shares
each  employee was entitled to purchase pursuant  to such option was computed by
the Company's  independent nationally  recognized compensation  consulting  firm
using  an option exchange  ratio derived under  the Black-Scholes option pricing
model which takes  into account  the number of  shares which  could be  acquired
pursuant  to outstanding options, the exercise price of the options, the current
market of the Company's common stock and the option expiration date. Each person
who elected  to  participate received  an  option to  purchase  an  individually
calculated  percentage of the shares covered  by his outstanding option, ranging
from 21% to 70% of the shares such person was entitled to purchase. A percentage
of the new option, equal  to the percentage of  the outstanding option that  was
already  exercisable,  was immediately  exercisable.  The remainder  of  the new
option will vest and become exercisable in 25% tranches if and when the  trading
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
price  of the Company's common stock over  30 days averages, $1.00, $1.50, $2.00
and  $2.50  per  share,  respectively.  The  option  exchange  program  provided
optionholders  the opportunity to exchange options  with exercise prices well in
excess of the current market price of  the Company's common stock with a  lesser
number  of  options that  are exercisable  at  a price  that, while  still above
current market  price, is  lower  than the  exercise  price on  the  surrendered
options.  Under the terms of the option  exchange offer, each person who elected
to participate waived the vesting of options that otherwise would have  resulted
from  the Change in Control (as such term  is defined in the LTIP) that occurred
when stockholders approved the conversion rights of the Series B Preferred Stock
on September 14, 1993.
 
1990 Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan
 
     On April  26, 1990,  the  Company's Board  of  Directors adopted  the  1990
Non-Employee  Directors  Restricted Stock  Plan (the  'NEDRSP'), subject  to the
approval of such  plan by  the stockholders of  the Company.  Such approval  was
received  July 12, 1990, at  the Annual Meeting of  Stockholders. The NEDRSP, by
its terms, grants to each current and future director of the Company who is  not
also an employee or a consultant to the Company or any subsidiary of the Company
('Non-Employee  Director') the right  to purchase for $.10  per share, shares of
the Company's  common  stock,  subject  to  certain  restrictions.  One  hundred
thousand  shares of such common stock  were authorized and reserved for issuance
under the NEDRSP.  Shares which are  forfeited become available  for new  awards
under  such  plan.  On  July  12,  1990, upon  approval  of  the  NEDRSP  by the
stockholders of the  Company, three Non-Employee  Directors received grants  for
10,000 restricted shares each. Each grant provided that the restrictions will be
removed  from 20% of such shares upon  issuance. Restrictions shall lapse in 25%
increments for  the remaining  8,000 shares  each time  the Average  Price  next
equals  or exceeds  $5.22, $6.16,  $7.27 and  $8.58. Restricted  shares acquired
under any award made after July 12, 1990 shall be in awards of 5,000 shares  and
shall have restrictions lapse with respect to 20% of such shares, and the shares
subject  thereto shall become nonforfeitable and freely transferable, each time,
after the date of grant  of the award, the Average  Price equals or exceeds  for
the  first time each of  the following percentages of  increase over the Average
Price on the date of grant of the award: 18%, 36%, 54%, 72% and 90%.
 
     Transactions involving options  to purchase the  Company's common stock  in
connection with the LTIP and NEDRSP during each of the three years ended October
31, 1993 are summarized below:
 

 
     Options  issued and  outstanding have  option prices  ranging from  $.56 to
$2.625 per share.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
     The excess  of  market  value  over  $.10 per  share  of  LTIP  and  NEDRSP
restricted  shares  on  respective dates  of  grant is  recorded  as unamortized
restricted stock  award  compensation  and  shown as  a  separate  component  of
stockholders'  equity. Restricted  shares and  other stock  compensation charged
(credited) to selling, general and administrative expense for the twelve  months
ended  October 31, 1993,  1992 and 1991  was approximately $1,084,000, ($33,000)
and $1,734,000, respectively.
 
Prior Stock Option Plans
 
     Prior to the implementation of the  LTIP, the Company had two stock  option
plans,  the 1982 Stock Option Plan and  the 1985 Stock Option Plan (collectively
referred to  as  the 'Stock  Option  Plans'). With  the  adoption of  the  LTIP,
effective  September 15,  1988, all  authorized but  unallocated options  of the
Stock Option Plans (approximately 430,500 options) were transferred to the  LTIP
and  no  further grants  were allowed  from the  Stock Option  Plans. Previously
existing grants, however, remained in effect.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Options granted under the Stock Option  Plans could not be granted at  less
than  85%  of the  market  value on  the  date of  grant,  could not  have terms
exceeding ten  years  and  were  generally  exercisable  in  four  equal  annual
installments  commencing on the first anniversary of  the date of the grant. The
maximum number of shares authorized to  be granted under the Stock Option  Plans
was 2,150,000 shares.
 
     Transactions  in the Company's common stock  during each of the three years
ended October 31, 1993 in connection  with the Company's Stock Option Plans  are
summarized below:
 

 
NOTE 13. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
THE COMPANY'S RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN
 
     The  Company adopted The Cooper Companies, Inc. Retirement Income Plan (the
'Retirement Plan') in December 1983.  The Retirement Plan is a  non-contributory
pension  plan covering  substantially all  full-time United  States employees of
CVI, CVP  and  the Company's  Corporate  Headquarters. The  Company's  customary
contributions  are designed to fund  normal cost on a  current basis and to fund
over thirty  years the  estimated  prior service  cost of  benefit  improvements
(fifteen  years for  annual gains  and losses).  The unit  credit actuarial cost
method is used to determine the annual cost. The Company pays the entire cost of
the Retirement  Plan and  funds  such costs  as  they accrue.  Retirement  costs
applicable  to continuing  and discontinued  operations of  the Company  for the
years ended  October  31,  1993,  1992 and  1991  were  approximately  $181,000,
$265,000  and  $351,000,  respectively.  Virtually  all  of  the  assets  of the
Retirement Plan  are comprised  of  participations in  equity and  fixed  income
funds.
 
     Based  on the latest actuarial  information available, the following tables
set forth the net periodic pension  costs, funded status and amounts  recognized
in the Company's consolidated financial statements for the Retirement Plan:
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
                           NET PERIODIC PENSION COST
 

 
               SCHEDULE RECONCILING THE FUNDED STATUS OF THE PLAN
              WITH PROJECTED AMOUNTS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
                 ACTUARIAL PRESENT VALUE OF BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
 

 
THE COMPANY'S 401(K) SAVINGS PLAN
 
     The  Company adopted its Stock Purchase  Savings Plan (the 'Stock Plan') on
December 1, 1983. Effective July 1, 1990,  the Company froze the Stock Plan  and
implemented  The Cooper Companies, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan (the '401(k) Plan'),
a revision of  the Stock Plan.  Both plans provide  for a deferred  compensation
arrangement  as described  in section 401(k)  of the Internal  Revenue Code. The
401(k) Plan  is  a contributory  plan  and  is available  to  substantially  all
full-time  United  States  employees  of  the  Company.  United  States resident
employees of the Company who  participate in the 401(k)  Plan may elect to  have
from  2% to 10% of their  pre-tax salary or wages (but  not more than $8,994 for
the calendar year ended December 31, 1993) deferred and contributed to the trust
established under the 401(k) Plan. The Company's contributions to the Stock Plan
or the 401(k) Plan on account of the
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Company's participating  employees, net  of  forfeiture credits,  were  $90,000,
$72,000  and  $54,000 for  the  years ended  October  31, 1993,  1992  and 1991,
respectively.
 
THE COMPANY'S BONUS PLAN
 
     The Company adopted its Incentive Payment Plan (the 'IPP') available to key
executives and certain  other personnel on  November 1, 1982  pursuant to  which
such  persons may  in certain  years receive cash  bonuses based  on Company and
subsidiary performance. Total payments earned under the IPP for the years  ended
October  31,  1993, 1992  and 1991,  were  approximately $439,000,  $456,000 and
$125,000, respectively.  The Board  of Directors  of the  Company also  approved
discretionary  bonuses outside of the  IPP for the years  ended October 31, 1993
and October 31, 1992 of approximately $124,000 and $343,000, respectively.
 
THE COMPANY'S TURN-AROUND INCENTIVE PLAN
 
     The Company adopted its Turn-Around Incentive  Plan (the 'TIP') on May  18,
1993  pursuant to  which certain  designated employees  are eligible  to receive
awards, payable over time in a  combination of cash and restricted stock  issued
if the Company achieves a global resolution acceptable to the Board of Directors
of  all breast implant  matters and if  the price of  the Company's common stock
reaches certain designated price  levels. No payments have  been made under  the
TIP to date.
 
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
 
     In December 1990, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
No.  106, Employer's Accounting for  Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
('FAS 106'),  which  required  adoption  of  a  new  method  of  accounting  for
postretirement   benefits.  FAS  106  establishes  standards  for  providing  an
obligation for future  postretirement benefits  due employees  over the  service
period  of such employees. FAS 106 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1992. The Company will adopt  FAS 106 as required and believes  the
adoption will have no material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
 
NOTE 14. LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
 
     Total  minimum  annual  rental  obligations  under  noncancelable operating
leases (substantially all real property and  equipment) in force at October  31,
1993 are payable in subsequent years as follows:
 

 
     Aggregate  rental expense  for both cancelable  and noncancelable contracts
amounted to  $2,105,000,  $2,828,000 and  $2,869,000  in 1993,  1992  and  1991,
respectively.
 
     Commitments under capitalized leases are not significant.
 
     Under  the terms of a supply agreement  most recently modified in 1993, the
Company agreed to purchase by December  31, 1997, certain contact lenses from  a
British manufacturer with an aggregate cost of approximately `L'4,063,000. As of
December 31, 1993, there remained a commitment of `L'3,835,116.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The  $9,000,000 liability recorded for payments to be made to MEC under the
MEC Agreement described in Notes 3, 18 and 19 will become due as follows:
 

 
     Additional payments  to be  made to  MEC beginning  December 31,  1999  are
contingent  upon the  Company's earning net  income before taxes  in each fiscal
year, and are, therefore,  not recorded in  the Company's financial  statements.
Such  payments are  limited to the  smaller of  50% of the  Company's net income
before taxes in each such  fiscal year on a  noncumulative basis or the  amounts
shown below:
 

 
NOTE 15. RELATIONSHIPS   AND  TRANSACTIONS  BETWEEN   THE  COMPANY  CLS,  COOPER
         DEVELOPMENT  COMPANY  ('CDC')   AND  THE   COOPER  LABORATORIES,   INC.
         STOCKHOLDERS' LIQUIDATING TRUST (THE 'TRUST')
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
 
     Pursuant  to separate agreements  between the Company and  CDC, CLS and the
Trust, which was  formed in  connection with  the liquidation  of the  Company's
former   parent,  Cooper  Laboratories,  Inc.,   the  Company  provided  certain
administrative services to CDC, CLS and the Trust, including the services of the
Company's treasury, legal, tax, data processing, corporate development, investor
relations and accounting staff.  Expenses are charged on  the basis of  specific
utilization  or allocated based  on personnel, space, percent  of assets used or
other  appropriate  bases.   The  agreements  relating   to  the  provision   of
administrative  services to  CDC and CLS  terminated on September  17, 1988. The
Company has not performed any services for CDC and CLS since September 17, 1988,
other than  historic tax  services  pursuant to  the Trust.  Combined  corporate
administrative  expenses charged  to the Trust  by the Company  were $213,000 in
1992 and  $560,000 in  1991. On  July 9,  1992, the  Trust filed  a petition  in
Bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code; and, effective July 31, 1992,
the  Company ceased providing services to the  Trust. The Company has asserted a
claim  for  approximately  $740,000  in  the  Trust's  bankruptcy   proceedings,
primarily representing unpaid administrative service fees and expenses and legal
fees advanced by the Company on behalf of the Trust.
 
AGREEMENTS WITH CLS
 
     On  October  21,  1988,  the  Company and  CLS  entered  into  a settlement
agreement (the '1988 CLS Settlement Agreement') pursuant to which certain claims
between the two  corporations were  settled. Among  other things,  the 1988  CLS
Settlement  Agreement provided that (a) the discovery period under the directors
and officers liability insurance policy issued by the Company covering directors
and officers of CLS  would be extended  pursuant to an  option contained in  the
insurance policy (see 'Liability Insurance', below), (b) CLS would indemnify the
Company  for certain claims made  by a former consultant  to the Company (c) CLS
would have no further liability to  the Company with respect to the  termination
of  the contract pursuant to which the Company had agreed to purchase ophthalmic
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
laser systems from CLS, (d) CLS would pay the Company $2,750,000 and (e) CLS, in
its capacity as a holder of the  SERPS, would consent to the Company's  proposed
sales  of its CTI business and its  Cooper Surgical business and to the proposed
deletion of the mandatory  redemption provision of  the Senior Preferred  Stock.
The  1988 CLS  Settlement Agreement did  not allocate  the $2,750,000 settlement
amount among the  various items contained  therein. The $2,750,000  was paid  in
full by CLS in December 1988.
 
     On  November 27,  1989, the Company  and CLS entered  into another separate
settlement agreement (the '1989 CLS Settlement Agreement'). Pursuant to the 1989
CLS Settlement Agreement, among  other things, the Company  and CLS (i)  entered
into  a mutual standstill arrangement precluding  each party from acquiring each
other's common stock and precluding CLS from acquiring additional shares of  the
SERPS,  (ii) dismissed most of the outstanding litigations among the Company and
CLS, (iii) reaffirmed the Company's obligation  to register the SERPS, and  (iv)
obtained  the consent of  CLS, as a  holder of outstanding  SERPS, to any future
sale of all  or any portion  of the Company's  remaining contact lens  business,
subject  to the  receipt of  a fairness  opinion and  following a  90-day period
(since expired) in which  the Company would negotiate  the sale of the  business
exclusively with CLS and CDC.
 
     On  June 12,  1992, the Company  consummated a transaction  with CLS, which
eliminated approximately 80% of the SERPS (the '1992 CLS Transaction'). Pursuant
to an Exchange Agreement between the Company  and CLS dated as of June 12,  1992
(the '1992 Exchange Agreement'), the Company acquired from CLS 488,004 shares of
SERPS  owned by  CLS, and  all of CLS's  right to  receive, by  way of dividends
pursuant to  the terms  of SERPS,  an additional  11,996 shares  of SERPS  (such
11,996 shares together with the 488,004 shares being referred to collectively as
the  'Exchanged SERPS')  in exchange  for 4,850,000  newly issued  shares of the
Company common stock (the 'Company Shares'). In addition, the Company  purchased
200,000  unregistered  shares of  CLS  common stock  (the  'CLS Shares'),  for a
purchase price of $1,500,000 in  cash (carried at October  31, 1992, at cost  in
'Other  assets' of the Company's consolidated  balance sheet) and entered into a
settlement agreement  with  CLS  dated  as  of June  12,  1992  (the  '1992  CLS
Settlement  Agreement'), with  respect to certain  litigation and administrative
proceedings in which  the Company and  CLS were involved.  Pursuant to the  1992
Settlement  Agreement, CLS, among  other things, released  its claim against the
Company for unliquidated damages arising from the Company's failure to  register
the SERPS, in return for the Company's payment of $500,000, the reimbursement of
certain  legal fees and  expenses in the  amount of $650,000  incurred by CLS in
connection with  certain  litigation  and administrative  proceedings,  and  the
payment  of  $709,000  owed  by  the Company  to  CLS  pursuant  to  tax sharing
agreements between them.  The Company  also agreed to  reimburse CLS  for up  to
$250,000 of legal and other fees and expenses incurred by CLS in connection with
the  1992 CLS Transaction and,  if requested by CLS,  to use its reasonable best
efforts to cause the election to the Company's Board of Directors of one or  two
designees  of CLS, reasonably acceptable to the Company (the number of designees
depending, respectively, on whether CLS owns  more than 1,000,000 but less  than
2,400,000 shares, or more than 2,400,000 shares of the Company's common stock).
 
     As  part  of  the 1992  CLS  Transaction, pursuant  to  Registration Rights
Agreements, dated as of  June 12, 1992,  each between the  Company and CLS  (the
'Registration  Rights Agreements'), the  Company and CLS each  agreed to use its
reasonable best efforts to  register, respectively, the  Company Shares and  the
CLS  Shares. On  July 27, 1992,  the Company  filed with the  SEC a registration
statement for the Company Shares which became effective November 20, 1992. If  a
registration  statement  covering  the  Company  Shares  had  not  been declared
effective within 180 days following June 12, 1992, the Company had agreed to pay
$1,250,000 in cash (an amount equal  to the value of 'pay-in-kind' dividends  it
would have accrued on the Exchanged SERPS but for the exchange). CLS agreed that
if CLS had not registered the CLS Shares within 17 months from the closing date,
the  Company could require  CLS to repurchase  the CLS Shares,  at the Company's
cost of  $1,500,000,  by either,  at  CLS's option,  (a)  payment of  cash,  (b)
delivery  of shares of Senior  Preferred Stock, valued at  $39 per share, or (c)
delivery of
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
shares of the Company's common stock, valued at $3 per share The CLS Shares were
delivered to  CLS as  part of  1993  CLS Settlement  Agreement (as  defined  and
described below).
 
     On  June 14,  1993, the  Company acquired  from CLS,  all of  the remaining
outstanding SERPS of the Company, having an aggregate liquidation preference  of
$16,060,000, together with all rights to any dividends or distributions thereon,
in  exchange  for  shares  of  Series  B  Preferred  Stock  having  an aggregate
liquidation preference of  $3,450,000 and  a par value  of $.10  per share  (the
'1993  CLS  Exchange  Agreement').  Such  shares, and  any  shares  of  Series B
Preferred Stock issued as  dividends, are convertible into  one share of  common
stock  of  the Company  for  each $1.00  of  liquidation preference,  subject to
customary antidilution adjustments.
 
     The Company also has the right  to compel conversion of Series B  Preferred
Stock  at any time after  the market price of the  common stock on its principal
trading market averages  at least $1.375  for 90 consecutive  calendar days  and
closes  at not less than $1.375 on at  least 80% of the trading days during such
period. CLS currently owns  4,850,000 shares of  Common Stock, or  approximately
16.2% of the outstanding common stock.
 
     Dividends  will accrue on the Series  B Preferred Stock commencing June 14,
1994, and will be payable  quarterly in cash at the  rate of 9% (of  liquidation
preference)  per annum  or, if  the Company is  restricted by  applicable law or
certain debt  agreements from  paying cash  dividends, in  additional shares  of
Series  B Preferred  Stock at  the rate of  12% (of  liquidation preference) per
annum. The Series B Preferred Stock is  redeemable, in whole or in part, at  the
option  of the  Company, at  any time at  a redemption  price equal  to its then
applicable liquidation preference, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.
 
     The Company  and CLS  also entered  into a  Registration Rights  Agreement,
dated  June 14, 1993, providing for the registration under the Securities Act of
the shares of common stock  issued upon such conversion of  any of the Series  B
Preferred  Stock and any of the 4,850,000 shares of common stock currently owned
by CLS which have not been sold prior thereto.
 
     The Board of Directors amended the Rights Agreement dated as of October 29,
1987, between  the Company  and The  First National  Bank of  Boston, as  Rights
Agent,  so that  CLS and  its affiliates and  associates would  not be Acquiring
Persons thereunder as a result of CLS's beneficial ownership of more than 20% of
the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of its ownership of Series
B Preferred Stock or Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof. See Note 5.
 
     CLS obtained  the  4,850,000  shares  of Common  Stock  it  currently  owns
pursuant  to the 1992 CLS Exchange Agreement described above. In Amendment No. 1
to its Schedule 13D, filed with the SEC on November 12, 1992, CLS disclosed that
'in light  of the  recent public  disclosures relating  to the  Company and  the
recent  significant decline in the public trading price of the Common Stock, CLS
is presently considering various courses of action which it may determine to  be
necessary  or appropriate  in order  to maintain  and restore  the value  of the
Common Stock. Included among the actions  which CLS is considering pursuing  are
the  initiation  of  litigation  against  the  Company  and  the  replacement of
management and at least a majority of  the members of the Board of Directors  of
the Company.'
 
     On  June 14, 1993, in  order to resolve all  disputes with CLS, the Company
and  CLS  entered  into  a  Settlement  Agreement  (the  '1993  CLS   Settlement
Agreement'), pursuant to which CLS delivered a general release of claims against
the   Company,  subject   to  exceptions  for   specified  on-going  contractual
obligations, and agreed to  certain restrictions on its  voting and transfer  of
securities  of the Company, in exchange  for the Company's payment of $4,000,000
in cash and  delivery of  200,000 shares  of common stock  of CLS  owned by  the
Company  and  a  general  release  of claims  against  CLS,  subject  to similar
exceptions. The  cash paid  and fair  value  of CLS  shares returned  have  been
charged  to the Company's statement of operations as settlement of disputes. See
Note 7.
 
     Pursuant to  the  1993 CLS  Settlement  Agreement, the  Company  agreed  to
nominate,  and CLS  agreed to  vote all  of its  shares of  common stock  of the
Company in  favor of  the  election of,  a Board  of  Directors of  the  Company
consisting  of eight  members, up to  three of  whom will, at  CLS's request, be
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
designated by CLS (such designees to be officers or more than 5% stockholders of
CLS as of June 14, 1993 or  otherwise be reasonably acceptable to the  Company).
The  number of  CLS designees  will decline as  CLS's ownership  of common stock
(including shares of common  stock into which the  shares of Series B  Preferred
Stock  owned by CLS are  or may become convertible)  declines. A majority of the
Board members  (other  than CLS  designees)  will  be individuals  who  are  not
officers  or  employees of  the  Company. Pursuant  to  the 1993  CLS Settlement
Agreement, CLS  designated,  and on  August  10,  1993 the  Board  of  Directors
elected,  one person to serve as a director of the Company until the 1993 Annual
Meeting. CLS also designated that individual along with two other people as  its
three  designees to the eight-member Board of  Directors that was elected at the
1993 Annual Meeting.
 
     CLS also  agreed  in the  1993  Settlement  Agreement not  to  acquire  any
additional  securities of the Company (except shares of Series B Preferred Stock
issued as dividends or common stock issued upon conversion, if any, of Series  B
Preferred Stock) and to certain limitations on its transfer of securities of the
Company. In addition, CLS agreed, among other things, not to seek control of the
Company  or the  Board or  otherwise take  any action  contrary to  the 1993 CLS
Settlement Agreement. CLS is free, however, to vote all voting securities  owned
by it as it deems appropriate on any matter before the Company's stockholders.
 
     The  agreements with  respect to Board  representation and  voting, and the
restrictions on CLS's  acquisition and  transfer of securities  of the  Company,
will  terminate on June 14, 1995, or  earlier if CLS beneficially owns less than
1,000,000 shares of common stock (including as owned any common stock into which
shares of Series B Preferred Stock owned by CLS are convertible). The agreements
will be extended if the market price of the common stock increases to  specified
levels  prior to each of June 12, 1995, and June 12, 1996, or the Company agrees
to nominate  one  CLS  designee,  who  is  independent  of  CLS  and  reasonably
acceptable  to the Company, in addition to that number of designees to which CLS
is then  entitled on  each such  date,  which could  result in  such  agreements
continuing  through October 31, 1996, and CLS having up to five designees on the
Board (which would then have a total of ten members, or eleven members if a  new
chairman  or chief  executive officer is  then serving on  the Board). Following
termination of such agreements and through  June 12, 2002, CLS will continue  to
have  the contractual  right that  it had  pursuant to  the 1992  CLS Settlement
Agreement to designate two directors of the Company, so long as CLS continues to
own at least 2,400,000 shares  of common stock, or one  director, so long as  it
continues to own at least 1,000,000 shares of common stock.
 
LIABILITY INSURANCE
 
     Prior  to fiscal 1988, a  subsidiary of the Company  that is engaged in the
insurance underwriting business issued a directors and officers liability policy
to CLS and a former affiliate of the Company covering its directors and officers
for certain  liabilities.  Each  policy  had a  maximum  aggregate  coverage  of
$5,000,000. On September 2, 1988, the Company terminated the insurance policies.
As  described above, the  discovery periods for claims  under such policies were
extended pursuant  to  the terms  of  such  policies. The  Company  had  pledged
$7,750,000  of cash  (included in  restricted cash  at October  31, 1991  in the
Company's  consolidated   balance  sheet)   to  collateralize   the   contingent
obligation.
 
     On  April  30, 1993,  the  civil action  entitled  Guenther v.  Cooper Life
Sciences, Inc. et.  al. filed  in 1988 was  settled. With  such settlement,  the
Company  was released from  any future potential  director and officer liability
relating to  coverage  under the  aforementioned  policies and,  therefore,  the
restricted  cash which collateralized contingent liabilities was released. For a
further discussion of the action see Note 7 'Settlement of Disputes.'
 
OTHER
 
     CLS was formerly an 89.5% owned subsidiary of the Company's former  parent,
Cooper Laboratories, Inc. ('Labs').
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     CLS  filed Amendment No. 2 to its Schedule 13D stating that it owns and has
sole voting  and dispositive  power  with respect  to  4,850,000 shares  of  the
Company's  common stock as of June 12, 1992.  On June 14, 1993, CLS acquired 345
shares of Series B Preferred Stock  which are convertible into 3,450,000  shares
of  common stock. In addition, the Company had been advised that, as of December
15, 1993,  Moses  Marx,  the  beneficial  owner  of  approximately  22%  of  the
outstanding  stock of CLS, beneficially owned 1,126,000 shares (or approximately
3.7%)  of  the  Company's  common  stock  and  $4,500,000  principal  amount  of
Debentures,  or approximately 11.4%  of the aggregate  principal amount thereof,
and that United Equities Company ('United Equities'), a brokerage firm owned  by
Mr.  Marx,  held  approximately  $3,706,000 principal  amount  of  Debentures or
approximately 9.4% of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures  outstanding,
in  its trading  account. Mr.  Marx and  United Equities  tendered all  of their
Debentures in the  Exchange Offer and  Solicitation (although not  all of  their
Debentures  were accepted due to proration), and the Company is not aware of Mr.
Marx's or United Equities' current holdings of the Company's securities.
 
NOTE 16. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's operations  are attributable to  four business segments:  HGA
(including  PSG Management) which provides  psychiatric healthcare services, and
CooperVision, CooperVision  Pharmaceuticals  and CooperSurgical  which  develop,
manufacture and market healthcare products.
 
     Total  revenues by business segment represent  service and sales revenue as
reported in the Company's statement of consolidated operations. Total net  sales
revenue  by geographic area include intercompany sales which are priced at terms
that allow for a  reasonable profit for the  seller. Operating income (loss)  is
total  revenue less  cost of products  sold, research  and development expenses,
selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses,  costs  of  restructuring  and
amortization  of  intangible  assets. Corporate  operating  loss  is principally
corporate headquarters expense. Investment income, net, settlement of  disputes,
debt  restructuring costs,  gain on sales  of assets and  businesses, net, other
income (expense), net,  and interest  expense were not  allocated to  individual
businesses and geographic segments.
 
     Identifiable   assets  are  those  assets  used  in  continuing  operations
(exclusive of cash  and cash equivalents)  or which are  allocated thereto  when
used  jointly.  Corporate  assets  are principally  cash  and  cash equivalents,
restricted cash and temporary investments.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Information by business segment for each of  the years in the three year  period
ended October 31, 1993 follows:
 

 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Results from May 29, 1992.
 
(2) Includes  $3,149,000 for  two real  estate investments  made by  Cooper Real
    Estate Group.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     Information by geographic  area for  each of the  years in  the three  year
period ended October 31, 1993 follows:
 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 17. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 

 
- ------------
 
*  The  sum of income (loss) per common share for the four quarters is different
   from the  full  year net  income  (loss) per  common  share as  a  result  of
   computing  the quarterly and full year amounts on the weighted average number
   of common shares outstanding in the respective periods.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
- ------------
 
At December 31, 1993 and 1992 there were 4,550 and 4,902 common stockholders  of
record, respectively.
 
ITEM 18. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The  Company is a  defendant in a  number of legal  actions relating to its
past or present businesses in which plaintiffs are seeking damages.
 
     On November  10,  1992, the  Company  was  charged in  an  indictment  (the
'Indictment'),  filed  in  the United  States  District Court  for  the Southern
District of  New  York, with  violating  federal  criminal laws  relating  to  a
'trading  scheme' by Gary  A. Singer, a  former Co-Chairman of  the Company (who
went on a leave of absence on May 28, 1992, begun at the Company's request,  and
who  subsequently resigned on January 20, 1994), and others, including G. Albert
Griggs, Jr., a former analyst with The Keystone Group, Inc., and John D. Collins
II, to 'frontrun'  high yield bond  purchases by the  Keystone Custodian  Funds,
Inc.,  a group  of mutual  funds. The  Company was  named as  a defendant  in 10
counts. Gary Singer was named as a defendant in 24 counts, including  violations
of  the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the mail and wire
fraud statutes  (including defrauding  the  Company by  virtue of  the  'trading
scheme',  by, among other things, transferring profits on trades of DR Holdings,
Inc. 15.5% bonds (the 'DR  Holdings Bonds') from the  Company to members of  his
family  during  fiscal  1991),  money  laundering,  conspiracy,  and  aiding and
abetting violations of  the Investment  Advisers Act  of 1940,  as amended  (the
'Investment Advisers Act'), by an investment advisor.
 
     On  January 13, 1994,  the Company was  found guilty on  six counts of mail
fraud and one count of wire fraud based upon Mr. Singer's conduct, but acquitted
of charges of conspiracy  and aiding and abetting  violations of the  Investment
Advisers   Act.  Mr.   Singer  was  found   guilty  on  21   counts.  One  count
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
against Mr. Singer and the Company was dismissed at trial and two counts against
Mr. Singer relating to forfeiture penalties were resolved by stipulation between
the government and Mr. Singer. Sentencing  is scheduled for March 25, 1994.  The
maximum  penalty which  could be imposed  on the  Company is the  greater of (i)
$500,000 per count, (ii) twice the gross gain derived from the offense or  (iii)
twice  the gross loss suffered by the victim  of the offense, and a $200 special
assessment. In addition to  the penalties described in  (i), (ii) or (iii),  the
Court  could order the  Company to make restitution.  The Company is considering
its options, including filing an appeal of its conviction. Mr. Singer's attorney
has advised  the Company  that  Mr. Singer  intends  to appeal  his  conviction.
Although  the Company may be obligated under its Certificate of Incorporation to
advance the costs of such  appeal, the Company and  Mr. Singer have agreed  that
Mr.  Singer will not request such advances,  but that he will reserve his rights
to indemnification in the event of a successful appeal.
 
     Also on November 10,  1992, the SEC filed  a civil Complaint for  Permanent
Injunction and Other Equitable Relief (the 'SEC Complaint') in the United States
District  Court for the Southern District of  New York against the Company, Gary
A. Singer, Steven G.  Singer (the Company's Executive  Vice President and  Chief
Operating Officer and Gary Singer's brother), and, as relief defendants, certain
persons  related to Gary  and Steven Singer  and certain entities  in which they
and/or those related persons  have an interest. The  SEC Complaint alleges  that
the  Company  and Gary  and  Steven Singer  violated  various provisions  of the
Securities Exchange Act  of 1934,  as amended (the  'Securities Exchange  Act'),
including  certain of its antifraud and periodic reporting provisions, and aided
and abetted  violations  of  the  Investment Company  Act,  and  the  Investment
Advisors  Act  ,  in  connection  with the  'trading  scheme'  described  in the
preceding paragraphs. The  SEC Complaint  further alleges,  among other  things,
federal  securities  law  violations  (i)  by the  Company  and  Gary  Singer in
connection with an alleged  manipulation of the trading  price of the  Company's
10 5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset Debentures due 2005 (the 'Debentures') to
avoid an interest rate reset allegedly required on June 15, 1991 under the terms
of  the Indenture  governing the  Debentures, (ii)  by Gary  Singer in allegedly
transferring profits on trades  of high yield bonds  (including those trades  in
the DR Holdings Bonds which were the subject of certain counts of the Indictment
of  which Mr. Singer was found guilty) from the Company to members of his family
and failing  to disclose  such transactions  to  the Company  and (iii)  by  the
Company  in failing to disclose publicly on  a timely basis such transactions by
Gary Singer. The SEC Complaint asks that the Company and Gary and Steven  Singer
be  enjoined permanently  from violating  the antifraud,  periodic reporting and
other provisions of the federal securities laws, that they disgorge the  amounts
of  the alleged profits received by them  pursuant to the alleged frauds (stated
in the  SEC's Litigation  Release No.  13432 announcing  the filing  of the  SEC
Complaint  as  being $1,296,406,  $2,323,180  and $174,705,  respectively), plus
interest, and that they each pay  appropriate civil monetary penalties. The  SEC
Complaint  also seeks orders permanently prohibiting Gary and Steven Singer from
serving as officers  or directors of  any public company  and disgorgement  from
certain  Singer family members and entities  of amounts representing the alleged
profits received by such defendants pursuant to the alleged frauds. In  February
1993, the court granted a motion staying all proceedings in connection with this
matter  pending completion of the criminal case.  On January 24, 1994, the Court
lifted the stay and directed the defendants to file answers to the SEC Complaint
within 30 days.  The Company  is currently involved  in settlement  negotiations
with the SEC. At this time, there can be no assurance these negotiations will be
successfully concluded.
 
     The  imposition of monetary penalties  upon the Company as  a result of the
criminal convictions  or in  connection  with the  matters  alleged in  the  SEC
Complaint,  as well  as the  incurrence of  any additional  defense costs, could
exacerbate, possibly materially, the Company's  liquidity problems and its  need
to raise funds.
 
     Copies of the Indictment and the SEC Complaint were attached as exhibits to
the  Company's Current Report on  Form 8-K, dated November  16, 1992, filed with
the SEC.
 
     The Company is  named as a  nominal defendant in  a shareholder  derivative
action  entitled Harry  Lewis and  Gary Goldberg  v. Gary  A. Singer,  Steven G.
Singer, Arthur C. Bass, Joseph C. Feghali, Warren
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
J. Keegan, Robert S. Holcombe  and Robert S. Weiss, which  was filed on May  27,
1992  in the Court of Chancery, State of Delaware, New Castle County. On May 29,
1992,  another  plaintiff,  Alfred  Schecter,  separately  filed  a   derivative
complaint in Delaware Chancery Court that was essentially identical to the Lewis
and  Goldberg complaint. Lewis  and Goldberg later  amended their complaint, and
the Delaware Chancery Court thereafter  consolidated the Lewis and Goldberg  and
Schecter  actions as In  re The Cooper  Companies, Inc. Litigation, Consolidated
C.A. 12584,  and  designated  Lewis  and Goldberg's  amended  complaint  as  the
operative  complaint  (the  'First  Amended  Derivative  Complaint').  The First
Amended Derivative Complaint alleges that  certain directors of the Company  and
Gary  A. Singer, as Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors, caused or allowed the
Company to  be a  party to  the 'trading  scheme' that  was the  subject of  the
Indictment.  The  First  Amended  Derivative  Complaint  also  alleges  that the
defendants violated  their fiduciary  duties to  the Company  by not  vigorously
investigating  the allegations of securities fraud. The First Amended Derivative
Complaint requests that the Court order the defendants (other than the  Company)
to  pay damages  and expenses to  the Company  and certain of  the defendants to
disgorge their profits to the Company. On October 16, 1992, the defendants moved
to dismiss the First Amended Derivative Complaint on grounds that such Complaint
fails to comply with Delaware Chancery Court Rule 23.1 and that Count III of the
First Amended Derivative Complaint fails to state a claim. The Company has  been
advised  by the individual directors named  as defendants that they believe they
have meritorious  defenses  to this  lawsuit  and intend  vigorously  to  defend
against the allegations in the First Amended Derivative complaint.
 
     The  Company was  named as a  nominal defendant in  a purported shareholder
derivative action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. Gary A. Singer, Steven G. Singer,
Brad C. Singer, Martin Singer,  John D. Collins II,  Back Bay Capital, Inc.,  G.
Albert  Griggs, Jr.,  John and  Jane Does 1-10  and The  Cooper Companies, Inc.,
which was filed on May 26, 1992 in  the Supreme Court of the State of New  York,
County  of  New York.  The plaintiff,  Bruce  D. Sturman,  a former  officer and
director of the  Company, alleged  that Gary A.  Singer, as  Co-Chairman of  the
Board  of Directors, and various members of the Singer family caused the Company
to make improper payments to alleged third-party co-conspirators, Messrs. Griggs
and Collins,  as part  of  the 'trading  scheme' that  was  the subject  of  the
Indictment.  The complaint requested that the  Court order the defendants (other
than the  Company)  to  pay  damages and  expenses  to  the  Company,  including
reimbursement of payments made by the Company to Messrs. Collins and Griggs, and
to  disgorge their profits to  the Company. Pursuant to  its decision and order,
filed August 17,  1993, the  Court dismissed this  action under  New York  Civil
Practice  Rule 327(a). On  September 22, 1993,  the plaintiff filed  a Notice of
Appeal.
 
     The Company was named in an action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and Does 1-100, Inclusive, first brought on July 24, 1992 in the
Superior  Court of  the State  of California,  Los Angeles,  County. Mr. Sturman
alleged that his  suspension from his  position as Co-Chairman  of the Board  of
Directors  constituted,  among  other  things,  an  anticipatory  breach  of his
employment agreement.  On  May 14,  1993,  Mr.  Sturman filed  a  First  Amended
Complaint  in the Superior Court of the  State of California, County of Alameda,
Eastern  Division,  the  jurisdiction  to  which  the  original  case  had  been
transferred.  In  the  Amended  Complaint, Mr.  Sturman  alleged  that  by first
suspending and  then  terminating him  from  his position  as  Co-Chairman,  the
Company breached his employment agreement, violated provisions of the California
Labor  Code, wrongfully terminated  him in violation  of public policy, breached
its implied covenant of  good faith and fair  dealing, defamed him, invaded  his
privacy  and  intentionally  inflicted  emotional  distress,  and  was otherwise
fraudulent, deceitful  and negligent.  The Amended  Complaint seeks  declaratory
relief,  damages in  the amount  of $5,000,  treble and  punitive damages  in an
unspecified amount, and general, special and consequential damages in the amount
of at least $5,000,000. In March 1993, the Court ordered a stay of all discovery
in this  action until  further order  of the  Court and  thereafter scheduled  a
conference  for January  14, 1994 to  review the  status of the  stay. The Court
subsequently modified the  stay to permit  the taking of  the deposition of  one
witness  who will not be  available to testify at  trial. On September 24, 1993,
Mr. Sturman filed a  Second Amended Complaint, setting  forth the same  material
allegations and seeking the same relief
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
and damages as set forth in the First Amended Complaint. On January 7, 1994, the
Company  filed an Answer, generally denying all of the allegations in the Second
Amended Complaint, and also filed a Cross-Complaint against Mr. Sturman. In  the
Cross-Complaint,  the Company alleges  that Mr. Sturman's  conduct constituted a
breach of his employment agreement with the  Company as well as a breach of  his
fiduciary  duty to  the Company, that  Mr. Sturman misrepresented  and failed to
disclose certain material facts to the  Company and converted certain assets  of
the  Company  to  his  personal  use  and  benefit.  The  Cross-Complaint  seeks
compensatory and punitive damages in an unspecified amount. On January 14, 1994,
the Court continued  in place the  stay on  all discovery and  scheduled a  case
management  conference for February 10,  1994 to review the  status of the stay.
Based  on  management's  current  knowledge  of  the  facts  and   circumstances
surrounding  Mr.  Sturman's  termination,  the  Company  believes  that  it  has
meritorious defenses to this  lawsuit and intends  to defend vigorously  against
the allegations in the Second Amended Complaint.
 
     In  two  virtually identical  actions, Frank  H. Cobb,  Inc. v.  The Cooper
Companies, Inc., et al., and  Arthur J. Korf v.  The Cooper Companies, Inc.,  et
al.,  class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court for
the Southern  District of  New York  in  August 1989,  against the  Company  and
certain individuals who served as officers and/or directors of the Company after
June  1987.  In their  Fourth  Amended Complaint  filed  in September  1992, the
plaintiffs allege that they are bringing the actions on their own behalf and  as
class  actions on behalf of  a class consisting of  all persons who purchased or
otherwise acquired shares of  the Company's common stock  during the period  May
26,  1988 through February 13, 1989. The amended complaints seek an undetermined
amount of compensatory damages jointly and severally against all defendants. The
complaints,  as  amended,  allege  that   the  defendants  knew  or   recklessly
disregarded  and failed  to disclose  to the  investing public  material adverse
information about the Company. Defendants are accused of having allegedly failed
to disclose,  or  delayed  in  disclosing, among  other  things:  (a)  that  the
allegedly real reason the Company announced on May 26, 1988 that it was dropping
a  proposed  merger  with  Cooper  Development  Company,  Inc.  was  because the
Company's banks were opposed to the merger; (b) that the proposed sale of Cooper
Technicon, Inc.,  a former  subsidiary of  the Company,  was not  pursuant to  a
definitive  sales agreement but merely an  option; (c) that such option required
the approval of the Company's  debentureholders and preferred stockholders;  (d)
that  the approval of such sale  by the Company's debentureholders and preferred
stockholders would not have  been forthcoming absent extraordinary  expenditures
by  the Company;  and (e)  that the purchase  agreement between  the Company and
Miles, Inc.  for  the  sale  of  Cooper  Technicon,  Inc.  included  substantial
penalties  to be  paid by  the Company  if the  sale was  not consummated within
certain time limits and that the sale could not be consummated within those time
limits. The amended complaints further allege that the defendants are liable for
having violated Section 10(b)  of the Securities Exchange  Act and Rule  10(b)-5
thereunder and having engaged in common law fraud. Based on management's current
knowledge  of  the facts  and circumstances  surrounding  the events  alleged by
plaintiffs as giving  rise to  their claims, the  Company believes  that it  has
meritorious  defenses to these lawsuits and intends vigorously to defend against
the  allegations  in  the  amended  complaints.  The  parties  have  engaged  in
preliminary  settlement negotiations; however,  there can be  no assurances that
these discussions will be successfully concluded.
 
     On September 2, 1993, a patent infringement complaint was filed against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada captioned
Steven P. Shearing v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. On or about that same day,  the
plaintiff  filed twelve additional complaints,  accusing at least fourteen other
defendants of infringing  the same patent.  The patent in  these suits covers  a
specific  method of implanting an intraocular  lens into the eye. Until February
1989, the Company  manufactured intraocular lenses  and ophthalmic  instruments,
but  did not engage in  the implantation of such  lenses. Subsequent to February
1989, the Company  was not  involved in the  manufacture, marketing  or sale  of
intraocular  lenses. The Company  denies the material  allegations of Shearing's
complaint and will vigorously defend itself.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The Company  is a  defendant in  more than  2,600 breast  implant  lawsuits
pending in federal district courts and state courts, some of which purport to be
class  actions, relating to the mammary  prosthesis (breast implant) business of
its former wholly-owned subsidiaries, Aesthetech Corporation ('Aesthetech'), the
manufacturer, and  Natural  Y Surgical  Specialities,  Inc. ('Natural  Y'),  the
distributor,  of polyurethane foam covered, silicone gel-filled breast implants,
which subsidiaries  were  sold to  Medical  Engineering Corporation  ('MEC'),  a
wholly-owned  subsidiary of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company ('BMS') on December 14,
1988.
 
     The plaintiffs in the breast implant lawsuits generally claim to have  been
injured  by breast  implants allegedly  manufactured and/or  sold by Aesthetech,
Natural Y or MEC. The  ailments typically alleged include autoimmune  disorders,
scleroderma,   chronic   fatigue   syndrome   and   vascular   and  neurological
complications, as well as, in some cases,  a fear of cancer. A small  percentage
of  lawsuits allege that plaintiffs are  suffering from cancer, allegedly caused
by the  component parts  of the  implants, including  the alleged  breakdown  of
polyurethane  foam used to  cover the implants. In  most cases, other defendants
are named  in addition  to the  Company,  Aesthetech, Natural  Y, MEC  and  BMS,
including,  in many cases, implanting surgeons and the suppliers of the silicone
and polyurethane products used in the manufacture of the breast implants.
 
     On October 29,  1992, the  Delaware Chancery Court  in Medical  Engineering
Corporation and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. ruled
that,  as between BMS and MEC,  on the one hand, and  the Company, on the other,
the Company is responsible for product liability claims and obligations relating
to breast implants sold by Natural  Y before December 14, 1988, irrespective  of
when  the claims are brought. On September  28, 1993, the Company announced that
it had entered into  an agreement with MEC  (the 'MEC Agreement') settling  this
litigation  between the Company and BMS and  MEC. Pursuant to the MEC Agreement,
MEC has agreed, subject  to limited exceptions, to  take responsibility for  all
legal  fees and other costs, and to pay all judgments and settlements, resulting
from all  pending  and future  claims  in respect  of  breast implants  sold  by
Aesthetech  and  Natural Y  prior  to their  acquisition  by MEC  (including the
above-mentioned lawsuits),  and the  Company  has withdrawn  its appeal  of  the
Delaware Chancery Court decision and agreed, among other things, to make certain
payments  to MEC.  Pursuant to the  terms of  the MEC Agreement,  MEC could have
terminated the agreement if the Exchange Offer and Solicitation relating to  its
Debentures   (or  an  alternative  restructuring  of  the  Debentures  or  other
amendment, forebearance  or  waiver with  respect  to the  Debentures)  was  not
completed on terms satisfactory to the Company by February 1, 1994. The Exchange
Offer and Solicitation was completed on January 6, 1994. See Notes 14 and 19.
 
     The  Company  was named  as a  defendant  in a  civil action  entitled Site
Microsurgical Systems v. The Cooper Companies,  Inc. filed in the United  States
District  Court of Delaware on November 13, 1990. The plaintiff alleged that the
Company infringed one  of its  U.S. patents  through sales  by the  CooperVision
Surgical  Division  ('CVS')  of  certain cassettes  and  systems  utilizing such
cassettes prior to the  sale of CVS  in February, 1989.  The Company denied  the
plaintiff's  allegations  and  counterclaimed  for  a  Declaratory  Judgment  of
non-infringement and invalidity of the plaintiff's patent-in-suit. This  lawsuit
was settled in October 1993. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company made a cash
payment  to  the  plaintiff  and the  parties  terminated  a  generic ophthalmic
pharmaceutical supply agreement.
 
NOTE 19. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     On January  6,  1994,  the  Company  consummated  the  Exchange  Offer  and
Solicitation  in  which  it  issued  approximately  $22,000,000  of  10%  Senior
Subordinated Secured  Notes  due  2003  (the  'Notes')  and  paid  approximately
$4,350,000  in cash ($725  principal amount of  Notes and $145  in cash for each
$1,000 principal amount of Debentures) in exchange for approximately $30,000,000
aggregate principal amount of Debentures (out of $39,384,000 aggregate principal
amount then outstanding). The  Company also obtained,  pursuant to the  Exchange
Offer    and   Solicitation,    consents   of   the    holders   of   Debentures
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
to (i) certain  proposed amendments to  the Indenture and  (ii) the Waiver.  See
Note  11. Following  the exchange, approximately  $9,400,000 aggregate principal
amount of Debentures remain outstanding.
 
     On January 6, 1994, after receiving consents from holders of a majority  of
the  outstanding principal amount of Debentures not  owned by the Company or its
affiliates, the Waiver was  effected and the Company  and the Trustee under  the
Indenture  executed  the Second  Supplemental  Indenture effecting  the proposed
amendments, which eliminated or modified various covenants in the Indenture.
 
     The consummation of the  Exchange Offer and  Solicitation also satisfied  a
condition  of the  MEC Agreement, described  in Note 18,  limiting the Company's
liability with respect to breast implant litigation.
 
     The Notes bear interest from September 1,  1993 at a rate equal to 10%  per
annum.  (Interest accrued from September 1, 1993  will not be paid on Debentures
tendered and accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offer and Solicitation.) Interest
on the Notes  is payable  quarterly on  each March 1,  June 1,  September 1  and
December  1, commencing March  1, 1994. The  Notes are redeemable  solely at the
option of the Company, in whole or in  part, at any time, at a redemption  price
equal  to  100% of  their  principal amount,  together  with accrued  and unpaid
interest thereon to  the redemption date.  The Company will  not be required  to
effect  any mandatory redemptions or make any sinking fund payments with respect
to the Notes, except in connection with certain sales or other dispositions  of,
or certain financings secured by, the collateral securing the Notes. Pursuant to
a  pledge agreement  dated as of  January 6,  1994, between the  Company and the
trustee for the holders of the Notes,  the Company has pledged a first  priority
security  interest in all of  its right, title and interest  in stock of HGA and
CooperSurgical, all additional shares of stock of, or other equity interests  in
HGA  and  CooperSurgical  from  time  to  time  acquired  by  the  Company,  all
intercompany indebtedness of HGA  and CooperSurgical from time  to time held  by
the  Company and, except as set forth  in the indenture governing the Notes, the
proceeds received from the sale or disposition of any or all of the foregoing. A
full description of the  pledge agreement and terms  of the indenture  governing
the  Notes is included in  the Company's Amended and  Restated Offer to Exchange
and Consent Solicitation filed with SEC on December 15, 1993.
 
     The Exchange Offer and  Solicitation has been  accounted for in  accordance
with  Statement of Financial Accounting Standards  No. 15 'Accounting by Debtors
and Creditors for  Troubled Debt Restructurings.'  Consequently, the  difference
between  the carrying value of  the Debentures exchanged less  the face value of
the Notes issued and the aggregate  cash payment for the Debentures is  recorded
as  a deferred premium. The  Company will recognize the  benefit of the deferred
premium prospectively as a reduction to the effective interest rate on the Notes
over the  life of  the issue.  In addition,  the Company  recorded a  charge  of
$2,131,000  in 1993  for the estimated  debt restructuring costs  related to the
Exchange Offer and Solicitation.
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
     All  outstanding  loans are  due on  demand  under certain  conditions. The
following footnotes address original  loan amounts and  do not reflect  interest
accrued or collected.
 
- ------------
 
 (A) Represents  a 9%  term loan of  $900,000 granted pursuant  to an employment
     agreement dated October 31, 1989, secured by a lien on real estate.
 
 (B) Represents a 9.5% temporary housing loan  of $200,000 secured by a lien  on
     real estate.
 
 

                                                                      SCHEDULE V
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
- ------------
 
 (A) Represents reclassification of an addition in 1992.
 
 (B) Represents acquired assets of CoastVision, Inc. and other items.
 
 (C) Represents write-off of leaseholds upon relocation of executive office.
 
 (D) Represents acquired assets of Hospital Group of America, Inc.
 
 (E) Represents write-off of machinery and equipment resulting from a fire.
 
 (F) Represents acquired assets of Euro-Med, Inc. and other items.
 
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE VI
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION OF
                         PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
- ------------
 
 (A) Represents write-off of leaseholds upon relocation of executive office.
 
 (B) Represents write-off of machinery and equipment resulting from a fire.
 
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
- ------------
 
 (A) Represents acquired reserve of CoastVision, Inc.
 
 (B) Represents acquired reserve of Hospital Group of America, Inc.
 
 (C) Uncollectible   accounts   written  off,   recovered   accounts  receivable
     previously written off and other items.
 
 (D) Recorded in Stockholders' Equity.
 
 

                                                                      SCHEDULE X
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
     Royalties, maintenance and repairs and taxes other than payroll and  income
taxes  are omitted as each  item does not exceed 1%  of net operating revenue as
reported in the Statement of Consolidated Operations.
 


                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (a) Documents filed as part of this report:
 
          1. Financial Statements of the Company.
 
     The  Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto, the Financial
Statement Schedules identified in (2) below  and the Accountants' Report on  the
foregoing are included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.
 
          2. Financial Statement Schedules of the Company.
 

 
     All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the  applicable
accounting regulations  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  are  not
required  under the related  instructions or are  not applicable and, therefore,
have been omitted.
 
     Also included  herein are  separate company  Financial Statements  and  the
Notes  thereto, the Accountants' Report thereon and required Financial Statement
Schedules of:
 
          Hospital Group of America, Inc. and Subsidiaries
 
          CooperSurgical, Inc.
 
 

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
Board of Directors
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.:
 
     We have audited  the accompanying consolidated  balance sheets of  Hospital
Group  of America,  Inc. and  subsidiaries as of  October 31,  1993, October 31,
1992, May 29, 1992 and April 30, 1991 and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholder's equity and cash flows  for the year ended October  31,
1993,  for the period from May 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992, for the period from
June 1, 1991 to May 29,  1992, for the period from May  1, 1991 to May 31,  1991
and  for the  year ended April  30, 1991. In  connection with our  audits of the
consolidated financial  statements, we  also  have audited  financial  statement
schedules  V,  VI,  VIII  and X.  These  consolidated  financial  statements and
financial  statement  schedules   are  the  responsibility   of  the   Company's
management.  Our responsibility is  to express an  opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.
 
     We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to  above
present  fairly, in  all material respects,  the financial  position of Hospital
Group of America, Inc. and subsidiaries  at October 31, 1993, October 31,  1992,
May  29, 1992 and April  30, 1991 and the results  of their operations and their
cash flows for the year ended October 31, 1993, for the period from May 30, 1992
to October 31, 1992, for the period from  June 1, 1991 to May 29, 1992, for  the
period  from May 1, 1991 to May 31, 1991,  and for the year ended April 30, 1991
in conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  Also  in  our
opinion,  the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
     The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming  Hospital
Group  of America, Inc. will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note H
to the consolidated  financial statements, the  Company's losses, negative  cash
flows,  working  capital  deficiency,  and  dependence  upon  the  Parent  raise
substantial doubt about the  Company's ability to continue  as a going  concern.
Additionally,  the independent  auditors' report dated  January 24,  1994 on the
Parent's financial statements  as of  October 31, 1993  includes an  explanatory
paragraph  describing a substantial doubt about the Parent's ability to continue
as  a  going  concern.  The  accompanying  financial  statements  and  financial
statement  schedules do not  include any adjustments that  might result from the
outcome of these uncertainties.

                                                KPMG PEAT MARWICK
 
  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
January 24, 1994
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Basis of  Accounting  --  On  May 29,  1992,  The  Cooper  Companies,  Inc.
('Cooper'  or 'Parent') acquired  all of the  common stock of  Hospital Group of
America, Inc.  (HGA)  from  its  ultimate parent,  Nu-Med,  Inc.  (Nu-Med).  The
acquisition  of HGA was accounted for as a purchase and the purchase adjustments
were 'pushed-down' to the  separate financial statements of  HGA resulting in  a
new basis of accounting as of May 30, 1992. The Parent's cost of the acquisition
was  approximately $50  million, including  the assumption  of approximately $22
million of third-party debt of HGA.  The purchase price was allocated to  assets
and liabilities based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date.
The  purchase price  exceeded the estimated  fair value of  the identifiable net
assets  acquired  resulting  in  goodwill.  The  estimated  goodwill  amount  of
$6,155,000  was recorded as of May 30, 1992 and is being amortized over 30 years
on a straight-line basis.
 
     Business -- The accompanying consolidated financial statements include  the
accounts  of  HGA  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  (the  'Company').  All
intercompany balances and  transactions have been  eliminated. The Company  owns
and operates the following psychiatric facilities:
 

 
     Effective May 30, 1992, PSG Management, Inc. (PSG), a sister company to HGA
and  a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Cooper,  entered into a  three year agreement
with the following subsidiaries to manage the two psychiatric hospitals and  the
substance  abuse treatment center owned by  the subsidiaries of Nu-Med, Inc. The
management fee earned by  PSG from the subsidiaries  of Nu-Med, Inc. related  to
this  agreement is $2,000,000  annually, payable in  equal monthly installments.
The management agreement  is jointly and  severally guaranteed by  Nu-Med and  a
wholly owned subsidiary of Nu-Med, Inc. HGA is not a party to this agreement and
therefore the management fee earned by PSG from the subsidiaries of Nu-Med, Inc.
is  not  recognized  in  the  accompanying  financial  statements.  However,  in
connection with this agreement, HGA performs services on behalf of PSG for which
it earns a fee of 25% of certain of its corporate headquarters' cost plus a  20%
mark-up.  Such fees  earned by HGA  from PSG  amounted to $691,000  for the year
ended October 31, 1993 and $260,000 for the period from May 30, 1992 to  October
31,  1992. On  January 6, 1993,  Nu-Med (but not  any of its  direct or indirect
subsidiaries) filed a voluntary petition under  Chapter 11 of the United  States
Bankruptcy  Code. Neither Cooper  nor any of  its subsidiaries filed  a Proof of
Claim in the Nu-Med Chapter 11 proceeding, and the bar date (the time for filing
proofs of claim) has past. However,  none of the Nu-Med subsidiaries have  filed
under  Chapter 11, and the Nu-Med subsidiaries have paid the management fee on a
timely basis,  although  representatives of  Nu-Med  and its  subsidiaries  have
alleged  in writing  that PSG  Management has  breached the  management services
agreement (which  contention  PSG  Management  vigorously  disputes).  Moreover,
Nu-Med's  Proposed Disclosure Statement to accompany  its Second Amended Plan of
Reorganization, filed with the  United States Bankruptcy  Court for the  Central
District  of California, indicates that PsychGroup is commencing, performance of
certain administrative  functions  performed by  PSG  Management on  a  parallel
basis.
 
     The  following are subsidiaries of Nu-Med  which own the facilities managed
by PSG:
 

 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
     Net Patient Service Revenue -- Net  patient service revenue is recorded  at
the  estimated  net realizable  amounts from  patients, third-party  payors, and
others for services rendered, including estimated retroactive adjustments  under
reimbursement  agreements with  third-party payors.  Retroactive adjustments are
accrued on an estimated  basis in the period  the related services are  rendered
and adjusted in the period as final settlements are determined.
 
     Charity  Care --  The Company provides  care to indigent  patients who meet
certain criteria under its charity care policy without charge or at amounts less
than its established rates.  Because the Company does  not pursue collection  of
amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported as revenue.
The  Company maintains records to identify and monitor the level of charity care
it provides. These records include the  amount of charges foregone for  services
and  supplies furnished under its charity  care policy. Charges at the Company's
established rates forgone for charity care  provided by the Company amounted  to
$3,220,000  during the  year ended  October 31,  1993 and  $1,597,000 during the
period May 30, 1992  to October 31,  1992. Hampton Hospital  is required by  its
Certificate  of Need to  incur not less than  10% of total  patient days as free
care.
 
     Health Insurance Coverage  -- The  Company is self-insured  for the  health
insurance  coverage  offered  to  its  employees.  The  provision  for estimated
self-insured health  insurance  costs  includes management's  estimates  of  the
ultimate costs for both reported claims and claims incurred but not reported.
 
     Supplies -- Supplies consist principally of medical supplies and are stated
at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
     Property  and Equipment -- Property and  equipment are stated at fair value
as of May 29, 1992, the date  of the acquisition of HGA by Cooper.  Depreciation
is  computed on the straight-line method over  the estimated useful lives of the
respective  assets,  which  range  from  20  to  40  years  for  buildings   and
improvements, and 5 to 10 years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
     Other  Assets --  Loan fees incurred  in obtaining  long-term financing are
deferred and recorded as other assets. Loan fees are amortized over the terms of
the related loans. The balance of unamortized loan fees amounted to $540,000 and
$727,000, respectively, at October 31, 1993 and 1992.
 
     Income Taxes -- The Company is included in the consolidated tax returns  of
Cooper. The Company computes a tax provision as if it were a stand alone entity.
 
     Cash  and Cash Equivalents -- Cash and cash equivalents include investments
in highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of three months or less.
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide  for
payments  to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates. A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
      Commercial Insurance -- Most  commercial insurance carriers reimburse  the
      Company  on the basis of the hospitals'  charges, subject to the rates and
      limits  specified  in  their  policies.  Patients  covered  by  commercial
      insurance   generally  remain  responsible  for  any  differences  between
      insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
      Blue Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue Cross plans varies depending on the
      areas in which the Company presently operates facilities. Benefits paid to
      the Company can be charge-based, cost-based, negotiated per diem rates  or
      approved through a state rate setting process.
 
      Medicare  --  Services  rendered  to  Medicare  program  beneficiaries are
      reimbursed under a retrospectively determined reasonable cost system  with
      final settlement determined after
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
      submission of annual cost reports by the Company and audits thereof by the
      Medicare fiscal intermediary.
 
      Managed  Care --  Services rendered  to subscribers  of health maintenance
      organizations, preferred provider organizations and similar  organizations
      are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated rates.
 
     The  Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large insurance
companies and federal  and state  agencies or their  intermediaries. Other  than
adjustments  arising from audits by certain of  these agencies, the risk of loss
arising from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms  of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
     During  the  period  ended  October  31,  1992,  the  Company  received and
recognized as net patient service revenue, approximately $465,000 related to the
settlement of prior year cost reports.
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     The current  portion of  Due to  Parent  at October  31, 1993  consists  of
amounts  due under a demand  note ('Demand Note') for  costs incurred or paid by
the Parent in connection  with the acquisition, cash  advances from the  Parent,
interest  payable on the Subordinated Promissory  Note (as defined below) in the
amount of $2,680,000, and an  allocation of Cooper corporate services  amounting
to $623,000, net of payments to the Parent.
 
     All  current and future borrowings under the  terms of the Demand Note bear
interest, payable monthly, commencing on December 1, 1993 at the rate of 15% per
annum (17% in the event  principal and interest is not  paid when due), and  all
principal  and all accrued  and unpaid interest  under the Demand  Note shall be
completely due and payable on demand. Prior to December 1, 1993, the Parent  did
not  charge the Company for  amounts due to it except  for amounts due under the
Subordinated Promissory Note.
 
     The non-current  portion  of  Due  to  Parent  consists  of  a  $16,000,000
subordinated  promissory note  (the 'Subordinated Promissory  Note'). The annual
interest rate on the Subordinated Promissory  Note is 12%. The principal  amount
of  this Subordinated Promissory Note  shall be due and  payable on May 29, 2002
unless payable sooner pursuant to its terms.
 
     HGA allocates  interest  expense to  PSG  to  reflect an  estimate  of  the
interest  cost  on debt  incurred by  HGA in  connection with  the May  29, 1992
acquisition which  relates to  the PSG  management agreement  with Nu-Med.  Such
allocations amounted to $194,000 and 106,000 for the year ended October 31, 1993
and  the period  from May  30, 1992  to October  31, 1992,  respectively and are
recorded as reductions  of interest  on long-term debt  and interest  on due  to
Parent note.
 
D. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participates in Cooper's 401(k) plan (the 'Plan'), which covers
substantially  all full-time  employees with more  than 60 days  of service. The
Company matches employee contributions  up to certain  limits. These costs  were
$40,000  for the year ended October 31, 1993 and $26,000 for the period from May
30, 1992 to October 31, 1992.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
E. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt at October 31, 1993 and 1992 consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
     The long-term  debt agreements  contain  several covenants,  including  the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments. In addition, the Industrial
Revenue Bonds give the holders the right to accelerate all outstanding principal
at December 31, 1995 upon notification one year prior to that date.
 
     Substantially  all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in  various
litigation  cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
     The Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating  lease
agreements.  The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of October 31, 1993:
 

 
     Some of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or  increased
rental  (based upon increases  in the Consumer  Price Index), none  of which are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted to $736,000 and $340,000, respectively, for the year ended October  31,
1993, and the period from May 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992.
 
G. INCOME TAXES
 
     The  Company is  included in  the consolidated  tax returns  of Cooper. The
Company and Cooper have  incurred operating losses  and accordingly the  Company
has  not  recognized  any  income  tax  benefit  in  the  accompanying financial
statements.
 
     In February 1992,  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board (FASB)  issued
Statement  of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109, 'Accounting  for Income
Taxes.' Cooper  and  the  Company  are  required to  adopt  the  new  method  of
accounting  for income taxes  no later than  the fiscal year  ending October 31,
1994. Neither the Company nor Cooper  has completed an analysis to estimate  the
impact of the statement on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
H. DEPENDENCE UPON COOPER
 
     The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows since May 30, 1992,
and  has  a working  capital deficiency  at  October 31,  1993 which  includes a
liability to the Parent of $6,082,000. The Parent has provided the Company  with
cash  advances to  meet its cash  needs. The independent  auditors' report dated
January 24,  1994  on  the  Parent's October  31,  1993  consolidated  financial
statements includes the following explanatory paragraph:
 
          The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that
     the  Company will continue as a going concern. During the past three fiscal
     years, the Company has suffered significant losses and negative cash flows.
     In addition,  as discussed  in  Note 18  to  the financial  statements  the
     Company  is  exposed  to  contingent  liabilities  related  to  a  criminal
     conviction and a  Securities and Exchange  Commission action. Such  losses,
     negative  cash flows,  and contingent  liabilities raise  substantial doubt
     about  the  Company's  ability  to   continue  as  a  going  concern.   The
     consolidated  financial statements and financial statement schedules do not
     include any  adjustments  that  might  result from  the  outcome  of  these
     uncertainties.
 
     The  Company is unable  to predict the  effect, if any,  of the uncertainty
concerning the Parent's ability to continue as a going concern on its  financial
condition or results of operations. The aforementioned factors raise substantial
doubt  about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial
statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company
or its Parent is unable to continue as a going concern.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993 AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
I. Subsequent Event
 
     Pursuant to a  pledge agreement dated  as of January  6, 1994, between  the
Parent  and the trustee  for the holders  of a new  class of debt  issued by the
Parent (the 'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security  interest
in  all of its right, title and interest in stock of the Company, all additional
shares of stock of, or other equity  interest in, the Company from time to  time
acquired  by the Parent, all intercompany  indebtedness of the Company from time
to time held by the  Parent and except as set  forth in the indenture  governing
the  Notes, the proceeds received from the sale  or disposition of any or all of
the foregoing.  A full  description of  the pledge  agreement and  terms of  the
indenture  governing the Notes is included  in the Parent's Amended and Restated
Offer to  Exchange  and  Consent  Solicitation filed  with  the  Securities  and
Exchange Commission on December 15, 1993.
 


                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                  MAY 29, 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
                   PERIOD FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
BUSINESS
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts  of
Hospital  Group  of  America  (HGA)  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  (the
'Company') and certain other assets and operations owned by an entity affiliated
through common ownership. HGA was a wholly owned subsidiary of PsychGroup,  Inc.
which in turn is wholly owned by Nu-Med, Inc. The financial position and results
of  operations  of  Hospital  Group  of America  and  its  subsidiaries  may not
necessarily be indicative of conditions that may have existed or the results  of
operations  if  the Company  had been  operated as  an unaffiliated  entity. All
intercompany balances and  transactions have been  eliminated. The Company  owns
and operates the following psychiatric facilities:
 

 
BASIS OF PRESENTATION

On May 29, 1992, PSG Acquisition, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of The Cooper
Companies, Inc. ('Cooper'), acquired all of the issued and outstanding
capital stock of HGA from PsychGroup, Inc. Concurrent with the acquisition, all
due from related parties balances as of May 29, 1992 were forgiven. The
accompanying financial statements represent the financial position and results
of operations of the Company as of May 29, 1992 immediately prior to the
acquisition and the periods from May 1, 1991 to May 31, 1991 and June 1, 1991 to
May 29, 1992 just prior to the acquisition and reflect the elimination of the
due from related parties balances as of May 29, 1992 with a corresponding charge
to retained earnings in the amount of $20,595,000.

 
 
NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net  patient service  revenue is recorded  at the  estimated net realizable
amounts from patients,  third-party payors,  and others  for services  rendered,
including  estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements with
third-party payors. Retroactive adjustments are accrued on an estimated basis in
the period the related services are rendered and adjusted in the period as final
settlements are determined.
 
CHARITY CARE
 
     The Company provides  care to  indigent patient who  meet certain  criteria
under  its  charity care  policy  without charge  or  at amounts  less  than its
established rates.  Because the  Company does  not pursue  collection of  amount
determined  to qualify as  charity care, they  are not reported  as revenue. The
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
Company maintains records to identify and  monitor the level of charity care  it
provides.  These records include the amount of charges foregone for services and
supplies furnished  under its  charity  care policy.  Charges at  the  Company's
established  rates foregone for charity care provided by the Company amounted to
$326,000 during the month of May 1991 and $4,768,000 for the period from June 1,
1991 to May 29, 1992. Hampton Hospital is required by its Certificate of Need to
incur not less than 10% of total patient days as free care.
 
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
 
     Effective October  1, 1991,  the  Company is  self-insured for  the  health
insurance  coverage  offered  to  its  employees.  The  provision  for estimated
self-insured health  insurance  costs  includes management's  estimates  of  the
ultimate costs for both reported claims and claims incurred but not reported.
 
SUPPLIES
 
     Supplies  consist principally  of medical  supplies and  are stated  at the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed on  the
straight-line  method over the estimated useful  lives of the respective assets,
which range from  20 to 40  years for buildings  and improvements, and  5 to  10
years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
OTHER ASSETS
 
     Pre-opening  costs incurred  in new  facilities and  loan fees  incurred in
obtaining long-term  financing  are  deferred  and  recorded  as  other  assets.
Pre-opening  costs are amortized  on a straight-line basis  over five years. The
unamortized portion of pre-opening costs was $21,000 at May 29, 1992. Loan  fees
are  amortized over the terms  of the related loans.  The balance of unamortized
loan fees amounted to $802,000 at May 29, 1992.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company was  included in the  consolidated tax returns  of Nu-Med.  The
Company  computes  a tax  provision  as if  it  were a  stand-alone  entity. The
corresponding liability for such  taxes is included in  the net amount Due  from
Related Parties.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  investments  in  highly  liquid debt
instruments with a maturity of three months or less.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide  for
payments  to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates. A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
          Commercial Insurance -- Most  commercial insurance carriers  reimburse
     the  Company on the basis  of the hospitals' charges,  subject to the rates
     and limits  specified in  their policies.  Patients covered  by  commercial
     insurance   generally  remain  responsible   for  any  differences  between
     insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
          Blue Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue Cross plans varies depending on
     the areas in which the Company presently operates facilities. Benefits paid
     to the Company can be  charge-based, cost-based, negotiated per diem  rates
     or approved through a state rate setting process.
 
          Medicare  -- Services  rendered to Medicare  program beneficiaries are
     reimbursed under a retrospectively  determined reasonable cost system  with
     final  settlement determined after submission of annual cost reports by the
     Company and audits thereof by the Medicare fiscal intermediary.
 
          Managed Care -- Services rendered to subscribers of health maintenance
     organizations, preferred provider  organizations and similar  organizations
     are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated rates.
 
     The  Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large insurance
companies and federal  and state  agencies or their  intermediaries. Other  than
adjustments  arising from audits by certain of  these agencies, the risk of loss
arising from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms  of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Due from related parties consisted primarily of cash advances to Nu-Med and
income tax obligations.
 
     Included in the Other Operating Revenue are management fees of $320,000 for
the month of May 1991 and $3,557,000 for the period from June 1, 1991 to May 29,
1992 charged to other affiliated entities which are under common ownership.
 
     In  connection with  the acquisition of  HGA, all due  from related parties
balances as of May 29, 1992 were  forgiven and the balance of $20,595,000 as  of
that date was eliminated with a corresponding charge to retained earnings.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
D. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participated in the Nu-Med Combined Savings Plan, (the 'Plan'),
which  covers substantially all  full-time employees with more  than one year of
service. Nu-Med may make annual contributions  to the Plan based upon  earnings,
which  the Plan may utilize to acquire  Nu-Med common stock. In addition, Nu-Med
may make contributions to the Plan in  the form of Nu-Med common stock. No  such
contributions  were made during the periods ended May 31, 1991 and May 29, 1992.
The Company does not provide post-retirement benefits to its employees.
 
     Hartgrove had a defined benefit  pension plan, which was terminated  during
the  period ended May 29, 1992, at  which time all benefits became fully vested.
The excess  of  plan  assets  over vested  benefits  amounted  to  approximately
$94,000.  Such  amount  has been  recorded  as  other operating  revenue  in the
accompanying statement of earnings.
 
E. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt at May 29, 1992 consists of the following:
 

 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
     Annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
     The long-term  debt agreements  contain  several covenants,  including  the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments. In addition, the Industrial
Revenue Bonds give the holders the right to accelerate all outstanding principal
at December 31, 1995 upon notification one year prior to that date.
 
     Substantially  all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in  various
litigation  cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.
 
     The Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating  lease
agreements.  The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of May 29, 1992:
 

 
     Some of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or  increased
rental  (based upon increases  in the Consumer  Price Index), none  of which are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted to $37,000 and
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
$619,000 for the periods from May  1, 1991 to May 31,  1991 and June 1, 1991  to
May 29, 1992.
 
G. INCOME TAXES
 
     The  provision for income  taxes for the following  periods are composed of
the following:
 

 
     The provision for income taxes  included in the consolidated statements  of
earnings  differs from  the amount  computed by  applying the  statutory federal
income tax rate of 34% to earnings before  taxes due to the effect of the  state
franchise  taxes, net of  federal benefit. This  amounted to 6%  for the periods
presented.
 
     In February 1992,  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board (FASB)  issued
Statement  of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109, 'Accounting  for Income
Taxes.' Cooper  and  the  Company  are  required to  adopt  the  new  method  of
accounting  for income taxes  no later than  the fiscal year  ending October 31,
1994. Neither the Company nor Cooper  has completed an analysis to estimate  the
impact of the statement on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
H. DEPENDENCE UPON COOPER


The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows since May 30, 1992, and
has a working capital deficiency at October 31, 1993 which includes
a liability to Cooper of $6,082,000. Cooper has provided the Company with cash
advances to meet its cash needs. The independent auditors, report dated January
24, 1994 on Cooper's October 31, 1993 consolidated financial statements includes
the following explanatory paragraph:

 
     'The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming
     that the Company will continue as a going concern. During the past three
     fiscal years, the Company has suffered significant losses and negative cash
     flows. In addition, as discussed in Note 18 to the financial statements the
     Company is exposed to contingent liabilities relatated to a criminal
     conviction and a Securities and Exchange Commission action. Such losses,
     negative cash flows and contingent liabilities raise substantial doubt
     about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The
     consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules do not
     include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these
     uncertainties.'
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                  PERIODS FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991 AND
                          JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
      The Company is unable to predict the effect, if any, of the uncertainty
concerning Cooper's ability to continue as a going concern on its financial
condition or results of operations. The aforementioned factors raise substantial
doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The financial
statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company
or Cooper is unable to continue as a going concern.
 

I. Subsequent Event
 
Pursuant to a pledge agreement dated as of January 6, 1994, between the Parent
and the trustee for the holders of a new class of debt issued by the Parent (the
'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security interest in all of
its right, title and interest in stock of the Company, all additional shares of
stock of, or other equity interest in, the Company from time to time acquired by
the Parent, all intercompany indebtedness of the Company from time to time held
by the Parent and except as set forth in the indenture to the Notes, the
proceeds received from the sale or disposition of any or all of the foregoing. A
full description of the pledge agreement and terms of the indenture to the Notes
is included in the Parent's Amended and Restated Offer to Exchange and Consent
Solicitation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 15,
1993.



                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 


                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Business  -- The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of  Hospital  Group  of  America, Inc.,  (HGA)  and  its  wholly  owned
subsidiaries (the 'Company') and certain other assets and operations owned by an
entity affiliated through common ownership. HGA was a wholly owned subsidiary of
PsychGroup,  Inc. which in turn is  wholly-owned by Nu-Med, Inc. ('Nu-Med'). The
financial position and results of operations of HGA and its subsidiaries may not
necessarily be indicative of conditions that may have existed or the results  of
operations  if  the Company  had been  operated as  an unaffiliated  entity. All
intercompany balances and  transactions have been  eliminated. The Company  owns
and operates the following psychiatric facilities:
 

 
     Basis  of Presentation -- On May 29,  1992, PSG Acquisition, Inc., a wholly
owned subsidiary of The Cooper Companies,  Inc. ('Cooper'), acquired all of  the
issued  and outstanding  capital stock of  HGA from  PsychGroup, Inc. Concurrent
with the acquisition, all due from related  parties balances as of May 29,  1992
were  forgiven. The  accompanying financial statements  represent the historical
position and results of operations of the  Company as of April 30, 1991 and  for
the  year then ended.  The accompanying financial statements  do not reflect the
elimination of the due from related parties balances with a corresponding charge
to retained earnings which as of May 29, 1992 amounted to $20,595,000.
 
     Net Patient Service Revenue -- Net  patient service revenue is recorded  at
the  estimated  net realizable  amounts from  patients, third-party  payors, and
others for services rendered, including estimated retroactive adjustments  under
reimbursement  agreements with  third-party payors.  Retroactive adjustments are
accrued on an estimated  basis in the period  the related services are  rendered
and adjusted in the period as final settlements are determined.
 
     Charity  Care --  The Company provides  care to indigent  patients who meet
certain criteria under its charity care policy without charge or at amounts less
than its established rates.  Because the Company does  not pursue collection  of
amounts determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported as revenue.
The  Company maintains records to identify and monitor the level of charity care
it provides. These records include the  amount of charges foregone for  services
and  supplies furnished under its charity  care policy. Charges at the Company's
established rates foregone for charity care provided by the Company amounted  to
$3,457,000  for the year ended  April 30, 1991. Hampton  Hospital is required by
its Certificate of Need to incur not less than 10% of total patient days as free
care.
 
     Supplies -- Supplies consist principally of medical supplies and are stated
at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
     Property and  Equipment  -- Property  and  equipment are  stated  at  cost.
Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line  method over the estimated useful
lives of the respective assets,  which range from 20  to 40 years for  buildings
and improvements, and 5 to 10 years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
     Other  Assets -- Pre-opening costs incurred in new facilities and loan fees
incurred in obtaining  long-term financing  are deferred and  recorded as  other
assets.  Pre-opening  costs are  amortized on  a  straight-line basis  over five
years. Loan fees are amortized over the terms of the related loans. The  balance
of unamortized loan fees was $896,000 as of April 30, 1991.
 
     Income Taxes -- The Company was included in the consolidated tax returns of
Nu-Med. The Company computes a tax provision as if it were a stand alone entity.
The  corresponding liability for  such taxes is  included in the  net amount Due
from Related Parties.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 
     Malpractice Insurance Coverage --  Medical malpractice claims were  covered
by  an occurrence-basis medical malpractice insurance  policy. In the opinion of
management,  sufficient  reserves  have  been  established  for  any   potential
deductible  to  be  paid by  the  Company.  These reserves  are  maintained upon
Nu-Med's financial statements and are not allocated to individual  subsidiaries.
The  costs  and deductibles  associated  with the  policy  are allocated  to the
Company and are included in operating  expenses. Subsequent to October 1,  1991,
the  Company became directly responsible for its own malpractice insurance, with
Nu-Med being responsible for any tail coverage through May 29, 1992.
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide  for
payments  to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates. A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
      Commercial Insurance -- Most  commercial insurance carriers reimburse  the
      Company  on the basis of the hospitals'  charges, subject to the rates and
      limits  specified  in  their  policies.  Patients  covered  by  commercial
      insurance   generally  remain  responsible  for  any  differences  between
      insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
      Blue Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue Cross plans varies depending on the
      areas in which the Company presently operates facilities. Benefits paid to
      the Company can be charge-based, cost-based, negotiated per diem rates  or
      approved through a state rate setting process.
 
      Medicare  --  Services  rendered  to  Medicare  program  beneficiaries are
      reimbursed under a retrospectively determined reasonable cost system  with
      final settlement determined after submission of annual cost reports by the
      Company and audits thereof by the Medicare fiscal intermediary.
 
      Managed  Care --  Services rendered  to subscribers  of health maintenance
      organizations, preferred provider organizations and similar  organizations
      are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated rates.
 
     The  Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large insurance
companies and federal  and state  agencies or their  intermediaries. Other  than
adjustments  arising from audits by certain of  these agencies, the risk of loss
arising from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms  of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Amounts  due from (to) related  parties at April 30,  1991 were composed of
the following (in thousands of dollars):
 

 
     Due from Nu-Med,  Inc. consists  primarily of cash  advances, transfers  of
certain  assets and income tax obligations. The repayment of this obligation was
not expected to commence within 12 months and was to be repaid over a period  of
years.  Therefore, this amount was classified as a long-term receivable at April
30, 1991.  In connection  with the  acquisition  of HGA,  all due  from  related
parties balances as of May 29, 1992 were forgiven and the balance of $20,595,000
as of that date was eliminated with a corresponding charge to retained earnings.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 
     Included  in Other Operating  Revenue are management  fees charged to other
affiliated entities  which are  under common  ownership. Such  fees amounted  to
$3,172,000 for 1991.
 
D. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 
     Scheduled  annual maturities of long-term debt as  of April 30, 1991 are as
follows:
 

 
     The long-term  debt agreements  contain  several covenants,  including  the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments. In addition, the Industrial
Revenue Bonds give the holders the right to accelerate all outstanding principal
at December 31, 1995 upon notification one year prior to that date.
 
     Substantially  all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
E. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participated in the Nu-Med Combined Savings Plan, (the 'Plan'),
which covers substantially all  full-time employees with more  than one year  of
service.  Nu-Med may make annual contributions  to the Plan based upon earnings,
which the Plan may utilize to  acquire Nu-Med common stock. In addition,  Nu-Med
may  make contributions to the Plan in the  form of Nu-Med common stock. No such
contributions were made during the year  ended April 30, 1991. The Company  does
not provide postretirement benefits to its employees.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In  the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in various
litigation. In the  opinion of  management, the disposition  of such  litigation
will  not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial
position.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 
     The Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating  lease
agreements.  The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of April 30, 1991  (in
thousands of dollars):
 

 
     Some  of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or increased
rental (based upon  increases in the  Consumer Price Index),  none of which  are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted to $357,000 in 1991.
 
G. INCOME TAXES
 
     The  provision for income taxes is  composed of the following (in thousands
of dollars):
 

 
     The provision for income taxes  included in the consolidated statements  of
earnings  differs from  the amount  computed by  applying the  statutory federal
income tax rate of 34% to earnings before  taxes due to the effect of the  state
franchise  taxes, net of federal benefit. This amounted to 5% for the year ended
April 30, 1991.
 
     In February 1992,  the Financial Accounting  Standards Board (FASB)  issued
Statement  of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109. 'Accounting  for Income
Taxes'. Cooper  and  the  Company  are  required to  adopt  the  new  method  of
accounting  for income taxes  no later than  the fiscal year  ending October 31,
1994. Neither the Company nor Cooper  has completed an analysis to estimate  the
impact of the statement on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
H. DEPENDENCE UPON COOPER
 
     The Company has incurred losses and negative cash flows since May 30, 1992,
and  has  a working  capital deficiency  at  October 31,  1993 which  includes a
liability to Cooper  of $6,082,000. Cooper  has provided the  Company with  cash
advances  to meet its cash needs. The independent auditors' report dated January
24, 1994 on Cooper's October 31, 1993 consolidated financial statements includes
the following explanatory paragraph:
 
          'The accompanying  financial statements  have been  prepared  assuming
     that  the Company will continue  as a going concern.  During the past three
     fiscal years, the Company has suffered significant losses and negative cash
     flows. In addition, as discussed in Note 18 to the financial statements the
     Company  is  exposed  to  contingent  liabilities  related  to  a  criminal
     conviction  and a Securities  and Exchange Commission  motion. Such losses,
     negative cash  flows, and  contingent liabilities  raise substantial  doubt
     about   the  Company's  ability  to  continue   as  a  going  concern.  The
     consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules do  not
     include  any  adjustments  that  might result  from  the  outcome  of these
     uncertainties.'
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 
     The Company is  unable to predict  the effect, if  any, of the  uncertainty
concerning  Cooper's ability  to continue  as a  going concern  on its financial
condition or results of operations. The aforementioned factors raise substantial
doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The  financial
statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company
or Cooper is unable to continue as a going concern.
 
I. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     Pursuant  to a pledge  agreement dated as  of January 6,  1994, between the
Parent and the  trustee for the  holders of a  new class of  debt issued by  the
Parent  (the 'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security interest
in all of its right, title and interest in stock of the Company, all  additional
shares  of stock of, or other equity interest  in, the Company from time to time
acquired by the Parent, all intercompany  indebtedness of the Company from  time
to  time held  by the Parent  and except  as set forth  in the  indenture to the
Notes, the proceeds received from the sale  or disposition of any or all of  the
foregoing. A full description of the pledge agreement and terms of the indenture
governing  the Notes is included  in the Parent's Amended  and Restated Offer to
Exchange and  Consent  Solicitation  filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission on December 15, 1993.
 


                                                                      SCHEDULE V
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                             PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                  PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
- ------------
 
 (A) Includes   adjustment   of  accounts   to  fair   value  pursuant   to  the
     implementation of purchase accounting.
 
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE VI
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                  PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
- ------------
 
 (A) Write-off of  accumulated depreciation  pursuant to  the implementation  of
     purchase accounting.
 
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                  PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
 

                                                                      SCHEDULE X
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                  PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
                    PERIOD FROM MAY 1, 1991 TO MAY 31, 1991
                           YEAR ENDED APRIL 30, 1991
 

 
- ------------
 
Royalties, maintenance and repairs and taxes other than payroll and income taxes
are omitted as each item does not exceed 1% of net operating revenue as reported
in the statement of consolidated operations.
 


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
 
     We  have audited the accompanying balance sheets of CooperSurgical, Inc. as
of October  31,  1993  and  1992, and  the  related  statements  of  operations,
stockholders'  deficit, and cash flows  for each of the  years in the three-year
period ended October 31,  1993. In connection with  our audits of the  financial
statements,  we also have audited financial  statement schedules IV, VIII and X.
These  financial   statements  and   financial  statement   schedules  are   the
responsibility  of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedules based on
our audits.
 
     We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present  fairly,
in  all material respects, the financial  position of CooperSurgical, Inc. as of
October 31, 1993 and 1992, and the results of its operations and its cash  flows
for  each  of  the years  in  the  three-year period  ended  October  31,1993 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles. Also in our  opinion,
the  related financial statement  schedules, when considered  in relation to the
basic financial statements  taken as a  whole, present fairly,  in all  material
respects, the information set forth therein.
 
     The   accompanying  financial   statements  have   been  prepared  assuming
CooperSurgical, Inc. will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to
the financial statements, the Company's recurring losses and negative cash flows
from operations raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to  continue
as a going concern. Additionally, the independent auditors' report dated January
24, 1994 on the parent's financial statements as of October 31, 1993 included an
explanatory  paragraph describing a substantial doubt about the parent's ability
to continue  as  a going  concern.  The accompanying  financial  statements  and
financial  statement schedules do not include  any adjustments that might result
from the outcome of these uncertainties.
 

                                                KPMG PEAT MARWICK
 
Stamford, Connecticut
January 24, 1994
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                                 BALANCE SHEET
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                       STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT
               YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993, 1992, 1991 AND 1990
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
     During Fiscal 1993, furniture  and equipment with a  net book value of  $56
were  transferred to CooperSurgical  from the Parent.  This non-cash transaction
was recorded as an increase to Parent advances.
 
     During Fiscal 1991, CooperSurgical assumed notes payable of $1,525 with the
acquisition of Euro-Med Endoscope  and Euro-Med, Inc., see  Note 2. Also  during
fiscal  1991, CooperSurgical assumed  promissory notes, due to  its Parent, as a
result of a $450 non-cash equity transfer to its Parent.
 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
GENERAL
 
     CooperSurgical,  Inc.  ('CooperSurgical'  or  the  'Company'),  a  Delaware
corporation,    develops,   manufactures    and   distributes   electrosurgical,
cryosurgical  and  general  application  diagnostic  surgical  instruments   and
equipment.  The Cooper Companies, Inc.  ('Parent'), a Delaware corporation, owns
100% of CooperSurgical's Series A preferred stock. CooperSurgical's  outstanding
common  stock is 100% owned by  individuals on the CooperSurgical Advisory Board
which provides  counsel  and  management  of clinical  trials  in  the  area  of
minimally  invasive  surgery. The  accompanying  financial statements  have been
prepared from the separate records of  CooperSurgical and may not be  indicative
of  conditions which  would have  existed or  the results  of its  operations if
CooperSurgical operated autonomously (see Note 4). Foreign exchange  translation
and transactions are immaterial.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON PARENT
 
     CooperSurgical  has  incurred  substantial  losses  and  has  not generated
positive cash flows from operations.  The Company is, therefore, dependent  upon
its  Parent for  financing to  meet its  cash obligations.  The Company's Parent
issued its  October  31, 1993  consolidated  financial statements  on  or  about
January  24,  1994. The  independent  accountants' report  thereon  included the
following explanatory paragraph:
 
          The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that
     the Company will continue as a going concern. During the past three  fiscal
     years, the Company has suffered significant losses and negative cash flows.
     In  addition,  as discussed  in  Note 18  to  the financial  statements the
     Company  is  exposed  to  contingent  liabilities  related  to  a  criminal
     conviction  and a Securities  and Exchange Commission  action. Such losses,
     negative cash  flows, and  contingent liabilities  raise substantial  doubt
     about   the  Company's  ability  to  continue   as  a  going  concern.  The
     consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules do  not
     include  any  adjustments  that  might result  from  the  outcome  of these
     uncertainties.
 
     The Company is unable to predict the effect, if any, of this uncertainty on
its  financial  condition  or  results   of  operations.  These  factors   raise
substantial doubt about CooperSurgical's ability to continue as a going concern.
The  financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary
if CooperSurgical or its Parent is unable to continue as a going concern.
 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
     CooperSurgical recognizes  product  revenue  when  risk  of  ownership  has
transferred  to the buyer,  net of appropriate provisions  for sales returns and
bad debts.
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     CooperSurgical is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of
the Parent  pursuant  to  a  tax-sharing  agreement.  CooperSurgical  state  and
franchise taxes are de minimis.
 
     In  February 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ('FASB') issued
Statement of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109, 'Accounting  for  Income
Taxes.'  The  Parent and  CooperSurgical are  required to  adopt this  method of
accounting for income  taxes no later  than the fiscal  year ending October  31,
1994.  The Parent anticipates that the adoption of the statement will not have a
material impact on CooperSurgical's balance sheet.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are carried at the lower of cost, determined on an average cost
basis, or market.
 
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Furniture and equipment are  carried at cost.  Depreciation is computed  on
the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of depreciable assets.
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization  is currently provided on all  intangible assets on a straight
line basis over periods up to 20 years. Accumulated amortization at October  31,
1993 and 1992 was $831,000 and $541,000, respectively.
 
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS
 
     In  December  1990  and  January  1991,  CooperSurgical  acquired  Euro-Med
Endoscope and Euro-Med, Inc. for cash and notes in the amount of $3,250,000. The
acquisitions were  recorded using  the purchase  method of  accounting. The  two
companies  offer  a line  of  surgical instruments  and  diagnostic hysteroscopy
equipment for use  in gynecologic  and minimally  invasive surgical  procedures.
Goodwill  for these two businesses was $2,082,000 and is being amortized over 20
years.
 
     On a  pro forma  basis, if  Euro-Med,  Inc. results  had been  included  in
CooperSurgical's  results beginning  November 1, 1990,  the pro  forma net sales
would have been  approximately $8,460,000  and loss before  provision of  income
taxes would have been approximately $3,406,000.
 
     In  a  separate transaction,  CooperSurgical purchased  distribution rights
associated  with  the   aforementioned  surgical   instruments  and   diagnostic
hysteroscopy  equipment  from  the  previous owners  of  Euro-Med  Endoscope and
Euro-Med, Inc. for $256,000.
 
NOTE 3. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
 
     CooperSurgical utilized  a  cash  concentration  account  with  the  Parent
whereby  approximately $131,000 and $293,000 of checks issued and outstanding at
October 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, in excess of related bank cash balances
were reclassified to accounts payable. Sufficient funds were available from  the
Parent to cover these checks.
 
NOTE 4. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Included  in CooperSurgical's  selling, general  and administrative expense
are Parent allocations for  technical service fees  of $1,312,000, $341,000  and
$279,000 for the three years ended October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 respectively.
1993  technical  service fees  include $134,000  relating to  redetermination of
appropriate amount for the year ended October 31, 1992. These costs are  charges
from  the  Parent for  accounting,  legal, tax  and  other services  provided to
CooperSurgical.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Amounts due to the parent at October 31, 1993 and 1992 were composed of the
following:
 

 
NOTE 5. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long term debt consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual  maturities  of  long-term  debt,  including  current   installments
thereof, are as follows:
 

 
NOTE 6. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the normal course of its business, CooperSurgical is involved in various
litigation  cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of such
litigation will  not  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  CooperSurgical's
financial condition.
 
     CooperSurgical  leases certain property and equipment under operating lease
agreements. The following  is a schedule  of the estimated  minimum payment  due
under  such leases with an initial term of  more than one year as of October 31,
1993:
 

 
     Rental expense  for  all  leases amounted  to  approximately  $340,000  and
$322,000 for the years ended October 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
 
NOTE 7. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     CooperSurgical employees are eligible to participate in the Parent's 401(k)
Savings  Plan, a  defined contribution plan  and the  Parent's Retirement Income
Plan, a defined benefit plan. As of October 31,
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
1993, CooperSurgical has not elected  to participate in the Parent's  Retirement
Income Plan. Costs and expenses of administration of the Parent's 401(k) Savings
Plan  are  allocated  to CooperSurgical  as  appropriate. These  costs  were not
significant for the years ended October 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.
 
NOTE 8. SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
 
     The Series A Convertible Preferred  Stock is convertible into Common  Stock
on  a one-to-one  basis, subject to  adjustment for stock  splits, dividends and
certain other distributions of Common Stock  and has voting rights equal to  the
number  of shares of  Common Stock into  which it is  convertible. The Preferred
Stock has a liquidation preference of $1.940625 per share and accrues cumulative
dividends  of  $0.1940625  per  share  per  annum.  The  aggregate   liquidation
preference  of  the Preferred  Stock  at October  31,  1993 is  $1,242,000, plus
cumulative dividends of $248,000. The Preferred Stock participates ratably  with
the  Common Stock  in any  additional dividends  declared beyond  the cumulative
dividends and in  any remaining  assets beyond the  liquidation preference.  The
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock represents 96.5% of the total voting rights
of all outstanding CooperSurgical stock.
 
NOTE 9. INCOME TAXES
 
     As  of October 31, 1993, CooperSurgical, Inc. had federal tax net operating
loss carryforwards  of  $12,611,000 expiring  as  follows: 2006  --  $3,260,000,
2007 -- $3,083,000, and 2008 -- $6,268,000.
 
     The  tax benefits attributable to the net operating loss carryforwards have
not been recognized in the statements of operations for each of the years in the
three year  period ended  October 31,  1993  due to  the uncertainty  of  future
taxable income.
 
NOTE 10. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     Pursuant  to a pledge  agreement dated as  of January 6,  1994, between the
Parent and the  trustee for the  holders of a  new class of  debt issued by  the
Parent  (the 'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security interest
in all  of  its  right, title  and  interest  in stock  of  CooperSurgical,  all
additional shares of stock of, or other equity interests in, CooperSurgical from
time   to  time  acquired  by  the  Parent,  all  intercompany  indebtedness  of
CooperSurgical from time to time held by the Parent and, except as set forth  in
the  indenture  governing the  Notes,  the proceeds  received  from the  sale or
disposition of any or  all of the  foregoing. A full  description of the  pledge
agreement  and terms  of the  indenture governing the  Notes is  included in the
Parent's Amended and Restated Offer  to Exchange and Consent Solicitation  filed
with The Securities and Exchange Commission on December 15, 1993.
 
     On  January  24,  1994,  the  Company's  Parent  converted  $19,012,000  of
outstanding Parent  advances into  9,796,660 shares  of the  Company's Series  A
preferred   stock   and   converted   the   remaining   $3,313,000   balance  of
CooperSurgical's liability to its Parent into a promissory note due January  24,
1996.  As  a  result of  this  transaction,  advances due  to  Parent  have been
classified as long-term.
 
 

                                                                     SCHEDULE IV
 
                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
             INDEBTEDNESS OF AND TO RELATED PARTIES -- NOT CURRENT
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993

 
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
 

                                                                      SCHEDULE X
 
                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                   SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 

 
- ------------
 
*  Royalties, maintenance and repairs, and taxes other than payroll are  omitted
   as  each item does not exceed 1% of  net operating revenue as reported in the
   statement of operations.
 



          3. Exhibits.
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 

 


                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 26, 1994.
 
                                          THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
 
                                          By:       /s/ ALLAN E. RUBENSTEIN
                                                             ...
                                                    ALLAN E. RUBENSTEIN
                                              ACTING CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF
                                                          DIRECTORS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on January 26, 1994.
 

 




                         STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES









