
10-K
THE COOPER COMPANIES 10-K



________________________________________________________________________________
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994            COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8597
                            ------------------------
 
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                            ------------------------
 

 
                                  201-585-5100
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 
                            ------------------------
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
 
     Indicate  by check  mark whether the  registrant (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during the preceding  12 months, and  (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ x ] No [  ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge,  in definitive proxy  or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]
 
     Aggregate market value of  the voting stock held  by non-affiliates of  the
registrant as of December 31, 1994: Common Stock, $.10 Par Value -- $58,791,677
 
     Number  of  shares  outstanding of  the  registrant's common  stock,  as of
December 31, 1994: 34,116,722
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
                                      None
 
________________________________________________________________________________

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
INTRODUCTION
 
     The   Cooper  Companies,  Inc.  ('TCC'   or  the  'Company'),  through  its
subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets healthcare products,  including
a   range  of  contact  lenses  and  diagnostic  and  surgical  instruments  and
accessories,  and  provides  healthcare  services  through  the  ownership   and
operation  of certain  psychiatric facilities and  the management  of other such
facilities. TCC is a Delaware corporation which was organized on March 4, 1980.
 
COOPERVISION
 
     CooperVision, Inc. ('CooperVision'  or 'CVI'),  develops, manufactures  and
markets a range of contact lenses in the United States and Canada. Approximately
75%  of  the lenses  sold are  conventional  daily or  flexible wear  lenses and
approximately 25% constitute frequent replacement lenses.
 
     CooperVision's major  brand name  lenses are  Hydrasoft'r',  Preference'r',
Vantage'r',  Permaflex'r', Permalens'r'  and Cooper  Clear'tm'. These  and other
products enable CooperVision to fit the needs  of a diverse group of wearers  by
offering lenses formulated from a variety of polymers containing varying amounts
of  water and  different degrees  of oxygen  permeability, and  having different
design parameters, diameters, base curves  and lens edges. Certain lenses  offer
special  features  such as  protection  against ultraviolet  light,  color tint,
astigmatic correction  or aphakic  correction. Lenses  are available  in a  wide
range of prices.
 
     Preference'r'  is  a  frequent replacement  product  manufactured  from the
Tetrafilcon A polymer. Preference'r' was test marketed during the fourth quarter
of fiscal 1991 and introduced in fiscal 1992. Three clinical studies,  conducted
at  31 investigative  sites using  603 patients,  have demonstrated Preference's
superior performance in  connection with deposit  resistance, visual acuity  and
handling.
 
     In  April 1993, CooperVision acquired  CoastVision, Inc. ('CoastVision'), a
contact lens company which designs,  manufactures and markets high quality  soft
toric  lenses  (the  majority of  which  are  custom made)  designed  to correct
astigmatism.  The  acquisition  has  enabled  CooperVision  to  expand  into  an
additional niche in the contact lens market and to enlarge its customer base.
 
     In  October  1994, CooperVision  introduced  Preference Toric'tm',  a toric
frequent replacement product. Preference Toric'tm' combines the benefits of  the
Tetrafilcon A polymer and the low cost toric manufacturing techniques and design
characteristics   of  CoastVision's  Hydrasoft'r'.   This  new  product  enables
CooperVision to compete  in the  fast-growing toric  planned replacement  market
segment.
 
     CooperVision is continuing to explore opportunities to expand and diversify
its business into additional niche markets.
 
COOPERVISION PHARMACEUTICALS
 
     CooperVision  Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  ('CVP') is a  research and development
company  engaged  in  developing  proprietary  ophthalmic  pharmaceuticals.  Its
current  focus is on  topical applications of calcium  channel blocking drugs, a
class of compounds  traditionally used  systemically to  treat hypertension  and
selected  cardiac disorders. CVP is also developing, on a smaller scale, a group
of proprietary ophthalmic  formulations for  a number  of ophthalmic  diagnostic
products.
 
     Prior  to February  1993, CVP  marketed the  EYEscrub'tm' product  line. By
December 1994,  CVP  had discontinued  sales  of EYEscrub'tm'  and  its  branded
generic line of ophthalmic pharmaceuticals.
 
     CVP's  efforts currently are being focused primarily on CalOptic'tm', CVP's
brand of Verapamil HCl, a Class I calcium channel blocker. Studies sponsored  by
unrelated  third parties have  demonstrated the ability  of some calcium channel
blocking drugs  to  lower intraocular  pressure  after oral  administration.  In
fiscal  1991,  CVP obtained  an exclusive  license  to the  U.S. patent  for the
topical use  of Class  I  calcium channel  blockers as  potential  anti-glaucoma
compounds. CVP has filed additional U.S. and international
 

patent  applications.  CVP received  U.S. Food  and Drug  Administration ('FDA')
clearance to begin human clinical trials in June 1991.
 
     Studies conducted by CVP to  date indicate that the topical  administration
of  CalOptic'tm' may  offer a  novel approach  to treating  elevated intraocular
pressure, one of the leading  risk indicators of glaucoma. Elevated  intraocular
pressure  appears to be caused, in part, by a decrease of acqueous humor outflow
from the eye. CalOptic'tm' has demonstrated the ability to increase the  outflow
of acqueous humor. While leading glaucoma medications suppress the production of
aqueous  humor in the eye, they do  not address the underlying cause of elevated
intraocular pressure.
 
     Calcium channel blocking  drugs are  also known  to enhance  blood flow  in
certain  blood  vessels  following oral  administration.  Based on  a  number of
medical publications,  enhanced  bloodflow to  certain  regions of  the  eye  is
believed  to  be of  benefit  in treating  ocular  diseases associated  with the
posterior segments  of the  eye. CVP's  recently completed  studies may  provide
information  regarding the effect of  the topical administration of CalOptic'tm'
on ocular bloodflow.
 
     During 1994,  CVP  expanded  its  Phase II  and  III  clinical  studies  of
CalOptic'tm'.  These studies were designed to enable CVP to assess the extent of
intraocular pressure reduction and  side effects from  CalOptic'tm' in a  larger
patient population over a longer time period than in previous trials.
 
     The  analysis of clinical data from certain of those studies is anticipated
to be completed during  the first quarter  of calendar 1995.  At that time,  CVP
will  be in a better  position to determine the  protocol for its future studies
and whether to  continue with its  exclusive development of  CalOptic'tm' or  to
seek one or more partners to assist in its further development.
 
COOPERSURGICAL
 
     CooperSurgical,   Inc.  ('CooperSurgical'  or  'CSI')  was  established  in
November 1990 to compete  in niche segments of  the rapidly expanding  worldwide
market  for  diagnostic  and surgical  instruments,  accessories  and disposable
devices.  Its   business   is   developing,   manufacturing   and   distributing
electrosurgical,  cryosurgical and  general application  diagnostic and surgical
instruments,  disposable  devices  and   equipment  used  selectively  in   both
traditional   and  minimally  invasive  surgical  procedures,  especially  those
performed by gynecologists. Unlike traditional surgical devices, electrosurgical
instruments, which operate by means of  high radio frequency, dissect and  cause
coagulation,  making them useful in surgical  procedures to minimize blood loss.
Cryosurgical equipment  is  differentiated  by  its ability  to  apply  cold  or
sub-zero  temperatures  to  the body  in  order  to cause  adhesion,  provoke an
inflammatory response or destroy diseased tissue.
 
     CooperSurgical's loop electrosurgical excision procedure products, marketed
under the LEEP'tm' brand name, are viewed as an improvement over existing  laser
treatments  for primary use in the removal of cervical and vaginal pre-cancerous
tissue and  benign  external lesions.  Unlike  laser ablation,  which  tends  to
destroy  tissue,  the  electrosurgery  procedure  removes  affected  tissue with
minimal charring,  thereby  improving  the opportunity  to  obtain  an  accurate
histological  analysis of the  patient's condition by  producing a viable tissue
specimen for biopsy  purposes. In  addition, the  loop electrosurgical  excision
procedure  is less  painful to  the patient  than laser  ablation and  is easily
learned by practitioners. Because this procedure enables a gynecologist to  both
diagnose and treat a patient in one office visit, patients incur lower costs.
 
     CooperSurgical's   LEEP   System  6000'r'   branded  products   include  an
electrosurgical generator, sterile single  application LEEP Electrodes'tm',  the
CooperSurgical  Smoke  Evacuation  System 6080'tm',  a  single  application LEEP
RediKit'r', a  series of  educational video  tapes and  a line  of  autoclavable
coated LEEP'tm' surgical instruments. LEEP System 1000'tm' branded products have
been introduced for use abroad.
 
     CooperSurgical's  Euro-Med mail order business offers over 400 products for
use in gynecologic and general surgical  procedures. Over 60% of these  products
are exclusive to Euro-Med, including its 'signature' instrument series, cervical
biopsy  punches,  clear  plastic  instruments  used  for  unobstructed  viewing,
titanium instruments  used in  laser surgeries,  colposcopy procedure  kits  and
instrument  care and  sterilization systems.  In September  1994, CooperSurgical
introduced its Euro-Med catalog abroad.
 
 

The catalog, which was  printed in French and  German, was mailed to  physicians
practicing in Belgium, France and Germany.
 
     CooperSurgical's  Frigitronics'r'  instruments  for  cryosurgery  are  used
primarily in  dermatologic  procedures  to treat  skin  cancers,  in  ophthalmic
procedures  to treat  retinal detachments and  remove cataracts,  and in certain
gynecologic,  cardiovascular  and  general  surgical  procedures.  The   primary
products  bearing the Frigitronics brand name are the Model 310 Zoom Colposcope,
the CCS-200 Cardiac Cryosurgical System, the Model 2000 Ophthalmic  Cryosurgical
System and the Cryo-Plus System for gynecologic office procedures.
 
     In  August 1994, CooperSurgical  entered into an  agreement with InnerDyne,
Inc.  relating  to  InnerDyne's  proprietary  thermal  ablation  technology  for
gynecological  applications such as  the control of  excessive uterine bleeding.
Safety and efficacy studies  are currently underway  abroad. Upon completion  of
those  studies, CooperSurgical  will decide  whether to  exercise its  option to
acquire exclusive worldwide commercialization rights in exchange for an  initial
payment of $4 million plus royalties on future sales of the system. If it elects
to  exercise  its option,  CooperSurgical and  InnerDyne  will continue  to work
together to  develop and  commercialize the  proprietary technology.  While  the
project  is  still in  the exploratory  stage, CooperSurgical  has the  right to
terminate the agreement at any time with 30 days notice.
 
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA
 
     In May 1992, a newly-formed subsidiary  of the Company acquired all of  the
issued  and outstanding stock of Hospital  Group of America, Inc., a corporation
indirectly owned by  Nu-Med, Inc.  ('Nu-Med'). In  June 1992,  that company  was
merged  with TCC's  subsidiary, with  that subsidiary  surviving the  merger and
changing its name to Hospital Group of  America, Inc. ('HGA'). As a result,  HGA
acquired  three psychiatric facilities: Hartgrove  Hospital in Chicago, Illinois
(which currently  has 119  licensed  beds), Hampton  Hospital in  Rancocas,  New
Jersey  (which currently has  100 licensed beds) and  MeadowWood Hospital in New
Castle, Delaware  (which  currently has  50  licensed beds).  In  addition,  the
Company,  through  its  subsidiary,  PSG  Management,  Inc.  ('PSG Management'),
entered  into  a  management   services  agreement  (the  'Management   Services
Agreement')  with three indirectly  owned subsidiaries of  Nu-Med under which it
assumed  the  management   of  three  psychiatric   facilities  owned  by   such
subsidiaries:   Northwestern  Institute   of  Psychiatry   in  Fort  Washington,
Pennsylvania (which  currently has  146 licensed  beds), Malvern  Institute  for
Psychiatric and Alcohol Studies in Malvern, Pennsylvania (which currently has 36
licensed  beds), and Pinelands  Hospital in Nacogdoches,  Texas (which currently
has 40 licensed  beds). The  Management Services Agreement,  which provides  for
monthly  payments to PSG Management of $166,667, will expire by its terms in May
1995.
 
     HGA's  three  owned  and  three  managed  psychiatric  facilities   provide
intensive   and  structured  treatment  for  children,  adolescents  and  adults
suffering from  a  variety of  mental  illnesses and/or  chemical  dependencies,
including  treatment for women, older  adults, survivors of psychological trauma
and alcohol and  substance abusers. Services  include comprehensive  psychiatric
and  chemical  dependency evaluations,  inpatient  and outpatient  treatment and
partial hospitalization.
 
     In response to market demands for an expanded continuum of care, HGA is  in
the  process of expanding  its outpatient and  partial hospitalization programs.
Six  facilities,  affiliated  with  either  Hartgrove  Hospital  or   MeadowWood
Hospital, have been opened since January 1994. Several of those facilities offer
day treatment to children and adolescents, others offer treatment to chronically
mentally  ill adults and others offer outpatient counseling. Additional programs
are expected to commence operations in 1995.
 
 

     The following  is a  comparison  of certain  statistical data  relating  to
inpatient  treatment for  fiscal years 1992,  1993 and 1994  for the psychiatric
facilities owned by HGA:
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Reflects operations of HGA when owned by Nu-Med and, after May 29, 1992,  by
    TCC.
 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
 
     During  the three-year period for which information is provided, both total
patient days and average  length of stay  have declined. This  trend is due,  in
part,  to pressure  from managed  care groups  to limit  the length  of hospital
stays.
 
     Each  psychiatric  facility  is  accredited  by  the  Joint  Commission  of
Accreditation   of  Healthcare  Organizations   (JCAHO),  a  voluntary  national
organization  which  periodically  undertakes   a  comprehensive  review  of   a
facility's  staff,  programs, physical  plant  and policies  and  procedures for
purposes of accreditation of  such healthcare facility. Accreditation  generally
is  required for  patients to  receive insurance  company reimbursement  and for
participation by the facility in government sponsored provider programs.
 
     A medical group, which is not  affiliated with the Company, is  responsible
for   providing  clinical  and  clinical   administrative  services  at  Hampton
Psychiatric Institute  ('Hampton Hospital'),  the primary  facility operated  by
Hospital  Group  of New  Jersey, Inc.  ('HGNJ'),  a subsidiary  of HGA.  HGNJ is
seeking to terminate its agreement with HMG based upon allegations that HMG  has
engaged  in billing fraud  with respect to  the provision of  such services. See
Item 3, 'Legal Proceedings.'
 
     On October 9, 1992, HGA filed a complaint against Nu-Med and several of its
subsidiaries asserting claims in  excess of $4  million and asserted  additional
claims  against the same defendants  in excess of an  additional $6 million that
are to be resolved  by an independent auditor.  In both instances, HGA's  claims
arose  from  the  defendants'  alleged breaches  of  certain  provisions  in the
acquisition agreement pursuant to which the HGA facilities were acquired. Nu-Med
has since been reorganized under bankruptcy,  and the claims against Nu-Med  are
barred;  however,  the relevant  subsidiaries  of Nu-Med  (including  those that
directly or  indirectly own  the  three psychiatric  facilities managed  by  PSG
Management)  were not part  of Nu-Med's bankruptcy filing,  and HGA's claims are
still pending against those subsidiaries.
 
     Patient and Third Party Payments. HGA receives payment for its  psychiatric
services  either  from  patients,  from their  health  insurers  or  through the
Medicare, Medicaid and Civilian Health and Medical Program of Uniformed Services
('CHAMPUS') governmental programs. Medicare is a federal program which  entitles
persons  65 and over to a lifetime benefit of  up to 190 days as an inpatient in
an acute psychiatric facility. Persons  defined as disabled, regardless of  age,
also  receive  this  benefit. Medicaid  is  a  joint federal  and  state program
available to  persons with  limited financial  resources. CHAMPUS  is a  federal
program  which  provides  health  insurance  for  active  and  retired  military
personnel and their dependents.
 
     While other programs may  exist or be  adopted in different  jurisdictions,
the  following four categories reflect the  primary methods by which HGA's three
owned facilities receive payment for services:
 
          (a) Standard  reimbursement, consisting  of  payment by  patients  and
     their  health insurers, is based  on a facility's schedule  of rates and is
     not subject to negotiation with insurance companies, competitive bidding or
     governmental limitation.
 
          (b) Negotiated rate reimbursement is at prices established in  advance
     by negotiation or competitive bidding for contracts with insurers and other
     payors such as managed care companies,
 
 

     health  maintenance organizations ('HMO'), preferred provider organizations
     ('PPO') and similar organizations which can provide a reasonable number  of
     referrals.
 
          (c)  Cost-based reimbursement is  predicated on the  allowable cost of
     services, plus, in  certain cases,  an incentive payment  where costs  fall
     below  a target  rate. It  is used by  Medicare, Medicaid  and certain Blue
     Cross insurance programs to provide reimbursement in amounts lower than the
     standard or negotiated schedule of rates in effect at an HGA facility.
 
          (d) CHAMPUS reimbursement is at either (1) regionally set rates, (2) a
     national rate adjusted  upward periodically  on the basis  of the  Medicare
     Market  Basket  Index or  (3)  a fixed  discount  rate per  day  at certain
     facilities where CHAMPUS contracts with a benefit administration group.
 
     The Medicare, Medicaid and  CHAMPUS programs are  subject to statutory  and
regulatory  changes  and interpretations,  utilization reviews  and governmental
funding restrictions, all of which  may materially increase or decrease  program
payments  and the cost of providing services,  as well as the timing of payments
to the facilities.
 
     Limits on Reimbursement. Changes in government reimbursement programs  have
resulted in limitations on increases in, and in some cases in reduced levels of,
reimbursement  for, healthcare services, and additional changes are anticipated.
Such changes  are  likely to  result  in further  limitations  on  reimbursement
levels. In addition, private payors, including managed care payors, increasingly
are demanding discounted fee structures. Inpatient hospital utilization, average
lengths  of  stay and  occupancy  rates continue  to  be negatively  affected by
payor-required pre-admission authorization and  utilization review and by  payor
pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for
less  acutely ill patients.  In addition, efforts  to impose reduced allowances,
greater discounts  and more  stringent  cost controls  by government  and  other
payors  are expected to  continue. Although it  is unable to  predict the effect
these changes will have on its operations, as the number of patients covered  by
managed  care  payors increases,  significant limits  on  the scope  of services
reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and  fees could have an adverse effect  on
HGA's business and earnings.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     During the fiscal years ended October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, expenditures
for  Company-sponsored research and development  were $4,407,000, $3,209,000 and
$3,267,000,  respectively.  During  fiscal  1994,  approximately  63%  of  those
expenditures  was  incurred by  CVP, 21%  was incurred  by CooperVision  and the
balance was  incurred  by  CooperSurgical. No  customer-sponsored  research  and
development has been conducted.
 
     The  Company  employs  20  people  in  its  research  and  development  and
manufacturing engineering departments. Product development and clinical research
for CooperVision products are supported  by outside specialists in lens  design,
formulation  science, polymer chemistry, microbiology  and biochemistry. At CVP,
employees work with  outside consultants. Product  research and development  for
CooperSurgical  is  conducted  in-house  and  by  outside  surgical specialists,
including members  of both  the CooperSurgical  and Euro-Med  surgical  advisory
boards.  Research  involving  endometrial ablation  technology  is  performed by
experts in fluidics and heat transfer at InnerDyne.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     Healthcare Products. The development, testing, production and marketing  of
the  Company's healthcare products  is subject to  the authority of  the FDA and
other federal agencies  as well  as foreign  ministries of  health. The  Federal
Food,  Drug  and Cosmetic  Act  and other  statutes  and regulations  govern the
testing, manufacturing,  labeling, storage,  advertising and  promotion of  such
products. Noncompliance with applicable regulations can result in fines, product
recall or seizure, suspension of production and criminal prosecution.
 
     The  Company is currently developing and marketing both medical devices and
drug products. Medical devices are subject to different levels of FDA regulation
depending upon the  classification of  the device.  Class III  devices, such  as
flexible    and    extended    wear    contact    lenses,    require   extensive
 
 

premarket testing and  approval procedures,  while Class  I and  II devices  are
subject to substantially lower levels of regulation.
 
     A  multi-step procedure must be completed before  a new contact lens can be
sold commercially. Data must be compiled on the chemistry and toxicology of  the
lens,  its microbiological profile  and the proposed  manufacturing process. All
data generated must be submitted to the FDA in support of an application for  an
Investigational Device Exemption. Once granted, clinical trials may be initiated
subject to the review and approval of an Institutional Review Board and, where a
lens  is determined to be a significant risk device, the FDA. Upon completion of
clinical trials, a Premarket Approval Application must be submitted and approved
by the  FDA before  commercialization may  begin. A  similar procedure  will  be
followed  in  the  United  States  in connection  with  the  development  of the
InnerDyne thermal ablation technology should  the Company determine to  continue
its  development beyond the  initial safety and  efficacy trials being performed
abroad.
 
     The ophthalmic  pharmaceutical products  under development  by the  Company
require extensive testing before marketing approval may be obtained. Preclinical
laboratory  studies are conducted to determine the  safety and efficacy of a new
drug.  The  results  of   these  studies  are  submitted   to  the  FDA  in   an
Investigational  New Drug Application under which the Company seeks clearance to
commence human  clinical  trials.  The initial  clinical  evaluation,  Phase  I,
consists  of  administering the  drug and  evaluating  its safety  and tolerance
levels. Phase II involves studies to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug  for
a  particular indication, to  determine optimal dosage  and to identify possible
side effects. If the new  drug is found to  be potentially effective, Phase  III
studies,  which consist  of additional testing  for safety and  efficacy with an
expanded patient group, are  undertaken. If results  of the studies  demonstrate
safety  and efficacy,  marketing approval  is sought  from the  FDA by  means of
filing a New Drug Application.
 
     The Company, in  connection with  some of  its new  surgical products,  can
submit premarket notification to the FDA under an expedited procedure known as a
510(k)  application, which  is available for  any product  that is substantially
equivalent to a device marketed prior to May 28, 1976. If the new product is not
substantially equivalent to a pre-existing device or if the FDA were to reject a
claim of  substantial equivalence,  extensive preclinical  and clinical  testing
would  be required, additional  costs would be incurred  and a substantial delay
would occur before the product could be brought to market.
 
     FDA and  state  regulations  also require  adherence  to  applicable  'good
manufacturing  practices' ('GMP'), which mandate  detailed quality assurance and
record-keeping procedures. In conjunction therewith,  the Company is subject  to
unscheduled  periodic  regulatory inspections.  The  Company believes  it  is in
substantial compliance with GMP regulations.
 
     The Company also  is subject  to foreign  regulatory authorities  governing
human  clinical trials and pharmaceutical/medical  device sales that vary widely
from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval
of a product by comparable regulatory  authorities of foreign countries must  be
obtained  before  products  may be  marketed  in those  countries.  The approval
process varies from country to country, and  the time required may be longer  or
shorter than that required for FDA approval.
 
     The   procedures  described  above  involve  expenditures  of  considerable
resources and usually result in a  substantial time lag between the  development
of  a new  product and its  introduction into  the marketplace. There  can be no
assurance that all necessary  approvals will be obtained,  or that they will  be
obtained in a time frame that allows the product to be introduced for commercial
sale  in a  timely manner.  Furthermore, product  approvals may  be withdrawn if
compliance with  regulatory standards  is not  maintained or  if problems  occur
after marketing has begun.
 
     Healthcare  Services.  The  healthcare  services  industry  is  subject  to
substantial federal, state and  local regulation. Government regulation  affects
the  Company's business by controlling the use of its properties and controlling
reimbursement  for  services  provided.   Licensing,  certification  and   other
applicable  governmental regulations vary from  jurisdiction to jurisdiction and
are revised periodically.
 
     The Company's facilities  must comply  with the  licensing requirements  of
federal,  state and local health agencies and with the requirements of municipal
building codes, health codes  and local fire department  codes. In granting  and
renewing   a  facility's  license,  a   state  health  agency  considers,  among
 
 

other things,  the  condition  of  the physical  buildings  and  equipment,  the
qualifications  of  the  administrative personnel  and  professional  staff, the
quality of professional and other services and the continuing compliance of such
facility with applicable laws and regulations.
 
     Most states in which  the Company operates  or manages hospital  facilities
have  in effect certificate of need statutes. State certificate of need statutes
provide, generally, that prior to the construction of new healthcare facilities,
the addition of new beds  or the introduction of a  new service, a state  agency
must  determine that  a need  exists for those  facilities, beds  or services. A
certificate of  need  is generally  issued  for  a specific  maximum  amount  of
expenditures  or number  of beds or  types of  services to be  provided, and the
holder is generally required to implement the approved project within a specific
time period.  Certificate of  need issuances  for new  facilities are  extremely
competitive, often with several applicants for a single certificate of need.
 
     Five  of  the  six Company-owned  or  managed facilities  are  certified or
approved as providers under one or more of the Medicaid or Medicare programs. In
order to receive Medicare reimbursement, each facility must meet the  applicable
conditions  promulgated  by the  United States  Department  of Health  and Human
Services relating to the type of facility, its equipment, its personnel and  its
standards  of  patient  care. The  sixth  facility treats  only  substance abuse
conditions and is not eligible for certification.
 
     The Social Security Act contains a number of provisions designed to  ensure
that services rendered to Medicare and Medicaid patients are medically necessary
and  meet  professionally  recognized  standards.  Those  provisions  include  a
requirement that  admissions of  Medicare and  Medicaid patients  to  healthcare
facilities  must  be  reviewed  in  a timely  manner  to  determine  the medical
necessity of the  admissions. In addition,  the Peer Review  Improvement Act  of
1982  provides  that  a  healthcare  facility may  be  required  by  the federal
government to reimburse the  government for the  cost of Medicare-paid  services
determined by a peer review organization to have been medically unnecessary.
 
     Various state and federal laws regulate the relationships between providers
of  healthcare services  and physicians. Among  these laws are  the Medicare and
Medicaid Anti-Fraud  and Abuse  Amendments  to the  Social Security  Act,  which
prohibit  individuals  or entities  participating  in the  Medicare  or Medicaid
programs from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or  receiving
'remuneration'  (which includes anything of value)  in order to induce referrals
for items or services reimbursed  under those programs. Sanctions for  violating
the  Amendments include criminal penalties  and civil sanctions, including fines
and possible exclusion  from the  Medicare and Medicaid  programs. In  addition,
Section  1877 of the Social Security Act was amended, effective January 1, 1995,
to significantly broaden  the prohibitions against  physicians making  referrals
under Medicare and Medicaid programs to providers with which the physicians have
financial  arrangements. Many states  have adopted, or  are considering, similar
legislative proposals, some of which (including statutes in effect in New Jersey
and Illinois) extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs to all healthcare
services.
 
     In addition,  specific laws  exist  that regulate  certain aspects  of  the
Company's  business, such as the commitment of patients to psychiatric hospitals
and disclosure  of information  regarding patients  being treated  for  chemical
dependency.  Many states  have adopted a  'patient's bill of  rights' which sets
forth standards for  dealing with issues  such as use  of the least  restrictive
treatment, patient confidentiality, patient access to telephones, mail and legal
counsel and requiring the patient to be treated with dignity.
 
     Healthcare  Reform. In  recent years,  an increasing  number of legislative
initiatives  have  been  introduced  or  proposed  in  Congress  and  in   state
legislatures  that would effect  major changes in  the healthcare system, either
nationally or at the  state level. Among the  proposals under consideration  are
price   controls  on  hospitals,  insurance   market  reforms  to  increase  the
availability of group  health insurance to  small businesses, requirements  that
all  businesses  offer  health insurance  coverage  to their  employees  and the
creation of a  government health insurance  plan or plans  that would cover  all
citizens.  In 1993, President  Clinton introduced a  healthcare reform bill that
included a number of measures that  were broadly viewed as increasing the  scope
of  government  regulation  of  the healthcare  industry.  Key  elements  in the
President's proposal  and other  healthcare  reform proposals  included  various
insurance  market  reforms,  the  requirement  that  businesses  provide  health
insurance coverage for their employees, reductions or lesser increases in future
Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement to  providers and more stringent  government
cost  controls. None of these  proposals has been adopted.  There continue to be
efforts at  the federal  level to  introduce various  insurance market  reforms,
expanded fraud and abuse
 
 

and  anti-referral legislation and  further reductions in  Medicare and Medicaid
reimbursement. A broad range of  both similar and more comprehensive  healthcare
reform  initiatives  is  likely to  be  considered  at the  state  level.  It is
uncertain which,  if any,  of these  or  other proposals  will be  adopted.  The
Company  cannot yet  predict the  effect such reforms  or the  prospect of their
enactment may  have  on  the  business of  the  Company  and  its  subsidiaries.
Accordingly,  no assurance can be  given that the same  will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's revenues, earnings or cash flows.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     In general,  raw  materials required  by  CooperVision consist  of  various
polymers  as well  as packaging materials.  Alternative sources of  all of these
materials are available. Raw materials  used by CooperSurgical or its  suppliers
are  generally available  from a variety  of sources.  Products manufactured for
CooperSurgical are  generally  available from  more  than one  source.  However,
because    some   products   require   specialized   manufacturing   procedures,
CooperSurgical  could   experience  inventory   shortages  if   an   alternative
manufacturer  had  to be  secured on  short notice.  CVP currently  acquires its
Verapamil compound pursuant to the terms of a long-term supply agreement.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     CooperVision  manufactures  products  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.
CooperSurgical manufactures products in the United States and Europe.
 
     Pursuant  to a supply  agreement entered into in  May 1989 and subsequently
amended between  the Company  and Pilkington  plc, the  buyer of  the  Company's
contact  lens business  outside of  the United  States and  Canada, CooperVision
purchases certain  of its  lenses  from Pilkington  plc  (see Note  12)1.  These
purchased  lenses represented approximately 13%, 28% and 31% of the total number
of lenses sold by the Company in fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
 
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     Healthcare Products. In the United States and Canada, CooperVision  markets
its   products   through  its   field   sales  representatives,   who   call  on
ophthalmologists, optometrists,  opticians and  optical  chains. In  the  United
States, field sales representatives also call on distributors.
 
     CooperSurgical's  LEEP'tm',  Frigitronics'r',  hysteroscopy  and  endoscopy
products  are   marketed   worldwide  by   a   network  of   independent   sales
representatives  and distributors.  In the  United States,  CooperSurgical, as a
principal method of  increasing physician  awareness of  its products,  conducts
teaching  seminars. Euro-Med instruments, as well as certain LEEP'tm' disposable
products, are  marketed in  the United  States and  abroad through  direct  mail
catalog programs.
 
     Healthcare   Services.  HGA's  marketing  concept  aims  to  position  each
psychiatric facility  as  the provider  of  the highest  quality  mental  health
services  in its marketplace. HGA employs  a combination of general advertising,
toll-free  'help  lines,'  community   education  programs  and   facility-based
continuing  education programs  to underscore the  facility's value  as a mental
health resource center. HGA's marketing emphasizes discrete programs for  select
illnesses  or disorders because  of its belief that  marketing a generic product
without program differentiation  will not  generate the  interest of,  or be  of
value  to, a referral source seeking  treatment for specific disorders. Referral
sources include psychiatrists, other physicians, psychologists, social  workers,
school  guidance counselors, police, courts, clergy, care-provider organizations
and former patients.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSING AGREEMENTS
 
     TCC owns or licenses  a variety of domestic  and foreign patents which,  in
the  aggregate, are material to its  businesses. Unexpired terms of TCC's United
States patents range from less than one
 
- ------------
1 All references to Note numbers shall constitute the incorporation by reference
  of the  text of  the specific  Note, contained  in the  Notes to  Consolidated
  Financial  Statements of the  Company and its subsidiaries  located in Item 8,
  into the Item number in which it appears.
 
 

year to a maximum of 17 years. CVP has the exclusive license to the U.S.  patent
for  the topical  use of Class  I calcium  channel blockers as  agents to reduce
intraocular pressure in  ocular hypertensive conditions  including glaucoma.  In
addition,  CVP has filed and/or is in  the process of filing additional U.S. and
international patent  applications.  CooperVision  holds  a  patent  on  certain
manufacturing  technologies employed in the production of certain of its contact
lenses.
 
     As indicated in the references to such  products in this Item 1, the  names
of  certain of  TCC's products are  protected by trademark  registrations in the
United States Patent  and Trademark Office  and, in some  instances, in  foreign
trademark  offices as  well. Applications  are pending  for additional trademark
registrations. TCC considers these  trademarks to be  valuable because of  their
contribution to the market identification of its various products.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON CUSTOMERS
 
     At this time, no material portion of TCC's businesses is dependent upon any
one   customer  or  upon  any  one   affiliated  group  of  customers.  However,
approximately 17%  and  22%, respectively,  of  HGA's fiscal  1994  net  patient
revenue was generated by Medicaid and Medicare, respectively.
 
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     No  material portion  of TCC's  businesses is  subject to  renegotiation of
profits or  termination of  contracts or  subcontracts at  the election  of  the
United States government.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Each  of  TCC's  business  segments operates  within  a  highly competitive
environment. Competition in the healthcare  industry revolves around the  search
for  technological and therapeutic innovations  in the prevention, diagnosis and
treatment of illness or disease. TCC competes primarily on the basis of  product
quality, technological benefit, service and reliability, as perceived by medical
professionals.
 
     Healthcare  Products. Numerous companies are engaged in the development and
manufacture of  contact  lenses  and  ophthalmic  pharmaceuticals.  CooperVision
competes primarily on the basis of product quality, service and reputation among
medical  professionals and by  its participation in  specialty niche markets. It
has been, and continues to be, the sponsor of clinical lens studies intended  to
generate  information leading to the improvement of CooperVision's lenses from a
medical point of view.  Major competitors have  greater financial resources  and
larger research and development and sales forces than CooperVision. Furthermore,
many  of  these competitors  offer a  greater  range of  contact lenses,  plus a
variety of other eyecare products,  including lens care products and  ophthalmic
pharmaceuticals,  which gives  them a  competitive advantage  in marketing their
lenses.
 
     In  the  surgical  segment,  competitive  factors  are  technological   and
scientific  advances,  product  quality, price  and  effective  communication of
product information to physicians and hospitals. CooperSurgical believes that it
benefits, in part, from the technological advantages of certain of its  products
and  from the  ongoing development  of new  medical procedures,  which creates a
market for equipment and instruments specifically  tailored for use in such  new
procedures.  CooperSurgical competes by  focusing on distinct  niche markets and
supplying medical personnel working in those markets with equipment, instruments
and disposable  products that  are high  in quality  and that,  with respect  to
certain  procedures, enable a medical practitioner to obtain from one source all
of the equipment, instruments and  disposable products required to perform  such
procedure.  As CooperSurgical develops products to be used in the performance of
new medical  procedures, it  offers  training to  medical professionals  in  the
performance  of  such  procedures.  CooperSurgical  competes  with  a  number of
manufacturers in each of its niche markets, including larger manufacturers  that
have  greater financial and personnel resources  and sell a substantially larger
number of product lines.
 
     Healthcare Services. In most areas in  which HGA operates, there are  other
psychiatric  facilities  that provide  services comparable  to those  offered by
HGA's  facilities.  Some   of  those  facilities   are  owned  by   governmental
organizations,  not-for-profit organizations or  investor-owned companies having
substantially greater resources than HGA and, in some cases, tax-exempt  status.
Psychiatric  facilities  frequently  draw  patients  from  areas  outside  their
immediate locale,  therefore, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities compete  with  both
local  and distant facilities. In  addition, psychiatric facilities also compete
with psychiatric units
 
 

in acute care  hospitals. HGA's  strategy is  to develop  high quality  programs
designed  to  target  specific  disorders  and  to  retain  a  highly  qualified
professional staff.
 
BACKLOG
 
     TCC does not consider backlog to be a material factor in its businesses.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     HGA's psychiatric facilities experience a decline in occupancy rates during
the summer months when school is not in session and during the year-end  holiday
season. No other material portion of TCC's businesses is seasonal.
 
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
 
     Federal,  state and local provisions  regulating the discharge of materials
into  the  environment,  or  otherwise   relating  to  the  protection  of   the
environment,  do  not  currently  have  a  material  effect  upon  TCC's capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
 
WORKING CAPITAL
 
     TCC's  businesses   have  not   required  any   material  working   capital
arrangements  in the past five  years. In light of  the substantial reduction in
TCC's current asset base and the net cash outflow anticipated in connection with
the development of  certain new  products, the Company  has obtained  a line  of
credit  from a commercial lender and is pursuing a variety of other alternatives
to obtain funds. See Item 7  'Management's Discussion and Analysis of  Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Capital Resources and Liquidity.'
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT BUSINESS SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, FOREIGN
OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
     Note  14 sets  forth financial information  with respect  to TCC's business
segments and sales in different geographic areas.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     On October 31, 1994,  TCC and its  subsidiaries employed approximately  970
persons.  In  addition, HGA's  psychiatric  facilities are  staffed  by licensed
physicians who  have  been  admitted  to the  medical  staff  of  an  individual
facility.  Certain of  those physicians are  not employees of  HGA. TCC believes
that its relations with its employees are good.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The following are TCC's principal facilities as of December 31, 1994:
 

 
                                                  (table continued on next page)
 
 

(table continued from previous page)
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) On December 9, 1994, the Company  entered into a sublease pursuant to  which
    it  has subleased to  a third party  approximately 6,000 square  feet of its
    Fort Lee, NJ office space at an  annual base rent commencing at $113,924  in
    year one and increasing to $125,916 in years two through five, the last year
    of  the sublease. The subtenant  has an option to  renew the sublease for an
    additional five years.
 
(2) Outstanding loans, totaling $12,556,000 as of October 31, 1994, were secured
    by these properties.
 
(3) Includes utilities, common area charges and taxes.
 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
 
     The Company  believes its  properties  are suitable  and adequate  for  its
businesses.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The  Company is a  defendant in a  number of legal  actions relating to its
past or  present businesses  in which  plaintiffs are  seeking damages.  In  the
opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, the ultimate disposition
of those actions will not materially affect the Company's financial condition.
 
     The  Company is  named as a  nominal defendant in  a shareholder derivative
action entitled  Harry Lewis  and Gary  Goldberg v.  Gary A.  Singer, Steven  G.
Singer,  Arthur C. Bass, Joseph C. Feghali, Warren J. Keegan, Robert S. Holcombe
and Robert S. Weiss, which was filed on  May 27, 1992 in the Court of  Chancery,
State of Delaware, New Castle County. On May 29, 1992, another plaintiff, Alfred
Schecter,  separately filed  a derivative  complaint in  Delaware Chancery Court
that was essentially identical  to the Lewis and  Goldberg complaint. Lewis  and
Goldberg  later  amended  their  complaint,  and  the  Delaware  Chancery  Court
thereafter consolidated the Lewis and Goldberg and Schecter actions as In re The
Cooper Companies, Inc. Litigation, Consolidated C.A. 12584, and designated Lewis
and Goldberg's amended complaint as the operative complaint (the 'First  Amended
Derivative  Complaint').  The First  Amended  Derivative Complaint  alleges that
certain directors of the Company and Gary A. Singer, as Co-Chairman of the Board
of Directors,  caused or  allowed the  Company to  be a  party to  the  'trading
scheme'  referenced  in the  SEC Complaint  described  below. The  First Amended
Derivative Complaint also alleges that  the defendants violated their  fiduciary
duties  to  the  Company  by not  vigorously  investigating  the  allegations of
securities fraud. The First Amended Derivative Complaint requests that the Court
order the defendants (other than the Company) to pay damages and expenses to the
Company and certain of the defendants to disgorge their profits to the  Company.
On  October  16,  1992,  the  defendants  moved  to  dismiss  the  First Amended
Derivative Complaint on grounds that such
 
 

Complaint fails to comply with Delaware Chancery Court Rule 23.1 and that  Count
III of the First Amended Derivative Complaint fails to state a claim. No further
proceedings  have taken  place. The Company  has been advised  by the individual
directors named as defendants that  they believe they have meritorious  defenses
to  this lawsuit and intend vigorously to  defend against the allegations in the
First Amended  Derivative Complaint.  The parties  have engaged  in  preliminary
settlement  negotiations;  however,  there  can  be  no  assurances  that  these
discussions will be concluded successfully.
 
     The Company was  named as a  nominal defendant in  a purported  shareholder
derivative action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. Gary A. Singer, Steven G. Singer,
Brad  C. Singer, Martin Singer,  John D. Collins II,  Back Bay Capital, Inc., G.
Albert Griggs, Jr.,  John and  Jane Does 1-10  and The  Cooper Companies,  Inc.,
which  was filed on May 26, 1992 in the  Supreme Court of the State of New York,
County of  New York.  The plaintiff,  Bruce  D. Sturman,  a former  officer  and
director  of the  Company, alleged  that Gary A.  Singer, as  Co-Chairman of the
Board of Directors, and various members of the Singer family caused the  Company
to  make improper payments to alleged third-party co-conspirators as part of the
'trading scheme'  that was  the  subject of  the  SEC Complaint.  The  complaint
requested  that the Court order  the defendants (other than  the Company) to pay
damages and expenses to the Company, including reimbursement of payments made by
the Company  to  the co-conspirators,  and  to  disgorge their  profits  to  the
Company.  Pursuant to its decision  and order, filed August  17, 1993, the Court
dismissed this action under  New York Civil Practice  Rule 327(a). On  September
22,  1993, the plaintiff filed  a Notice of Appeal, and  the appeal was heard by
the Appellate Division in early January  1995; no decision has been rendered  by
the Appellate Court to date.
 
     On  November  10,  1992, the  SEC  filed  a civil  Complaint  for Permanent
Injunction and Other Equitable Relief (the 'SEC Complaint') in the United States
District Court for the Southern District  of New York against the Company,  Gary
A.  Singer (a former Co-Chairman of the  Board of the Company), Steven G. Singer
(the Company's former Executive Vice  President and Chief Operating Officer  and
Gary  Singer's brother), and,  as relief defendants,  certain persons related to
Gary and Steven Singer and certain  entities in which they and/or those  related
persons  have an interest. The  SEC Complaint alleged that  the Company and Gary
and Steven Singer violated various provisions of the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934,  as  amended (the  'Securities Exchange  Act'),  including certain  of its
antifraud and periodic reporting provisions, and aided and abetted violations of
the Investment Company Act, and the Investment Advisers Act, in connection  with
a  'trading  scheme' to  'frontrun' high  yield bond  purchases by  the Keystone
Custodian Funds,  Inc., a  group  of mutual  funds.  The SEC  Complaint  further
alleged,  among  other  things, federal  securities  law violations  (i)  by the
Company and  Gary Singer  in  connection with  an  alleged manipulation  of  the
trading price of the Company's 10 5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset Debentures
due  2005 (the 'Debentures') to avoid  an interest rate reset allegedly required
on June 15, 1991 under the terms of the Indenture governing the Debentures, (ii)
by Gary Singer in allegedly transferring  profits on trades of high yield  bonds
from  the  Company  to  members  of his  family  and  failing  to  disclose such
transactions to the  Company and  (iii) by the  Company in  failing to  disclose
publicly  on a timely basis such transactions  by Gary Singer. The SEC Complaint
asked that the Company and Gary  and Steven Singer be enjoined permanently  from
violating  the antifraud, periodic reporting and other provisions of the federal
securities laws, that they disgorge the amounts of the alleged profits  received
by  them pursuant to the alleged frauds  (stated in the SEC's Litigation Release
No. 13432  announcing the  filing  of the  SEC  Complaint as  being  $1,296,406,
$2,323,180  and $174,705, respectively),  plus interest, and  that they each pay
appropriate civil  monetary  penalties. The  SEC  Complaint also  sought  orders
permanently  prohibiting  Gary and  Steven Singer  from  serving as  officers or
directors of  any public  company and  disgorgement from  certain Singer  family
members  and entities  of amounts representing  the alleged  profits received by
such defendants pursuant to  the alleged frauds. On  December 20, 1994, a  Final
Judgment  (on  Consent) of  Permanent Injunction  and  Other Relief  was entered
settling the SEC Complaint with respect  to the Company. The principal terms  of
the  settlement involve the Company's agreement to permanent injunctions against
violation of Sections 10(b),  13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B)  and 14(a) of  the
Securities  Exchange Act from  aiding and abetting violations  of Section 204 of
the Investment Advisers  Act of  1940, and  from employing  Gary Singer,  Steven
Singer  and/or any of their relatives. The Company agreed to the disgorgement of
$1,621,474 and the  payment of a  civil penalty of  $1,150,000. The Company  had
already  disgorged  $1,310,166  in connection  with  the sentence  imposed  in a
related criminal action involving the
 
 

'frontrunning' arrangement; the balance of the disgorgement was paid in January,
1995. The civil penalty imposed by the SEC is offset by the larger fine to which
the Company was sentenced in the criminal action.
 
     In two  virtually identical  actions, Frank  H. Cobb,  Inc. v.  The  Cooper
Companies,  Inc., et al., and  Arthur J. Korf v.  The Cooper Companies, Inc., et
al., class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court  for
the  Southern  District of  New York  in  August 1989,  against the  Company and
certain individuals who served as officers and/or directors of the Company after
June 1987.  In their  Fourth  Amended Complaint  filed  in September  1992,  the
plaintiffs  allege that they are bringing the actions on their own behalf and as
class actions on behalf of  a class consisting of  all persons who purchased  or
otherwise  acquired shares of  the Company's common stock  during the period May
26, 1988 through February 13, 1989. The amended complaints seek an  undetermined
amount of compensatory damages jointly and severally against all defendants. The
complaints,   as  amended,  allege  that   the  defendants  knew  or  recklessly
disregarded and  failed to  disclose to  the investing  public material  adverse
information about the Company. Defendants are accused of having allegedly failed
to  disclose,  or  delayed  in  disclosing, among  other  things:  (a)  that the
allegedly real reason the Company announced on May 26, 1988 that it was dropping
a proposed  merger  with  Cooper  Development  Company,  Inc.  was  because  the
Company's banks were opposed to the merger; (b) that the proposed sale of Cooper
Technicon,  Inc., a  former subsidiary  of the  Company, was  not pursuant  to a
definitive sales agreement but merely an  option; (c) that such option  required
the  approval of the Company's  debentureholders and preferred stockholders; (d)
that the approval of such sale  by the Company's debentureholders and  preferred
stockholders  would not have been  forthcoming absent extraordinary expenditures
by the Company;  and (e)  that the purchase  agreement between  the Company  and
Miles,  Inc.  for  the  sale  of  Cooper  Technicon,  Inc.  included substantial
penalties to be  paid by  the Company  if the  sale was  not consummated  within
certain time limits and that the sale could not be consummated within those time
limits. The amended complaints further allege that the defendants are liable for
having  violated Section 10(b)  of the Securities Exchange  Act and Rule 10(b)-5
thereunder and having engaged in common law fraud. Based on management's current
knowledge of  the facts  and  circumstances surrounding  the events  alleged  by
plaintiffs  as giving  rise to  their claims, the  Company believes  that it has
meritorious defenses to  these lawsuits.  The Company has  reached a  settlement
with  counsel for the  class plaintiffs, which settlement  will have no material
impact on the Company's  financial condition. In December  1994, the Court  gave
preliminary  approval to the settlement, ordered  notice to be given to putative
class members,  and  set  a hearing  for  April  7, 1995  to  consider  possible
objections  to the  settlement. Therefore,  there can  be no  assurance that the
proposed settlement will ultimately  end the litigation. In  the event the  case
proceeds  to trial, the Company intends  to vigorously defend itself against the
allegations in the amended complaint.
 
     Under an agreement dated July 11,  1985, as amended (the 'HMG  Agreement'),
Hampton  Medical Group, P.A. ('HMG'), which  is not affiliated with the Company,
contracted to provide clinical and  clinical administrative services at  Hampton
Hospital,  the  primary  facility operated  by  HGNJ,  a subsidiary  of  HGA. On
November 29, 1993 and February 1, 1994, HGNJ delivered notices to HMG  asserting
that  HMG had defaulted under the HMG Agreement. The first notice was based upon
the failure of HMG to provide to HGNJ records needed to analyze information HGNJ
had received indicating  that HMG  allegedly had engaged  in fraudulent  billing
practices;  the second  was based  upon information  uncovered in  the review of
those  records,  when  they  were  ultimately  produced,  and  other   available
information.  At the request of  HMG, a New York  state court enjoined HGNJ from
terminating the HMG  Agreement based  upon the  initial notice  and ordered  the
parties  (on consent)  to arbitrate  whether HMG  had defaulted.  On February 2,
1994, HMG  commenced an  arbitration in  New York,  New York,  entitled  Hampton
Medical Group, P.A. and Hospital Group of New Jersey, P.A. (American Arbitration
Association). In the arbitration, HMG contests the alleged default under the HMG
Agreement  and HGNJ's allegations  regarding fraudulent conduct,  and advances a
claim against  HGNJ that  HMG has  the right  to provide  clinical and  clinical
administrative  services at all HGNJ-owned facilities in New Jersey (which would
include, HMG contends,  the outpatient clinics  in Marlton and  Toms River,  New
Jersey,  and the Hampton Academy, at  which certain non-HMG physicians have been
employed at various times since the  HMG Agreement was executed), regardless  of
whether  these facilities are connected to  Hampton Hospital. HMG maintains that
it is entitled to an unspecified
 
 

amount of damages for professional fees it would have received for the  clinical
services  that were provided by non-HMG physicians at the outpatient facilities.
HGNJ has responded to this claim asserting, among other things, (1) that HMG has
no contractual right to provide services  at those facilities, (2) that HMG  has
waived  or lost any such right, if it  ever had one, and (3) that the assertions
of billing fraud are a defense to any such right.
 
     As HGNJ's knowledge of HMG's billing practices developed, HGNJ notified the
authorities and, subsequently, Blue  Cross and Blue Shield  of New Jersey,  Inc.
('Blue  Cross'), the largest of the third  party payors from which HGNJ received
payment for its hospital services from 1988 through 1994.
 
     During December 1994,  Blue Cross  informed HGNJ that  it had  investigated
matters  at  Hampton Hospital,  that it  had formed  the view  that it  had been
overcharged as a result of those matters, including fraudulent practices of  HMG
which  resulted in increased hospital bills  to Blue Cross subscribers, and that
it intended promptly to  commence a lawsuit  to recover amounts  inappropriately
charged.  On December 30, 1994, Blue Cross and HGNJ entered into an agreement to
settle all claims against Hampton Hospital  on behalf of Blue Cross  subscribers
and  certain  other  subscribers for  whom  Blue Cross  administers  claims. The
settlement includes  a cash  payment,  over time,  by  HGNJ, offset  by  certain
amounts  owed by  Blue Cross to  HGNJ. On the  same day, Blue  Cross commenced a
lawsuit against HMG and  certain related entities  and individuals unrelated  to
HGNJ  or  its  affiliates  alleging,  among  other  things,  fraudulent  billing
practices. HGNJ is cooperating with Blue  Cross in Blue Cross' investigation  of
HMG.  HGNJ has  also received a  request for  information from the  State of New
Jersey Department of  Insurance with  respect to a  related investigation,  with
which HGNJ is also cooperating.
 
     HGNJ is continuing to seek the termination of the HMG Agreement and intends
to  seek recovery from HMG for any losses, expenses or other damages HGNJ incurs
by reason of  HMG's conduct, including  amounts paid or  offset pursuant to  the
Blue  Cross settlement and any damages that may result from any future claims by
other third  party payors  or others  arising out  of the  billing practices  at
Hampton  Hospital, which claims  could, in the  aggregate, be material; however,
management of the  Company, after  consultation with counsel,  does not  believe
that the outcome of such claims (should any be brought) would, in the aggregate,
have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  financial  condition. In
addition, HGA is seeking  to recover damages  from Progressions Health  Systems,
Inc.,  the  successor  to  the  former owner  of  HGA,  based  upon  breaches of
representations and  warranties in  the purchase  agreement or  other rights  of
indemnification thereunder. There can be no assurance, however, that HGA will be
able  to recover the amount of any or  all such losses, expenses or damages from
HMG or Progressions Health Systems, Inc.
 
     On September 2, 1993, a patent infringement complaint was filed against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada captioned
Steven P. Shearing v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. On or about that same day,  the
plaintiff  filed twelve additional complaints,  accusing at least fourteen other
defendants of infringing  the same patent.  The patent in  these suits covers  a
specific  method of implanting an intraocular  lens into the eye. Until February
1989, the Company  manufactured intraocular lenses  and ophthalmic  instruments,
but  did not engage in  the implantation of such  lenses. Subsequent to February
1989, the Company  was not  involved in the  manufacture, marketing  or sale  of
intraocular  lenses.  On  April  4,  1994,  all  of  Shearing's  complaints were
dismissed; thereafter, Shearing successfully moved for leave to file an  amended
complaint.  The Company  denies the  material allegations  of Shearing's amended
complaint. The parties  have executed a  settlement agreement effective  January
24, 1995, pursuant to which the litigation will be dismissed. The settlement has
no material impact on the Company's financial condition.
 
     On  March 30,  1994, Envirodyne Industries,  Inc. filed  a lawsuit entitled
Envirodyne Industries, Inc.  v. Connecticut Mutual  Life Insurance Company,  The
Cooper   Companies,  Inc.,  Presidential  Life   Insurance  Company,  M  D  Sass
re/Enterprise Partners L.P.  and Gruss Partners,  in the Circuit  Court of  Cook
County, Illinois against the Company, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company,
Presidential  Life Insurance Company,  M D Sass  Re/Enterprise Partners L.P. and
Gruss Partners.  The  complaint  alleged  that  defendants,  former  holders  of
Envirodyne  subordinated  promissory  notes  (the  '13  1/2%  Notes'),  filed an
involuntary bankruptcy petition  against Envirodyne without  complying with  the
indenture  issued in connection with the 13  1/2% Notes and that the improvident
filing of the involuntary bankruptcy petition allegedly damaged Envirodyne in an
amount in excess of $100 million. Defendants removed the
 
 

case to the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois
and, on May 20, 1994, moved to  dismiss the complaint, which motion was  granted
and  the case was dismissed  in December 1994. No appeal  has been taken and the
time to file a notice of appeal has expired.
 
     The Company was named in an action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and Does 1-100, Inclusive, first brought on July 24, 1992 in the
Superior  Court  of the  State of  California, Los  Angeles County.  Mr. Sturman
alleged that his  suspension from his  position as Co-Chairman  of the Board  of
Directors  constituted,  among  other  things,  an  anticipatory  breach  of his
employment agreement.  On  May 14,  1993,  Mr.  Sturman filed  a  First  Amended
Complaint  in the Superior Court of the  State of California, County of Alameda,
Eastern  Division,  the  jurisdiction  to  which  the  original  case  had  been
transferred.  In  the  Amended  Complaint, Mr.  Sturman  alleged  that  by first
suspending and  then  terminating him  from  his position  as  Co-Chairman,  the
Company breached his employment agreement, violated provisions of the California
Labor  Code, wrongfully terminated  him in violation  of public policy, breached
its implied covenant of  good faith and fair  dealing, defamed him, invaded  his
privacy  and  intentionally  inflicted  emotional  distress,  and  was otherwise
fraudulent, deceitful  and negligent.  After  engaging in  prolonged  settlement
negotiations,  a settlement was reached,  and on December 2,  1994, the case was
dismissed with prejudice. The settlement has no material impact on the Company's
financial condition.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     The 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on September 13, 1994.
 
     Seven individuals  were nominated  to serve  as directors  of the  Company.
Information with respect to votes cast for or withheld from such nominees is set
forth below:
 

 
     Stockholders were also asked to ratify the appointment of KPMG Peat Marwick
LLP  as independent certified public accountants  for the Company for the fiscal
year which ended October 31,  1994. A total of  27,913,850 shares were voted  in
favor  of  the ratification,  99,152 shares  were voted  against it  and 156,497
shares abstained.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The Company's common stock is traded  on The New York Stock Exchange,  Inc.
and  the Pacific Stock  Exchange Incorporated. No cash  dividends were paid with
respect to the common stock in fiscal 1994 or 1993.
 
     The  Indenture,  dated  as  of  March  1,  1985,  governing  the  Company's
Debentures,  as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 29,
1989 and the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 6, 1994, and  the
Indenture  dated  as  of January  6,  1994  governing the  Company's  10% Senior
Subordinated Secured Notes due  2003 (collectively, the 'Indentures'),  prohibit
the  payment  of cash  dividends on  the  Company's common  stock unless  (i) no
defaults exist or would exist under the Indentures, (ii) the Company's Cash Flow
Coverage Ratio (as defined in the  Indentures) for the most recently ended  four
full  fiscal quarters has been at least 1.5  to 1, and (iii) such cash dividend,
together with the aggregate of all other Restricted Payments (as defined in  the
Indentures),  is less than the sum of 50% of the Company's cumulative net income
plus the proceeds of certain sales of the Company's or its subsidiaries' capital
stock   subsequent   to    February   1,    1994.   The    Company   does    not
 
 

anticipate,  in the foreseeable future, being able to satisfy the foregoing test
and, therefore, does  not anticipate  being able to  pay cash  dividends on  its
common stock in the foreseeable future.
 
     The  ability of the Company to declare and pay dividends is also subject to
restrictions set forth in  the Delaware General  Corporation Law (the  'Delaware
GCL').  As a general  rule, a Delaware  corporation may pay  dividends under the
Delaware GCL either out of  its 'surplus,' as defined  in the Delaware GCL,  or,
subject  to certain exceptions,  out of its  net profits for  the fiscal year in
which the dividend  is declared and/or  the preceding fiscal  year. Even if  the
Company  were to satisfy the  requirements in the Indentures  for the payment of
cash dividends on the Company's common stock, the Company's ability to pay  cash
dividends will depend upon whether the Company satisfies the requirements of the
Delaware GCL at the time any such proposed dividend is declared.
 
     Other information called for by this Item is set forth in Note 15.
 








ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
                        SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
                               FINANCIAL POSITION
 

 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.
 
     References  to  Note  numbers  herein  are  references  to  the  'Notes  to
Consolidated Financial  Statements' of  the Company  located in  Item 8  herein.
Reference is also made to Part I, Item 1 'Business' herein.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES & LIQUIDITY
 
     On  January 6,  1994, the Company  completed an Exchange  Offer and Consent
Solicitation, the terms of which are described in Note 9, pursuant to which  the
Company  issued  approximately  $22,000,000 aggregate  principal  amount  of 10%
Senior Subordinated Secured Notes due 2003 (the 'Notes') and paid  approximately
$4,350,000 in cash in exchange for approximately $30,000,000 aggregate principal
amount  of its 10  5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset  Debentures due 2005 (the
'Debentures'). Pursuant  to the  Exchange Offer  and Consent  Solicitation,  the
Company amended the indenture to the Debentures (the 'Indenture') and obtained a
waiver of any defaults occurring under the Indenture through January 6, 1994.
 
     As  previously reported,  the Company was  convicted of six  counts of mail
fraud and  one  count  of wire  fraud  based  upon the  conduct  of  its  former
Co-Chairman,  Gary Singer. The Company was sentenced  on July 15, 1994, at which
time it was  ordered to make  restitution to Keystone  Custodian Funds, Inc.  of
$1,310,166,  which restitution was made in August 1994. In addition, the Company
was ordered to pay a noninterest bearing  fine over the next three years in  the
amount of $1,831,568. On December 12, 1994, the Company and the SEC entered into
a  settlement with respect to  the SEC enforcement action  described in Note 16,
which became effective  upon entry  of the Order  of Dismissal  on December  20,
1994.  The principal financial terms of the settlement involved the disgorgement
of $1,621,474  (which amount  was reduced  by the  $1,310,166 paid  to  Keystone
Custodian Funds) and the payment of a civil penalty in the amount of $1,150,000.
The  Company paid $311,308 to the SEC  on January 19, 1995, representing payment
in full of the balance of the disgorgement. The civil penalty, which is  smaller
than the criminal fine, is offset by the fine to which the Company was sentenced
in the criminal action.
 
     The Company reported a net loss of $4,786,000 in fiscal 1994, due, in large
part, to the incurrence of legal fees and other costs associated with the issues
discussed  in  the  preceding  two  paragraphs.  This  net  loss,  together with
attendant requirements to disburse cash,  resulted in a $6,231,000 reduction  in
liquid  assets  and  moved the  Company's  stockholders' equity  into  a deficit
position. The Company currently anticipates that,  at least for fiscal 1995,  it
is  likely  to  continue experiencing  negative  cash flows,  since  fiscal 1995
payments required pursuant to certain litigation settlement agreements and other
costs related to disputes which could be incurred (see Note 16 and Part I,  Item
3  'Legal Proceedings'), together  with funds to be  used for strategic research
projects, are  likely  to  exceed  the positive  cash  flows  generated  by  the
Company's  established  operating  businesses.  The  foregoing  notwithstanding,
management believes  that  the successful  settlement  of certain  disputes  and
litigations,  the  successful  completion  of  the  Exchange  Offer  and Consent
Solicitation, the implementation of other cost-cutting programs, the performance
of its established businesses,  in concert with  the financing discussed  below,
should  result  in the  Company  being in  a position  to  satisfy its  short to
mid-term cash requirements.
 
     At present, the  Company's two most  important strategic research  projects
are  CVP's CalOptic'tm' (see 'Business,  CooperVision Pharmaceuticals' in Item 1
above) and CSI's thermal endometrial ablation technology. In 1994, CSI signed an
agreement with InnerDyne, Inc. covering the development and commercialization of
InnerDyne's  proprietary   thermal   ablation   technology   for   gynecological
applications  such as the  control of excessive  uterine bleeding. Cash payments
made by CSI in fiscal 1994 were approximately $214,000. Additional funds in  the
amount  of approximately $70,000  per month on  average are being  advanced on a
monthly basis. Pursuant to the terms of  the agreement, CSI also has an  option,
in  its sole  discretion, to purchase  for $4,000,000 plus  future royalties the
exclusive world-wide rights to commercialize this technology. In addition, given
that the project is still in the exploratory stage, CSI negotiated the right  to
terminate the agreement at any time with 30 days notice.
 
     To  augment  the  Company's internal  cash  flows, in  September  1994, CVI
entered into a credit agreement with a commercial lender providing for  advances
of up to $8,000,000 (see Note 9). This credit
 
 

agreement,  together with the approximate $10,000,000 in cash the Company had on
hand as of October 31, 1994, affords the Company flexibility in planning  future
cash  requirements, and  assures short  to mid-term  financing of  its strategic
research projects.  The Company  is also  exploring other  potential sources  of
cash,  including sales and leasebacks, factoring, out-licensing rights to one or
more of  its  strategic research  projects  outside  of North  America  and  new
issuances of stock.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Comparison  of each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31,
1994:
 
NET SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net service revenue consists of the following:
 

 
     Net patient revenue by major providers was as follows:
 

 
- ------------
*  From May 29, 1992
 
NET PATIENT REVENUE
 
     Net patient revenue decreased by $672,000 or 2% in 1994. Revenues have been
pressured by the current  industry trend towards  increased managed care,  which
results  in  decreased daily  rates  and declines  in  average lengths  of stay.
Management is endeavoring to mitigate  those pressures by increasing the  number
of  admissions to its hospitals, and by providing outpatient and other ancillary
services outside of its hospitals.
 
MANAGEMENT FEES
 
     On May 29, 1992, PSG Management,  Inc. ('PSG Management'), a subsidiary  of
the   Company,  entered  into  a  three-year  management  agreement  with  three
indirectly owned  subsidiaries  of  Nu-Med, Inc.  ('Nu-Med'),  under  which  PSG
Management  is managing three additional  hospitals owned by those subsidiaries,
having a total of  220 licensed beds. PSG  Management is receiving a  management
fee of $166,667 per month under the agreement, which expires by its terms in May
1995.
 
 

NET SALES OF PRODUCTS
 
     The  following table summarizes the increases and decreases in net sales of
products of the Company's CVI and CSI business units over the three-year period.
Sales generated by the Company's CVP unit, a start-up business, were $394,000 in
1994, $570,000 in 1993 and $46,000 in 1992.

 
1994 vs. 1993
 
     The  increase  in  CVI  net  sales  is  primarily  due  to  CoastVision,  a
manufacturer  of custom toric contact lenses for use by patients with astigmatic
vision, being included  in fiscal 1993  results for only  seven months, as  this
company  was acquired on April  1, 1993. Also the  trend established in 1992 and
1993 continued in 1994,  which reflects CVI's sales  mix shifting towards  daily
wear  and frequent replacement products, as well as specialty products, and away
from extended wear  products. The  Company expects  this trend  to continue  and
considers  itself to  be well  positioned to  compete successfully  in specialty
niches of the contact lens market,  particularly with its Preference'r' line  of
frequent replacement lenses and its line of custom toric lenses.
 
     Net  sales of  CSI continued  to decline  primarily due  to slower domestic
sales of its capital equipment, including surgical systems launched in 1992  for
use in the loop electrosurgical excision procedure, which is used diagnostically
and  operatively in  the treatment of  cervical cancer and  other indications in
gynecology. This  decline  was  partially  offset  by  increased  sales  in  the
international  arena. CSI is continuing to  direct its sales efforts towards the
gynecology market  to take  advantage of  the  lower cost  to service  a  highly
focused  market  niche. CSI's  products  are subject  to  substantial government
regulation and to competition from a large number of competitors.
 
1993 vs. 1992
 
     Net sales of CVI increased primarily  due to the April 1, 1993  acquisition
of CoastVision.
 
     The  decline in net sales  of CSI was primarily due  to slower sales of its
capital equipment, as noted above.
 
     Consolidated net sales  have grown 8%  per year  for both 1994  v. 1993  v.
1992.
 
COST OF SERVICES PROVIDED
 
     Cost of services provided represents all of the costs (other than financing
costs)  incurred  by  HGA in  generating  net  service revenue.  The  results of
subtracting cost of services provided from  net service revenue is an  operating
profit  of $3,572,000 or 8% of net service  revenue in 1994, $2,529,000 or 6% of
net service revenue  in 1993 and  $2,053,000 or  11% of net  service revenue  in
1992.  The 1994 increased percentage of  operating profit over 1993 is primarily
attributable  to  reduced  service  costs.  The  1993  decreased  percentage  of
operating  profit is primarily attributable to a lower number of patient days at
the hospitals owned by HGA, exacerbated by a deterioration of payor mix. Also in
1993, HGA incurred  non-recurring charges of  approximately $360,000  associated
with severance and approximately $400,000 to write down certain receivables.
 
 

COST OF PRODUCTS SOLD
 
     Gross  profit  (net sales  of products  less  cost of  products sold)  as a
percentage of net sales of products ('margin') was as follows:
 

 
1994 vs. 1993
 
     Margin for  CVI  has  increased  due to  the  inclusion  of  higher  margin
CoastVision  products  for a  full year  and also  reduced cost  on manufactured
products as a result  of higher production volumes.  The margin decrease at  CSI
primarily relates to increased volume of lower margin international sales.
 
1993 vs. 1992
 
     Margin  for  CVI  increased  due  to  the  realization  of  efficiencies in
manufacturing as well as the impact  of cost reduction measures associated  with
downsizing.  Also, the inclusion of  higher margin CoastVision products resulted
in a favorable product mix. The margin decrease at CSI reflected increased sales
of endoscopic products  used in  laparoscopic surgical procedures  and sales  to
international  distributors, each  of which  generated lower  margins than CSI's
other products.  CSI  also  incurred an  inventory  writedown  of  approximately
$450,000 in 1993.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE
 
     Research  and  development expense  was $4,407,000  or 9%  of net  sales of
products in 1994 compared to  $3,209,000 or 7% in 1993  and $3,267,000 or 7%  in
1992.
 
     The increase in 1994 is primarily attributable to the increased development
activity  related  to CalOptic'tm'.  The decrease  in  1993 was  attributable to
certain declines in research and development project expenses in the CVI and CSI
business units, net of increased development activity at CVP.
 
     CVP accounted for 63%, 51% and 40% of consolidated research and development
expense in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
 
     On August  25,  1994,  CSI  reported  the  signing  of  an  agreement  with
InnerDyne,  Inc. covering  the development and  commercialization of InnerDyne's
proprietary thermal ablation technology for gynecological applications, such  as
the  control of  excessive uterine  bleeding. The  Company presently  intends to
continue to fund the ongoing development of strategic projects in  ophthalmology
and gynecology.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE
 
     The  Company's  selling,  general  and  administrative  expense  ('SGA') by
business unit and corporate was as follows:
 

 
     The decrease in 1994 vs. 1993 in Corporate/Other SGA reflects the impact on
legal costs  of  an  agreement  reached  on  September  30,  1993  with  Medical
Engineering Corporation and its parent,
 
 

Bristol-Myers  Squibb Company (the 'MEC Agreement'), which limited the Company's
liability for breast implant litigation. This reduction, coupled with reductions
in other areas, resulted in a 57% reduction in Corporate/Other SGA. The 1993 vs.
1992 increase  in  Corporate/Other  SGA reflects  increases  in  legal  expenses
associated  with then  ongoing litigation,  which have  outweighed reductions in
other areas:
 

 
     SGA for CVI  increased by 2%  and 9% in  1994 vs. 1993  and 1993 vs.  1992,
respectively,  due to  the inclusion  of SGA  of CoastVision,  which the Company
acquired on April 1, 1993. As a  percent of sales, however, CVI's SGA  decreased
in 1994 to 36% from 42% in 1993, and from 44% in 1992, reflecting cost synergies
effected as a result of merging CoastVision's operations into CVI.
 
     The 1994 decrease at CSI reflects savings generated by the consolidation of
CSI facilities, and reductions in personnel. The 1993 increases at CSI reflected
expanding  CSI business, both by internal  growth and acquisition, much of which
reflected the Company's expansion into various laparoscopic procedures.
 
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
 
     In 1994, the Company recorded the following items related to settlement  of
disputes:
 
           A  credit of  $850,000 following receipt  of funds by  the Company to
           settle certain  claims made  by the  Company associated  with a  real
           estate transaction.
 
           A  charge of  $5,800,000 which  represents the  Company's estimate of
           costs required  to settle  certain  disputes and  other  litigations,
           including  $3,450,000 associated with the criminal conviction and SEC
           enforcement action described in Note 16.
 
     The charge  of  $6,350,000 in  1993  is  comprised of  $4,850,000  paid  in
connection  with  the settlement  reached between  the  Company and  Cooper Life
Sciences, Inc. ('CLS') (see Note 13), and $1,500,000 for certain other disputes.
 
     In 1992 the Company recorded a charge for settlement of disputes  comprised
of:  1) a $650,000 charge related to a transaction with CLS, 2) a payment to Mr.
Frederick R. Adler,  a former  director of  the Company  and 3)  a provision  to
settle several other lawsuits and disputes.
 
DEBT RESTRUCTURING COSTS
 
     The  $2,131,000 charge for  debt restructuring costs  in 1993 reflected the
Company's estimate of transaction costs  associated with the Exchange Offer  and
Solicitation  (see Note  9). An  additional charge  of $340,000  was required in
1994. These costs include amounts paid to the Company's attorneys,  accountants,
financial advisor, printer's fees, fees of the financial advisor to the informal
committee  of  holders  of  Debentures  and  its  attorneys,  and  fees  of  the
Information Agent and the Exchange Agent.
 
COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH RESTRUCTURING OPERATIONS
 
     In  1993,  the  Company  recorded  $451,000  of  restructuring  costs   for
consolidation of CSI facilities and related reorganization and relocation costs.
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization  of intangibles  was $843,000  in 1994,  $772,000 in  1993 and
$742,000 in 1992. The changes in each year reflect acquisitions and divestitures
during the three-year period (see Note 2).
 
 

INVESTMENT INCOME (LOSS), NET
 
     Investment income,  net  includes  interest income  of  $377,000  in  1994,
$2,439,000  in 1993 and $6,960,000 in 1992.  The decrease in interest income for
each year reflects the Company's use of cash for the acquisition of  CoastVision
on  April 1, 1993 and HGA on May 29, 1992 (see Note 2), to purchase a portion of
its Debentures, operating  cash use,  declining interest rates  during 1992  and
1993  and a shift  in investment strategy  towards more conservative instruments
with lower risk and correspondingly  lower returns. Also included in  investment
income,  net  are  net  realized and  unrealized  gains  (losses)  in marketable
securities and  investments  of  ($530,000)  in 1994,  ($824,000)  in  1993  and
$7,294,000 in 1992.
 
GAIN ON SALE OF ASSETS AND BUSINESSES, NET
 
     In 1994, the Company sold two parcels of land for cash and notes, for a net
gain  of $134,000, and its  EYEscrub'tm' trademark in Canada,  for a net gain of
$80,000. In 1993, the Company sold its EYEscrub'tm' product line for $1,400,000,
which sale  resulted in  a $620,000  gain.  In 1992,  the Company  assigned  its
license  to manufacture, have manufactured,  sell, distribute and market certain
intraocular lens  products and  disposed  of certain  other related  rights  and
assets. Total cash consideration received by the Company for such assignment was
approximately $5,200,000 which resulted in a gain of $1,030,000.
 
OTHER INCOME, NET
 
     Other  income, net was  $42,000 in 1994,  $174,000 in 1993  and $772,000 in
1992. Other income, net  in 1994 includes foreign  exchange gains of $53,000  on
transactions  denominated in  currencies other  than the  local currency  of the
business unit. Other income in  1993 primarily included consent fees,  extension
fees  and collection fees related to the Company's temporary investment activity
and rental income  from the Company's  real estate ventures,  all of which  were
partially  offset  by  a  foreign  exchange loss  realized  on  the  sale  of an
investment denominated in  other than U.S.  dollars. Other income,  net in  1992
primarily  reflected  the  receipt by  the  Company of  $1,500,000  for business
interruption insurance related to a fire at  a CVI facility in 1991 offset by  a
foreign exchange loss resulting from an unhedged liability.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
 
     Interest  expense was $4,533,000 in 1994, $6,129,000 in 1993 and $6,697,000
in 1992.  The decrease  in  interest expense  in 1994  v.  1993 relates  to:  1)
reduction  of  outstanding  debt,  2)  reduced  interest  rate  on approximately
$22,000,000 of outstanding debt and 3) amortization of deferred premium, all  as
a result of the Exchange Offer and Consent Solicitation (see Note 9) and reduced
HGA  debt. The 1993 v. 1992 decline was primarily due to the Company's purchases
of its Debentures (see Note 9). Partially offsetting the reduction of  Debenture
interest  expense was additional interest expense related to the assumed debt of
HGA. (See Note 2.)
 
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     Details with regard to the Company's provision for income taxes for each of
the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 1994 are set out in Note 8.
The 1994 provision for state income  and franchise taxes of $400,000 was  offset
by  a reversal of  $5,000,000 of tax  accruals no longer  required following the
successful resolution  of certain  tax issues.  The 1993  provision of  $417,000
related  entirely to  state income  and franchise  taxes. The  1992 provision of
$100,000 related to state income and  franchise taxes, a federal assessment  and
an  offsetting reduction of  liabilities for estimated  income taxes relating to
international operations which were no longer necessary.
 
LOSS ON SALE OF DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAXES
 
     A charge of $14,000,000  in 1993 represented an  increase to the  Company's
accrual  for contingent  liabilities associated  with breast  implant litigation
involving the  plastic and  reconstructive surgical  division of  the  Company's
former  Cooper Surgical business  segment ('Surgical') which  was sold in fiscal
1989 (the 'Breast  Implant Accrual'). (See  Note 3.) In  1993, the Company  also
recorded  a  reversal of  $343,000 of  accruals no  longer necessary  related to
another discontinued business.
 
 

     In 1992  the  Company  recorded  a charge  of  $9,300,000  to  discontinued
operations,  of which $7,000,000 represented an increase to the Company's Breast
Implant Accrual. The balance of the charge reflected a $2,000,000 settlement  of
a  dispute  involving  the Company's  former  Surgical business  segment,  and a
$300,000 adjustment  to the  loss on  the sale  of the  Company's former  Cooper
Technicon business segment.
 
     No  tax benefit has been applied against  the above figures, as the Company
was not profitable in either year.
 
EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS
 
     Extraordinary  items  represent  extraordinary   gains  on  the   Company's
purchases of a portion of its Debentures:
 

 
INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
 
     Inflation  has had  little effect on  the Company's operations  in the last
three years.
 
IMPACT OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ISSUED BUT NOT ADOPTED
 
     In December 1992,  the Financial  Accounting Standards  Board (the  'FASB')
issued   Statement  of  Financial  Accounting   Standards  (a  'FAS')  No.  112,
'Employers'  Accounting  for  Postemployment  Benefits'  ('FAS  112').  FAS  112
establishes accounting standards for employers who provide benefits to former or
inactive  employees  after  employment  but  before  retirement ('postemployment
benefits'). Postemployment benefits include those benefits provided to former or
inactive employees, their beneficiaries, and covered dependents. Those  benefits
include,  but are not limited to, salary continuation, supplemental unemployment
benefits, severance  benefits, disability-related  benefits (including  workers'
compensation), job training and counseling, and continuation of benefits such as
healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage.
 
     FAS  112 is effective  for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 1993.
Earlier application is encouraged. Previously issued financial statements  shall
not  be restated. The Company  intends to adopt FAS  112 when required, and does
not believe that such adoption will  have a material impact on its  consolidated
financial statements.
 
 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.:
 
     We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of The Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries as of October 31, 1994 and 1993 and the related
consolidated statements of operations,  stockholders' equity (deficit) and  cash
flows  for each of the years in the three-year period ended October 31, 1994. In
connection with our  audits of  the consolidated financial  statements, we  also
have  audited  financial statement  schedules III  and VIII.  These consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is  to express an opinion on  these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our
audits.
 
     We  conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In  our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects,  the financial position of The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries at October 31, 1994 and 1993 and the results of
their  operations and their cash  flows for each of  the years in the three-year
period ended October 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted  accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole,  present  fairly, in  all material  respects,  the information  set forth
therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
San Francisco, California
January 11, 1995
 




ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
            STATEMENT OF CONSOLIDATED STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
     In   January  1994  the  Company  issued  $22,000,000  of  Notes  and  paid
approximately $4,350,000 in  cash (exclusive of  transaction costs) in  exchange
for approximately $30,000,000 of Debentures. See Note 9.
 
     During  1993 and  1992, the  Company acquired  businesses and  entered into
certain  licensing  and  distribution  agreements.  In  connection  with   these
acquisitions and agreements the Company assumed liabilities as follows:
 

 
     On  June 12, 1992,  the Company consummated a  transaction with Cooper Life
Sciences, Inc. ('CLS') which eliminated approximately 80% of the Company's  $100
per  share  liquidation  preference  Senior  Exchangeable  Redeemable Restricted
Voting Preferred Stock ('Senior Preferred  Stock') and resulted in the  issuance
of 4,850,000 shares of the Company's common stock. On June 14, 1993, the Company
acquired from CLS all of the remaining outstanding Senior Preferred Stock of the
Company  in exchange for newly created series  of preferred stock of the Company
('Series B Preferred  Stock'). On  September 26,  1994, the  Series B  Preferred
Stock  was converted  into 3,450,000 shares  of the Company's  common stock. See
Note 13, 'Agreements with CLS,' for a further discussion of these transactions.
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
GENERAL
 
     The  Cooper Companies, Inc. and  its subsidiaries (the 'Company') develops,
manufactures and markets healthcare products, including a range of hard and soft
daily, flexible  and extended  wear  contact lenses,  ophthalmic  pharmaceutical
products  and  diagnostic and  surgical instruments.  The Company  also provides
healthcare services through the ownership  and operation of certain  psychiatric
facilities and management of other such facilities.
 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
     The  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company.
Intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation.  Certain
reclassifications  have  been applied  to prior  years' financial  statements to
conform such  statements  to the  current  year's presentation.  None  of  these
reclassifications had any impact on net loss.
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
 
     Assets  and  liabilities of  the Company's  operations located  outside the
United States (primarily Canada) are translated at prevailing year-end rates  of
exchange. Related income and expense accounts are translated at weighted average
rates  for  each  year.  Gains  and losses  resulting  from  the  translation of
financial statements in foreign  currencies into U. S.  dollars are recorded  in
the equity section of the consolidated balance sheet. Gains and losses resulting
from  the impact  of changes  in exchange  rates on  transactions denominated in
foreign currencies are included in the  determination of net income or loss  for
each   period.  Foreign  exchange  gains  (losses)  included  in  the  Company's
consolidated statement of  operations for each  of the years  ended October  31,
1994, 1993 and 1992 were $53,000, ($550,000) and ($769,000), respectively.
 
NET SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net  service  revenue consists  primarily of  net patient  service revenue,
which is  based  on the  Hospital  Group  of America,  Inc.  ('HGA')  hospitals'
established billing rates less allowances and discounts principally for patients
covered  by Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross,  HMO and other contractual programs.
Payments under these  programs are based  on either predetermined  rates or  the
cost of services. Settlements for retrospectively determined rates are estimated
in  the period  the related  services are  rendered and  are adjusted  in future
periods as final settlements are  determined. Management believes that  adequate
provision  has  been  made  for  adjustments  that  may  result  from  the final
determination of amounts earned under these programs. Approximately 39%, 25% and
21%, respectively,  of  1994,  1993  and 1992  net  service  revenues  are  from
participation of hospitals in Medicare and Medicaid programs.
 
     With  respect to net service  revenue, receivables from government programs
represent the only concentrated group of  potential credit risk to the  Company.
Management  does not  believe that  there are  any credit  risks associated with
these governmental  agencies.  Negotiated  and private  receivables  consist  of
receivables  from  various  payors, including  individuals  involved  in diverse
activities, subject to differing economic  conditions, and do not represent  any
concentrated  credit risks  to the Company.  Furthermore, management continually
monitors  and  adjusts  its  reserves  and  allowances  associated  with   these
receivables.
 
     The  Company provides care  to indigent patients  who meet certain criteria
under its  charity  care policy  without  charge or  at  amounts less  than  its
established  rates. Because  the Company does  not pursue  collection of amounts
determined to qualify  as charity care,  they are not  reported as revenue.  The
Company  maintains records to identify and monitor  the level of charity care it
provides. These
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
records include  the  amount  of  charges foregone  for  services  and  supplies
furnished  under its charity  care policy. Charges  at the Company's established
rates forgone for charity  care provided by the  Company amounted to  $2,498,000
during the year ended October 31, 1994, $3,220,000 during the year ended October
31, 1993 and $1,597,000 during the period from May 29, 1992 to October 31, 1992.
Hampton  Hospital is required by its Certificate  of Need to incur not less than
10% of total patient days as free care.
 
NET SALES OF PRODUCTS
 
     Net sales  of  products  consists  primarily  of  sales  generated  by  the
Company's   CooperVision,   Inc.  ('CVI')   and  CooperSurgical,   Inc.  ('CSI')
businesses.  The  Company  recognizes  revenue   when  risk  of  ownership   has
transferred to the buyer, with appropriate provisions for sales returns.
 
     With   respect  to  net  sales   of  products,  management  believes  trade
receivables do not include any concentrated groups of credit risk.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash and cash  equivalents includes commercial  paper and other  short-term
income  producing securities with a maturity date at purchase of three months or
less. These investments are readily convertible to cash, and are carried at cost
which approximates market.
 
TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS
 
     The Company had no temporary investments on its consolidated balance  sheet
as  of  October  31,  1994.  At October  31,  1993,  temporary  investments were
primarily current marketable equity and debt securities carried at the lower  of
aggregate  cost or market, with unrealized losses included in investment income,
net in the statement of consolidated  operations. Gains or losses realized  upon
sale  (based on the first-in, first-out  method) and write-downs necessitated by
other than temporary declines  in value for all  securities and investments  are
also reflected in investment income, net.
 
     As  of  October  31,  1993,  aggregate cost  and  market  value,  and gross
unrealized gains and losses for current marketable securities were as follows:
 

 
     Unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities included in the  table
above  compare the market value of the  Company's investment in securities as of
October 31, 1993 versus  the cost of such  securities. The unrealized gains  and
losses  do not  indicate the actual  gains or  losses that were  realized by the
Company upon their disposition.
 
     Included in the statement of consolidated operations in investment  income,
net  for each of the years ended October  31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 are unrealized
gains (losses) of  zero, $6,532,000 and  ($6,244,000), respectively, on  current
marketable  securities. Also  included in investment  income, net  for the years
ended October  31, 1994,  1993, and  1992  are net  realized gains  (losses)  of
($530,000), ($7,356,000) and $13,538,000, respectively, on marketable equity and
debt  securities. The combined  impact of the  aforementioned net unrealized and
realized gains (losses) for each of the  years ended October 31, 1994, 1993  and
1992   was  a  net  gain  (loss)   of  ($530,000),  ($824,000)  and  $7,294,000,
respectively.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Interest income for each of the years ended October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
was $377,000,  $2,439,000  and  $6,960,000, respectively,  and  is  included  in
investment income, net.
 
LOANS AND ADVANCES
 
     Loans  and advances were made by the Company to certain of its officers and
employees at interest rates ranging from  7.0% to 9.5% per annum. The  principal
amount  of  loans and  advances outstanding  at  October 31,  1994 and  1993 was
$29,000 and $65,000, respectively.
 
INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are stated  at the  lower of  cost, determined  on a  first-in,
first-out or average cost basis, or market.
 
     The components of inventories are as follows:
 

 
DEPRECIABLE ASSETS
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 

 
     Depreciation  is computed on the straight-line method in amounts sufficient
to write-off depreciable  assets over  their estimated  useful lives.  Leasehold
improvements  are amortized over the shorter  of their estimated useful lives or
the period of the related lease.
 
     Depreciation and  leasehold amortization  expense amounted  to  $2,870,000,
$2,624,000  and $1,537,000 for the years ended  October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.
 
     Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are expensed; major  replacements,
renewals  and betterments are capitalized. The cost and accumulated depreciation
of depreciable assets retired or otherwise  disposed of are eliminated from  the
asset  and  accumulated  depreciation  accounts, and  any  gains  or  losses are
reflected in operations for the period.
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization is provided for on all intangible assets (primarily  goodwill,
which  represents the  excess of  purchase price over  fair value  of net assets
acquired) on  a  straight-line  basis  over  periods  of  up  to  thirty  years.
Accumulated  amortization  at  October  31, 1994  and  1993  was  $3,919,186 and
$2,940,117, respectively. The Company assesses the recoverability of goodwill by
determining whether the amortization of the goodwill balance over its  remaining
life can be recovered through reasonably expected future results.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
RESTRICTED STOCK AND COMPENSATION EXPENSE
 
     Under  the Company's 1988  Long Term Incentive  Plan, its 1990 Non-Employee
Directors' Restricted Stock Plan and its predecessor Restricted Stock Plans (see
Note 10),  certain  officers  and  key employees  designated  by  the  Board  of
Directors  or a committee thereof  have purchased, for par  value, shares of the
Company's common stock restricted as  to resale ('Restricted Shares') unless  or
until  certain  prescribed  objectives  are met  or  certain  events  occur. The
difference between market value  and par value of  the Restricted Shares on  the
date of grant is recorded as unamortized restricted stock award compensation, an
equity account, and charged to operations as earned.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     Effective  November 1,  1993, the Company  adopted the  liability method of
accounting for income taxes as  prescribed by Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 109,  'Accounting for  Income Taxes'  ('FAS 109').  The liability
method under FAS 109 measures the  expected tax impact of future taxable  income
or  deductions resulting  from temporary  differences in  the tax  and financial
reporting bases of assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated  balance
sheet.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using the enacted tax
rates in effect for the year in which these differences are expected to reverse.
Under FAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change  in
tax  rates is recognized in the period that  the change was enacted. In 1993 and
prior years, the Company accounted for income taxes under APB Opinion 11.
 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
     Net income (loss)  per common  share is  determined by  using the  weighted
average  number of common  shares and common  share equivalents (stock warrants)
outstanding during  each year.  Stock  options have  not  been included  in  the
determination  of  earnings  per  common  share  for  any  period  as  they  are
anti-dilutive or resulted in dilution of less than 3%.
 
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
ACQUISITIONS
 
     On April 1,  1993, CVI  acquired via a  purchase transaction  the stock  of
CoastVision  for  approximately  $9,800,000 cash.  CoastVision  manufactures and
markets a range of  contact lens products, primarily  custom soft toric  contact
lenses,  which are designed to correct  astigmatism. The purchase of CoastVision
expanded  CooperVision's  customer   base  for  its   existing  product   lines.
CoastVision  had net sales  of $9,600,000 in  its fiscal year  ended October 31,
1992. Excess  cost  over  net  assets acquired  recorded  on  the  purchase  was
$7,279,000, which is being amortized over 30 years.
 
     On  May 29, 1992, the Company acquired all  of the common stock of HGA from
its ultimate  parent,  Nu-Med Inc.  ('Nu-Med'),  for a  total  consideration  of
approximately  $50,000,000,  including $15,898,000  in  cash, the  assumption of
approximately $22,000,000  of  third party  debt  of  HGA and  the  delivery  of
$21,685,000   principal  amount  of  Nu-Med  debentures  owned  by  the  Company
(including $3,525,000 principal  amount of 'Affiliate  debentures,' defined  and
described  below),  in  which the  Company  had  a cost  basis  of approximately
$12,322,000. The Company used available  cash to purchase the Nu-Med  debentures
and to make the $15,898,000 payment at closing.
 
     Except  for  the 'Affiliate  debentures' defined  and described  below, the
Company acquired the Nu-Med debentures in  open market transactions for a  total
cost  of approximately $10,374,000. On April 13, 1992, the Company acquired, for
a total cost  of approximately  $1,948,000, an  additional $3,525,000  principal
amount  of Nu-Med debentures (the 'Affiliate debentures') from an individual and
a corporation (together, the 'Affiliates') related to or affiliated with Messrs.
Gary, Steven and Brad Singer. The  Affiliate debentures were tendered to  Nu-Med
at the same price paid by the Company. At
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the  time of  the transaction,  Gary and  Steven Singer  were each  officers and
directors of the Company,  and Brad Singer  was a director  of the Company.  The
Affiliate  debentures were  purchased by  the Company  at the  cost paid  by the
Affiliates plus accrued interest thereon, following the approval of the majority
of the  disinterested members  of the  Board  of Directors  of the  Company.  To
protect  the  Company  against any  potential  loss, it  acquired  the Affiliate
debentures pursuant to an agreement that would have allowed the Company to 'put'
the Affiliate debentures  back to the  Affiliates at the  Company's cost if  the
acquisition of HGA had not occurred.
 
     HGA  provides  psychiatric  and  substance  abuse  treatment  through three
hospitals with a total of 269 beds.
 
     Concurrently, PSG Management, Inc. ('PSG Management'), a subsidiary of  the
Company,  entered  into a  three-year management  agreement with  three indirect
subsidiaries of Nu-Med under which  PSG Management is managing three  additional
hospitals  owned by such subsidiaries  which have a total  of 220 licensed beds.
Under the management  agreement, which  expires by its  terms in  May 1995,  PSG
Management is entitled to receive a monthly management fee of $166,667.
 
     The  acquisition of HGA  was accounted for as  a purchase. Accordingly, the
results of HGA's operations were included in the Company's consolidated  results
from  the acquisition  date. The  excess of  cost over  net assets  acquired was
initially estimated to be $6,155,000, subject to purchase price adjustments  per
the sales agreement, and is being amortized over 30 years.
 
     Had  the acquisition  of HGA  occurred on  November 1,  1991, the Company's
unaudited pro forma combined  net revenue, loss  from continuing operations  and
loss   from  continuing  operations  per  share  would  have  been  $95,320,000,
($15,586,000) and ($.56), respectively, for the twelve months ended October  31,
1992.
 
     During  1992, the Company acquired two  parcels of land having an aggregate
cost of  $3,149,000.  The  land was  carried  at  cost in  property,  plant  and
equipment.  Concurrently, the  Company entered  into two  lease agreements under
which the Company was entitled to  receive rental payments. The subject  parcels
of  land  were  sold  in  November  1993  for  cash  and  notes  aggregating the
approximate original purchase price.
 
DISPOSITIONS
 
     In January  1994,  the  Company's Canadian  subsidiary,  CooperVision  Inc.
('CooperVision  Canada'),  sold its  EYEscrub'tm'  trademark for  $110,000 cash,
resulting in an $80,000 gain.
 
     On February 12, 1993,  the Company sold its  EYEscrub'tm' product line  for
$1,400,000  cash, which  resulted in a  $620,000 gain. The  Company retained the
right to  market  certain  ophthalmic pharmaceutical  surgical  kits  containing
EYEscrub'tm'. Sales of such products were discontinued by December 1994.
 
     On  January 31, 1992, the Company assigned its license to manufacture, have
manufactured, sell, distribute and market certain intraocular lens products  and
disposed  of certain other  related rights and  assets. Total cash consideration
received by the Company for such assignment was approximately $5,200,000,  which
resulted in a pretax gain of $1,030,000.
 
NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In  1993,  the Company  recorded a  charge of  $14,000,000 to  increase the
Company's accrual  (the 'Breast  Implant  Accrual') for  contingent  liabilities
associated   with   breast  implant   litigation   involving  the   plastic  and
reconstructive  surgical  division  of  the  Company's  former  Cooper  Surgical
business  segment  ('Surgical')  which  was  sold  in  fiscal  1989  to  Medical
Engineering Corporation ('MEC'),  a subsidiary of  Bristol-Myers Squibb  Company
('Bristol-Myers').  The Breast Implant Accrual will be charged for payments made
and  to  be  made  to  MEC  under  the  agreement  reached  in  September   1993
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
with  MEC and  Bristol-Myers, which limited  the Company's  liability for breast
implant litigation  (the 'MEC  Agreement')  (see Note  12  for the  schedule  of
payments),  as well as certain related charges. In October 1993 the Company made
the initial payment  of $3,000,000 to  MEC. At October  31, 1994, the  Company's
balance  sheet  included  $7,750,000 of  the  Breast Implant  Accrual  in 'other
noncurrent liabilities' and $1,250,000  in Accounts Payable  (which was paid  to
MEC on December 31, 1994) for future payments to MEC. The Company also recorded,
in  1993, a  reversal of  $343,000 of  accruals no  longer necessary  related to
another discontinued business.
 
     In 1992,  the  Company recorded  a  charge of  $9,300,000  to  discontinued
operations,  of which $7,000,000 represented an increase to the Company's Breast
Implant Accrual. The balance of the charge reflected a $2,000,000 settlement  of
a  dispute  involving  the  former Surgical  business  segment,  and  a $300,000
adjustment to the  loss on the  sale of the  Company's former business  segment,
Cooper Technicon, Inc. ('CTI').
 
     No  tax benefit has been applied against  the above figures, as the Company
was not profitable in either year.
 
NOTE 4. EXTRAORDINARY ITEMS
 
     The extraordinary gain of $924,000, or $.03 per share, in 1993  represented
gains  on  the  Company's  purchases  of  $4,846,000  principal  amount  of  its
Debentures. The purchases were privately  negotiated and executed at  prevailing
market prices.
 
     The  extraordinary gain of $640,000, or $.02 per share, in 1992 represented
gains  on  the  Company's  purchases  of  $5,031,000  principal  amount  of  its
Debentures.  Substantially all  of the  purchases were  privately negotiated and
executed at prevailing market prices.
 
NOTE 5. STOCKHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN
 
     On October  29, 1987,  the Board  of Directors  of the  Company declared  a
dividend  distribution of one right for  each outstanding share of the Company's
common stock, par  value $.10  per share (a  'Right'). Each  Right entitles  the
registered  holder  of an  outstanding share  of the  Company's common  stock to
initially purchase from the Company a unit consisting of one one-hundredth of  a
share  of Series  A Junior Participating  Preferred Stock (a  'Unit'), par value
$.10 per share, at a purchase price  of $60.00 per Unit, subject to  adjustment.
The  Rights are exercisable  only if a  person or group  acquires (an 'Acquiring
Person'), or generally obtains the right to acquire beneficial ownership of  20%
or  more of the Company's common stock,  or commences a tender or exchange offer
which would result in such  person or group beneficially  owning 30% or more  of
the Company's common stock.
 
     If, following the acquisition of 20% or more of the Company's common stock,
(i)  the Company  is the  surviving corporation  in a  merger with  an Acquiring
Person and its common stock is not changed, (ii) a person or entity becomes  the
beneficial  owner of  more than  30% of  the Company's  common stock,  except in
certain circumstances such  as through a  tender or exchange  offer for all  the
Company's  common stock which the  Board of Directors determines  to be fair and
otherwise in the best  interests of the Company  and its stockholders, (iii)  an
Acquiring  Person engages in certain self-dealing  transactions or (iv) an event
occurs which  results  in  such  Acquiring  Person's  ownership  interest  being
increased  by more  than 1%,  each holder  of a  Right, other  than an Acquiring
Person, will thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise, the  Company's
common  stock (or, in certain circumstances,  cash, property or other securities
of the Company)  having a value  equal to two  times the exercise  price of  the
Right.
 
     Under  certain circumstances, if (i) the Company is acquired in a merger or
other business combination transaction in which the Company is not the surviving
corporation, unless (a) the transaction  occurs pursuant to a transaction  which
the  Board of Directors determines  to be fair and in  the best interests of the
Company and its stockholders (b) the price per share of common stock offered  in
the transaction is not less than the price per share of common stock paid to all
holders pursuant to
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the  tender or exchange offer, and (c) the consideration used in the transaction
is the same  as that paid  pursuant to  the offer, or  (ii) 50% or  more of  the
Company's  assets or  earning power  is sold  or transferred,  each holder  of a
Right, other  than an  Acquiring  Person, shall  thereafter  have the  right  to
receive,  upon exercise,  common stock of  the acquiring company  having a value
equal to two times the exercise price of the Right.
 
     At any time until the close of business on the tenth day following a public
announcement that an Acquiring  Person has acquired,  or generally obtained  the
right  to acquire, beneficial ownership  of 20% or more  of the Company's common
stock, the Company will generally be entitled to redeem the Rights in whole, but
not in part,  at a  price of  $.05 per Right.  After the  redemption period  has
expired,  the Company's  right of redemption  may be reinstated  if an Acquiring
Person reduces his beneficial ownership to 10% or less of the outstanding shares
of common stock  in a transaction  or series of  transactions not involving  the
Company.
 
     Until  a Right  is exercised,  the holder  thereof, as  such, will  have no
rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right
to vote or to receive dividends. The Rights expire on October 29, 1997.
 
     In June 1993, the Board of Directors amended the Rights Agreement dated  as
of  October 29, 1987, between the Company and The First National Bank of Boston,
as Rights Agent, so that Cooper  Life Sciences, Inc. ('CLS') and its  affiliates
and  associates  as  of  the  amendment  date  would  not  be  Acquiring Persons
thereunder as a result  of CLS's beneficial  ownership of more  than 20% of  the
outstanding  common stock of the Company by  reason of its ownership of Series B
Preferred Stock or common stock issued upon conversion thereof. In January 1995,
the Rights Agreement was further amended to provide that any person who  becomes
the  beneficial owner of 10% or more, but  not more than 30%, of the outstanding
common stock of CLS, and is, therefore, deemed to be the beneficial owner of the
shares of common  stock of the  Company held by  CLS would not  be an  Acquiring
Person,  provided that  such person  is not  otherwise, and  does not thereafter
become, the beneficial owner of more than 1% of the Company's outstanding common
stock. (See 'Agreements With CLS' in Note 13.)
 
NOTE 6. SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
 
     In 1994, the Company recorded the following items related to settlement  of
disputes:
 
            A  credit of $850,000  following receipt of funds  by the Company to
            settle certain claims  made by  the Company associated  with a  real
            estate transaction.
 
            A  charge of $5,800,000, which  represents the Company's estimate of
            costs required  to settle  certain  disputes and  other  litigations
            including $3,450,000 associated with the criminal conviction and SEC
            enforcement action described in Note 16.
 
     The  Company and  CLS entered into  a settlement agreement,  dated June 14,
1993, pursuant to which  CLS delivered a general  release of claims against  the
Company,  subject to  exceptions for specified  ongoing contractual obligations,
and agreed to certain restrictions on  its acquisitions, voting and transfer  of
securities  of the Company, in exchange  for the Company's payment of $4,000,000
in cash and  delivery of  200,000 shares  of common stock  of CLS  owned by  the
Company  and  a  general  release  of claims  against  CLS,  subject  to similar
exceptions. See Note 13 for a discussion of the settlement terms. The cash  paid
and  fair value  of CLS  shares returned  to CLS  were charged  to the Company's
statement of operations  for 1993 as  settlement of disputes.  In addition,  the
Company charged another $1,500,000 for certain other disputes.
 
     Included  in  fiscal 1992  is  a charge  for  settlement of  disputes which
includes 1) a $650,000 charge related to a transaction with CLS, 2) a payment to
Mr. Frederick R. Adler and 3) a  provision to settle several other lawsuits  and
disputes.
 
     In April 1992, Frederick R. Adler, a former director of the Company at that
time,  notified the Company that he would solicit proxies to elect his own slate
of nominees at the 1992 Annual Meeting of
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Shareholders (the 'Annual Meeting'),  in opposition to  the Board's nominees  to
the  Board of Directors (the  'Proxy Contest'). On June  15, 1992, Mr. Adler and
the Company  entered into  a  settlement agreement  with  respect to  the  Proxy
Contest  pursuant to which the  Board of Directors set the  size of the Board at
nine members, effective as  of the Annual Meeting,  and nominated Mr. Adler  and
Louis  A. Craco,  a partner in  the law firm  of Willkie, Farr  & Gallagher, for
election to the Board together with the Board's seven other nominees, Arthur  C.
Bass,  Allen H.  Collins, M.D.,  Joseph C. Feghali,  Mark A.  Filler, Michael H.
Kalkstein, Allan  E.  Rubenstein, M.D.,  and  Robert S.  Weiss.  The  settlement
agreement  provided for the replacement of Mr.  Adler by one of three designated
persons if he  was unable  or unwilling  to serve  as a  director following  his
election  at the Annual Meeting.  In December 1992, Mr.  Adler resigned from the
Company's Board of  Directors and designated  Michael R. Golding,  M.D., as  his
replacement.  As part of  the settlement, in which  the parties exchanged mutual
releases of claims arising  out of the Proxy  Contest and litigation brought  in
connection  therewith,  Mr. Adler  agreed, among  other  things, not  to solicit
proxies in opposition to the election of the Board's nine nominees at the Annual
Meeting and not to take any action to call a special meeting of stockholders  or
solicit  stockholder  consents  with  respect  to  the  election  or  removal of
directors prior to the 1993 annual  meeting of stockholders of the Company.  The
Company  also reimbursed Mr. Adler for $348,000 of expenses actually incurred by
him in  connection with  the Proxy  Contest and  negotiation of  the  settlement
agreement.
 
     In  1992  the  Company reached  an  agreement involving  the  settlement of
Guenther v. Cooper  Life Sciences, et  al., a class  and shareholder  derivative
action  filed against CLS,  the Company, Cooper  Development Company, a Delaware
corporation ('CDC'), Parker G. Montgomery, A. Kenneth Nilsson, Charles  Crocker,
Robert  W. Jamplis, Barbara Foster as executrix of the Estate of Hugh K. Foster,
Michael Mitzmacher, Joseph A. Dornig, Martin M. Koffel, Richard W. Turner,  John
Vuko,  Randolph Stockwell, Hambrecht & Quist,  Incorporated, Peat Marwick Main &
Co., Gryphon Associates,  L.P. and The  Gryphon Management Group,  Ltd. in  June
1988  in the  United States  District Court  for the  District of  Minnesota and
transferred in December 1988 to the District Court for the Northern District  of
California. As amended, the action alleged various securities law violations and
shareholder  derivative claims in connection with the public disclosures by, and
management of,  CLS from  1985  to 1988.  The  Company formerly  shared  certain
officers  and directors  with CLS  and is  alleged to  have controlled  CLS. The
settlement resolved  all claims  asserted  against the  Company and  its  former
officers  and directors.  On April 30,  1993, the court  approved the settlement
after notice to the plaintiff class and a court hearing. In accordance with  the
settlement,  the  case  has been  dismissed  as  to the  Company  and  all other
defendants. The  settlement provided  for  a payment  by Optics  Cayman  Islands
Insurance  Ltd.,  a subsidiary  of the  Company  (which provided  directors' and
officers' liability insurance to  some of the  above-named individuals), in  the
amount  of $2,200,000 on behalf of the directors and officers of CLS, as well as
a payment of $1,800,000 by the Company. The settlement amount was fully reserved
in the books of the Company at July 31, 1992 and paid into escrow by October 31,
1992.
 
NOTE 7. PREFERRED STOCK
 
     On June  14, 1993,  the Company  acquired from  CLS, all  of the  remaining
outstanding  shares of  the Company's Senior  Exchangeable Redeemable Restricted
Voting Preferred Stock ('SERPS'), having an aggregate liquidation preference  of
$16,060,000, together with all rights to any dividends or distributions thereon,
in  exchange  for  shares  of  Series  B  Preferred  Stock  having  an aggregate
liquidation preference of $3,450,000 and a par value of $.10 per share. The  345
shares of the Series B Preferred Stock, and any shares of the Series B Preferred
Stock  issued as dividends, were  convertible into one share  of common stock of
the Company  for each  $1.00  of liquidation  preference, subject  to  customary
antidilution adjustments. The Company also had the right to compel conversion of
the  Series B Preferred Stock  at any time after the  market price of the common
stock  on  its  principal  trading  market  averaged  at  least  $1.375  for  90
consecutive  calendar days and closed at not less than $1.375 on at least 80% of
the trading days during such period.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     On  September  26,  1994   the  Company's  common   stock  met  the   above
requirements,  and the  Series B  Preferred Stock  was converted  into 3,450,000
shares of the Company's common stock. In a Form 4 dated October 4, 1994 filed by
CLS with  the  Securities and  Exchange  Commission,  CLS reported  that  as  of
September  30, 1994,  it owned  7,467,000 shares  (or approximately  22%) of the
Company's outstanding common stock.
 
     During 1994 the Company paid $89,000  or $258.90 per share in dividends  on
the Series B Preferred Stock.
 
NOTE 8. INCOME TAXES
 
     As discussed in Note 1, the Company adopted FAS 109 as of November 1, 1993.
The  adoption had no impact on the  statement of consolidated operations for the
year ended October  31, 1994. The  tax benefit  for net operating  loss and  tax
credit  carryforwards has not been recognized  since the related tax assets were
fully offset by a valuation allowance.
 
     The provision  for (benefit  of)  income taxes  consists of  the  following
components, all of which related to current taxes:
 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
the  Company's statement of  consolidated operations and  the amount computed by
applying the federal income tax rate to income (loss) from continuing operations
before extraordinary items and income taxes follows:
 

 
     The tax  effects of  temporary differences  that give  rise to  significant
portions  of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at October 31,
1994 are as follows:
 

 
     The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of November 1, 1993  was
$84,848,000.  The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended
October 31, 1994 was an increase of $2,327,000.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Subsequently recognized tax  benefits relating to  the valuation  allowance
for deferred tax assets as of October 31, 1994 will be allocated as follows:
 

 
     At  October 31,  1994 the Company  had net operating  loss carryforwards of
approximately $245,000,000  available  to  offset  future  taxable  income.  The
Company  also has  tax credit  carryforwards of  $2,455,000 available  to reduce
future tax liabilities. The net  operating loss and credit carryforwards  expire
commencing in 1999.
 
NOTE 9. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 
     Aggregate  annual maturities,  including current installments,  for each of
the five years subsequent to October 31, 1994 are as follows:
 

 
     On January 6,  1994, the Company  completed an Exchange  Offer and  Consent
Solicitation,  pursuant to  which the  Company issued  approximately $22,000,000
aggregate principal amount of  Notes and paid  approximately $4,350,000 in  cash
($725  principal amount  of Notes  and $145  in cash  for each  $1,000 principal
amount of  Debentures)  in  exchange  for  approximately  $30,000,000  aggregate
principal  amount  of its  Debentures  (out of  $39,384,000  aggregate principal
amount then outstanding). Following the exchange, $9,290,000 aggregate principal
amount of Debentures remains outstanding.
 
     In connection with the Exchange Offer and Consent Solicitation, the Company
amended the indenture governing the Debentures (the 'Indenture') to, among other
things, eliminate a  covenant, with  which the  Company was  not in  compliance,
requiring  the Company to repurchase Debentures.  The amendment also reduced the
conversion price at  which holders  may convert  Debentures into  shares of  the
Company's  common stock  from $27.45 to  $5.00 per share,  subject to adjustment
under certain
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
conditions to  prevent dilution  to the  holders. The  Company also  obtained  a
waiver  (the 'Waiver') of  any and all  Defaults and Events  of Default (as such
terms are defined in the Indenture) that occurred or may have occurred prior  to
the  expiration of  the Exchange  Offer and  Consent Solicitation  on January 6,
1994.
 
     The consummation  of  the  Exchange Offer  and  Consent  Solicitation  also
satisfied  a condition of  the MEC Agreement. Such  condition would have allowed
MEC to terminate the  agreement if the Exchange  Offer and Consent  Solicitation
(or  an  alternative  restructuring  of the  Debentures)  was  not  completed by
February 1, 1994.
 
     The Exchange  Offer and  Consent  Solicitation has  been accounted  for  in
accordance  with Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 15 'Accounting
by Debtors and  Creditors for Troubled  Debt Restructurings.' Consequently,  the
difference  between the carrying value of the Debentures exchanged less the face
value of the Notes issued and the aggregate cash payment for the Debentures  was
recorded  as a deferred  premium aggregating approximately  $4,000,000 as of the
date of the  Exchange. The Company  is recognizing the  benefit of the  deferred
premium as a reduction to the effective interest rate on the Notes over the life
of  the issue. In addition,  the Company recorded a  charge of $2,131,000 in the
fourth quarter of  fiscal 1993 and  an additional charge  of $340,000 in  fiscal
1994 for costs related to the Exchange Offer and Consent Solicitation.
 
     The  Debentures  mature  on  March  1,  2005,  with  interest  payments due
semi-annually each March 1  and September 1. During  1993 and 1992, the  Company
purchased   $4,846,000  and   $5,031,000,  respectively,   principal  amount  of
Debentures, all of which  were retired. The  extraordinary gains which  resulted
from these purchases were $924,000 and $640,000, respectively.
 
     The  Notes mature on June 1, 2003, and bear interest at a rate equal to 10%
per annum, which is payable quarterly on  each March 1, June 1, September 1  and
December  1. The Notes  are redeemable solely  at the option  of the Company, in
whole or in  part, at any  time, at a  redemption price equal  to 100% of  their
principal  amount,  together with  accrued and  unpaid  interest thereon  to the
redemption date. The Company is not required to effect any mandatory redemptions
or make  any  sinking  fund  payments  with respect  to  the  Notes,  except  in
connection  with certain sales  or other dispositions  of, or certain financings
secured by, the collateral  securing the Notes. Pursuant  to a pledge  agreement
dated as of January 6, 1994, between the Company and the trustee for the holders
of  the Notes, the Company has pledged a first priority security interest in all
of its right, title and interest in  stock of its subsidiaries HGA and CSI,  all
additional   shares  of  stock  of,  or   other  equity  interests  in  HGA  and
CooperSurgical from  time to  time  acquired by  the Company,  all  intercompany
indebtedness  of HGA and CooperSurgical  from time to time  held by the Company,
except as  set forth  in the  indenture governing  the Notes,  and the  proceeds
received from the sale or disposition of any or all of the foregoing.
 
     The  Debentures  and the  Notes each  contain various  covenants, including
limitations  on  incurrence  and  ranking  of  indebtedness,  payment  of   cash
dividends,  acquisition  of the  Company's  common stock  and  transactions with
affiliates.
 
     Substantially all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable  of
HGA  collateralize its outstanding debt. The HGA Term Loan carries interest at 4
percentage points over the prime interest rate,  with a floor of 12% per  annum,
which rate was in effect at October 31, 1994. Interest and principal payments on
the  HGA Term  Loan are  due monthly  through August  1997. The  HGA IRB carries
interest at 85% of prime, or approximately  6.6% per annum at October 31,  1994.
Interest  and principal payments on the HGA IRB are due monthly and holders have
elected their  right to  accelerate  all payments  of outstanding  principal  at
December  31, 1995.  The HGA Term  Loan and  the HGA IRB  each contain covenants
including the maintenance by HGA of certain  ratios and levels of net worth  (as
defined),   capital  expenditures,  interest  and  debt  payments,  as  well  as
restrictions on payment of cash dividends.
 
     On September 20, 1994, CVI entered into a Loan and Security Agreement  with
a  commercial lender  providing for revolving  advances of up  to $8,000,000. To
date, no funds have been drawn under
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
this agreement. If and when  funds are drawn, they will  bear interest at 2  1/2
percentage  points above the  highest most recently announced  prime rate of the
three financial institutions of national repute  named in the agreement, with  a
floor  of 8.5%  per annum. As  of December 30,  1994, this rate  would have been
2 1/2  points above  8.5%, or  11.0% per  annum. CVI  agreed to  the payment  of
various  fees, including  minimum interest of  $150,000 per  year. The aggregate
amount of  advances  under  the  agreement  will be  capped  at  the  lesser  of
$8,000,000,  or  a  percentage  of  CVI's  levels  of  eligible  receivables and
inventory as defined in  the agreement (approximately  $6,200,000 in total  line
availability at October 31, 1994) and will be collateralized by virtually all of
the assets of CVI.
 
     A  covenant of  the Loan and  Security Agreement states  that CVI (provided
that no Event of Default, as defined,  has occurred and is continuing) may  make
loans,  advances, investments,  capital contributions  and distributions  to the
Company, and pay management fees to the Company, so long as the total amount  of
all  such amounts does not exceed an amount equal to the sum of (i) 75% of CVI's
Tangible Net Worth, as defined,  on the closing date,  plus (ii) all amounts  in
excess  of required increases in  CVI's Tangible Net Worth  for each fiscal year
ending after October 31,  1994. At September 30,  1994 CVI's Tangible Net  Worth
was  $11,480,000.  At  that  time,  CVI could  have  upstreamed  to  the Company
$8,480,000. At October  31, 1994, CVI  had net assets  of $20,164,000, of  which
$11,077,000 was restricted under the terms of the Loan and Security Agreement.
 
     The  Loan  and Security  Agreement  contains various  additional covenants,
including the  maintenance  of  certain  ratios and  levels  of  net  worth  (as
defined),  limitations on capital expenditures and incurrence of indebtedness as
well  as  limitations  regarding  change   in  control  and  transactions   with
affiliates.
 
     In  connection with the Loan and Security Agreement, the Company guaranteed
all of the obligations under the HGA  Term Loan and CVI's obligations under  the
Loan and Security Agreement and the Company pledged all of the outstanding stock
of CVI as collateral for the HGA Term Loan guaranty.
 
UNAMORTIZED BOND DISCOUNT AND DEFERRED PREMIUM
 
     The  difference between the carrying amount and the principal amount of the
Company's 10 5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset Debentures due 2005  represents
unamortized  discount which  is being  charged to expense  over the  life of the
issue.  As  of  October  31,  1994,  the  amount  of  unamortized  discount  was
approximately $80,000.
 
     The  carrying value of the Debentures exchanged  less the face value of the
Notes issued and the aggregate cash payment for the Debentures was recorded as a
deferred premium. The Company is recognizing the benefit of the deferred premium
as a reduction to the effective interest rate on the Notes over the life of  the
issue.  As of October 31,  1994, the amount of  the unamortized deferred premium
was $3,467,000.
 
NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS
 
1988 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN ('LTIP')
 
     The LTIP is a vehicle for the  Company to attract, retain and motivate  key
employees  and consultants to  the Company and  its subsidiaries and affiliates,
who are directly linked  to the profitability of  the Company and to  increasing
stockholder value.
 
     The LTIP authorizes a committee consisting of three or more individuals not
eligible  to  participate in  the LTIP  or,  if no  committee is  appointed, the
Company's Board of Directors, to grant  to eligible individuals during a  period
of  ten years from September 15, 1988, stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, deferred stock, stock purchase rights, phantom stock units and
long term performance awards for up to 6,376,710 shares of common stock, subject
to adjustment for future stock
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
splits, stock  dividends, expirations,  forfeitures and  similar events.  As  of
October  31, 1994, 3,445,475 shares remained available under the LTIP for future
grants.
 
     In February  and  June  1992,  the Administrative  Committee  of  the  LTIP
authorized  grants to employees and consultants covering an aggregate of 223,250
restricted shares. These restricted shares were to have had restrictions removed
in 20% increments at various price levels attained by the Company's common stock
or have restrictions removed based on performance criteria or at the end of  ten
years.  Of these grants, restrictions were removed from a total of 12,300 shares
in 1992, and the  remainder, not otherwise  forfeited, had restrictions  removed
during  1993 as  a result of  a 'Change  of Control' as  defined by  the LTIP in
connection with the issuance  by the Company of  Series B Preferred Stock.  (See
Note 7.)
 
     As  of  August  1, 1993,  there  were  outstanding options  to  purchase an
aggregate of 1,102,500 shares of common  stock granted to, and not  subsequently
forfeited  by, optionholders at exercise prices  ranging from $.69 to $4.25. The
Company offered  each  employee who  held  options  granted under  the  LTIP  an
opportunity  to  exchange  those  options for  a  smaller  number  of substitute
options. Each new option is exercisable at $.56 per share. The number of  shares
each  employee was entitled to purchase pursuant  to such option was computed by
an independent  nationally  recognized  compensation consulting  firm  using  an
option exchange ratio derived under the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Each
person  who elected  to participate in  the option exchange  program received an
option to purchase an individually calculated percentage ranging from 21% to 70%
of the shares such person was  originally entitled to purchase. A percentage  of
the  new option,  equal to  the percentage  of the  outstanding option  that was
already exercisable,  was  immediately  exercisable, and  the  remainder  became
exercisable  in 1994  in 25%  tranches when the  trading price  of the Company's
common stock over  30 days averaged,  $1.00, $1.50, $2.00  and $2.50 per  share,
respectively. The option exchange program provided optionholders the opportunity
to  exchange options  with exercise  prices well in  excess of  the then current
market price  of the  Company's common  stock with  a lesser  number of  options
exercisable  at a price that,  while still above the  then price, was lower than
the exercise price  on the surrendered  options. Under the  terms of the  option
exchange  offer, each  person who elected  to participate waived  the vesting of
options that otherwise would have resulted  from the Change in Control (as  such
term  is  defined in  the  LTIP) that  occurred  when stockholders  approved the
conversion rights of the  Series B Preferred Stock  on September 14, 1993.  (See
Note 7.)
 
1990 NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN ('NEDRSP')
 
     Under the terms of the NEDRSP, each director of the Company who is not also
an  employee of or a consultant to the  Company or any subsidiary of the Company
('Non-Employee Director') is granted the right to purchase, for $.10 per  share,
5,000  shares of the Company's common  stock, subject to restrictions, which can
be lifted  either  by  the fair  market  value  of the  Company's  common  stock
achieving  stated  targets, or  upon the  passage  of a  stated period  of time,
typically 10 years after the grant.  One hundred thousand shares of such  common
stock  were authorized and reserved for  issuance under the NEDRSP. Shares which
are forfeited become available for new awards under such plan.
 
     Transactions involving the  grant of  options or restricted  shares of  the
Company's common stock in connection with the LTIP and NEDRSP during each of the
years  in the three year period ended  October 31, 1994 are summarized below. At
October 31, 1994, there were 3,445,475 and 45,000 shares of the Company's common
stock available for future grants under the LTIP and NEDRSP, respectively.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     Options issued and  outstanding have  option prices ranging  from $0.56  to
$3.75 per share.
 

 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The  excess  of  market  value  over $.10  per  share  of  LTIP  and NEDRSP
restricted shares  on  respective dates  of  grant is  recorded  as  unamortized
restricted  stock  award  compensation, a  separate  component  of stockholders'
equity. Restricted shares  and other  stock compensation  charged (credited)  to
selling,  general and administrative expense for the twelve months ended October
31, 1994, 1993  and 1992  was approximately $55,000,  $1,084,000 and  ($33,000),
respectively.
 
PRIOR STOCK OPTION PLANS
 
     Prior to the September 15, 1988 implementation of the LTIP, the Company had
two  stock option  plans (the  'Stock Option Plans').  With the  adoption of the
LTIP, all  authorized  but unallocated  options  under the  Stock  Option  Plans
(options  for approximately 430,500  shares of the  Company's common stock) were
transferred to the  LTIP. No further  grants are allowed  from the Stock  Option
Plans, although previously existing grants remained in effect.
 
     Transactions  in the Company's common stock  during each of the three years
ended October 31, 1994 in connection with the Stock Option Plans are  summarized
below:
 

 
NOTE 11. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
THE COMPANY'S RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN
 
     The  Company adopted The Cooper Companies, Inc. Retirement Income Plan (the
'Retirement Plan') in December 1983.  The Retirement Plan is a  non-contributory
pension  plan covering  substantially all  full-time United  States employees of
CVI, CVP  and  the Company's  Corporate  Headquarters. The  Company's  customary
contributions  are designed to fund  normal cost on a  current basis and to fund
over thirty  years the  estimated  prior service  cost of  benefit  improvements
(fifteen  years for  annual gains  and losses).  The unit  credit actuarial cost
method is used to determine the annual cost. The Company pays the entire cost of
the Retirement  Plan and  funds  such costs  as  they accrue.  Retirement  costs
applicable  to continuing  and discontinued  operations of  the Company  for the
years ended  October  31,  1994,  1993 and  1992  were  approximately  $123,000,
$181,000  and  $265,000,  respectively.  Virtually  all  of  the  assets  of the
Retirement Plan  are comprised  of  participations in  equity and  fixed  income
funds.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Based  on the latest actuarial  information available, the following tables
set forth the net periodic pension  costs, funded status and amounts  recognized
in the Company's consolidated financial statements for the Retirement Plan:
 
                           NET PERIODIC PENSION COST
 

 
               SCHEDULE RECONCILING THE FUNDED STATUS OF THE PLAN
              WITH PROJECTED AMOUNTS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

 
THE COMPANY'S 401(k) SAVINGS PLAN
 
     The  Company's 401(k)  Plan provides  for the  deferral of  compensation as
described in the Internal  Revenue Code, and is  available to substantially  all
full-time  United  States  employees  of  the  Company.  United  States resident
employees of the Company who  participate in the 401(k)  Plan may elect to  have
from  2% to 10% of their pre-tax salary  or wages, but not more than $5,000 (for
highly compensated employees)  for the  calendar year ended  December 31,  1994,
deferred  and contributed  to the trust  established under the  401(k) Plan. The
Company's   contribution   to    the   401(k)   Plan    on   account   of    the
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Company's  participating  employees,  net of  forfeiture  credits,  was $80,000,
$90,000 and  $72,000  for the  years  ended October  31,  1994, 1993  and  1992,
respectively.
 
THE COMPANY'S INCENTIVE PAYMENT PLAN
 
     The  Company's Incentive Payment Plan ('IPP')  is available to officers and
other key executives. Participants may, in certain years, receive bonuses  based
on Company and subsidiary performance. Total payments earned for the years ended
October  31, 1994,  1993 and 1992,  were approximately  $1,296,000, $439,000 and
$456,000, respectively.  The Board  of Directors  of the  Company also  approved
discretionary  bonuses outside of the  IPP for the years  ended October 31, 1993
and October 31, 1992 of approximately $124,000 and $343,000, respectively.
 
THE COMPANY'S TURN-AROUND INCENTIVE PLAN
 
     The Company's  Turn-Around  Incentive  Plan  ('TIP')  was  adopted  by  the
Compensation  Committee  of the  Board  and the  1988  Long Term  Incentive Plan
Administrative Committee of the Board on May 18, 1993. The TIP was adopted, upon
the recommendation  of the  Company's independent  compensation consultants,  to
recognize  the special  efforts of  certain individuals  in guiding  the Company
through a resolution of its difficulties  arising from its then current  capital
structure   and  its  former  ownership   of  companies  that  manufactured  and
distributed breast implants.
 
     The TIP provided  for awards in  varying amounts to  be made to  designated
participants.  Before any awards could become  payable, however, the Company had
to significantly reduce its  liabilities relating to  the former breast  implant
business  to  levels approved  by the  Board of  Directors, which  condition was
satisfied when the MEC Agreement became final on January 6, 1994 (see Note  14).
Upon satisfaction of such condition, one-third of the award was payable when the
average  per share price of  the Company's common stock  over a period of thirty
days equaled or exceeded  $1.50 per share.  That occurred on  May 25, 1994,  and
participants  in the TIP  were, therefore, awarded one-third  of the total award
for which they  were eligible  under the  TIP. The  payments were  made in  cash
($246,667)  and by means of  the issuance of 297,778  shares of restricted stock
under the Company's  1988 Long Term  Incentive Plan. That  stock generally  will
remain  restricted and non-transferable for a period of two years. The remaining
two-thirds of the  allocated TIP  awards will  be payable  at such  time as  the
30-day  average of  the price  of the Company's  common stock  equals or exceeds
$3.00 per share. The  maximum value of  the awards that  could be made  (whether
paid in stock or cash), assuming both targets are satisfied, is $2,250,000.
 
NOTE 12. LEASE AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
 
     Total  minimum  annual  rental  obligations  under  noncancelable operating
leases (substantially all real property and  equipment) in force at October  31,
1994 are payable in subsequent years as follows:
 

 
     Aggregate  rental expense  for both cancelable  and noncancelable contracts
amounted to  $2,438,000,  $2,105,000 and  $2,828,000  in 1994,  1993  and  1992,
respectively.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The  $9,000,000 liability recorded for payments to be made to MEC under the
MEC Agreement (see Note 3) will become due as follows:
 

 
     Additional payments  to be  made to  MEC beginning  December 31,  1999  are
contingent  upon the  Company's earning net  income before taxes  in each fiscal
year, and are, therefore,  not recorded in  the Company's financial  statements.
Such  payments are  limited to the  smaller of  50% of the  Company's net income
before taxes in each such  fiscal year on a  noncumulative basis or the  amounts
shown below:
 

 
     Under  the terms of a supply agreement  most recently modified in 1993, the
Company agreed to purchase by December  31, 1997, certain contact lenses from  a
British  manufacturer, Pilkington  plc with  an aggregate  cost of approximately
`L'4,063,000. Approximately `L'400,000, `L'213,000, `L'7,000 was purchased under
the terms  of  the  supply  agreement  in fiscal  years  1994,  1993  and  1992,
respectively.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  there  remained  a  commitment  of
approximately `L'3,381,000.
 
WARRANTS
 
     In connection with  agreements to  extend the due  date on  certain of  the
Company's  outstanding debt in 1988,  the Company issued warrants  to a group of
its lenders. Warrants to purchase 658,950  shares of the Company's common  stock
vested  in December 1988 and  currently have an expiration  date of December 29,
1995. All other warrants related to the agreements expired.
 
     The terms of the warrants  provide that the exercise  price is to be  reset
every  six months to the lower of the  then current exercise price or 80% of the
market value as defined in  the warrant agreement. As  of January 12, 1994,  the
most recent reset date, the exercise price was $.37 per share.
 
     The  Company issued a warrant  to Foothill Capital Corporation ('Foothill')
to purchase 80,000 shares of the Company's  common stock at $1.875 per share  in
connection  with  the  loan  and security  agreement  among  Foothill,  CVI, and
CooperVision Canada. The warrant becomes  exercisable on September 21, 1997  and
expires  on May 26,  1999. Both the number  of shares under  the warrant and the
exercise price per  share are  adjustable under certain  circumstances to  avoid
dilution.
 
NOTE 13. RELATIONSHIPS AND TRANSACTIONS BETWEEN THE COMPANY, CLS, COOPER
DEVELOPMENT COMPANY (CDC') AND THE COOPER LABORATORIES, INC. STOCKHOLDERS'
LIQUIDATING TRUST (THE TRUST')
 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
 
     Pursuant  to separate agreements  between the Company and  CDC, CLS and the
Trust, which was  formed in  connection with  the liquidation  of the  Company's
former   parent,  Cooper  Laboratories,  Inc.,   the  Company  provided  certain
administrative  services   to   CDC,   CLS  and   the   Trust,   including   the
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
services  of  the Company's  treasury,  legal, tax,  data  processing, corporate
development, investor relations and accounting  staff. Expenses were charged  on
the  basis  of  specific utilization  or  allocated based  on  personnel, space,
percent of assets used  or other appropriate bases.  The agreements relating  to
the  provision of administrative services to CDC and CLS terminated on September
17, 1988. The  Company has  not performed  any services  for CDC  and CLS  since
September  17, 1988,  other than  historic tax  services pursuant  to the Trust.
Combined corporate administrative expenses charged  to the Trust by the  Company
were  $213,000 in 1992 and $560,000 in 1991.  On July 9, 1992, the Trust filed a
petition in Bankruptcy under  Chapter 7 of the  Bankruptcy Code; and,  effective
July  31, 1992, the Company ceased providing  services to the Trust. The Company
has asserted  a  claim for  approximately  $750,000 in  the  Trust's  bankruptcy
proceedings,  primarily  representing  unpaid  administrative  service  fees and
expenses and legal fees advanced by the Company on behalf of the Trust.
 
AGREEMENTS WITH CLS
 
     On October  21,  1988,  the  Company and  CLS  entered  into  a  settlement
agreement (the '1988 CLS Settlement Agreement') pursuant to which certain claims
between  the two  corporations were  settled. Among  other things,  the 1988 CLS
Settlement Agreement provided that (a) the discovery period under the  directors
and officers liability insurance policy issued by the Company covering directors
and  officers of CLS  would be extended  pursuant to an  option contained in the
insurance policy (see 'Liability Insurance' below), (b) CLS would indemnify  the
Company  for certain claims made by a  former consultant to the Company, (c) CLS
would have no further liability to  the Company with respect to the  termination
of  the contract pursuant to which the Company had agreed to purchase ophthalmic
laser systems from CLS, (d) CLS would pay the Company $2,750,000 and (e) CLS, in
its capacity  as  a  holder  of the  Company's  Senior  Exchangeable  Redeemable
Restricted  Voting Preferred Stock (the 'SERPS'), would consent to the Company's
proposed sales of its CTI business and  its Cooper Surgical business and to  the
proposed  deletion of the mandatory redemption  provision of the SERPS. The 1988
CLS Settlement Agreement did not allocate the $2,750,000 settlement amount among
the various items contained therein. The $2,750,000  was paid in full by CLS  in
December 1988.
 
     On  November 27,  1989, the Company  and CLS entered  into another separate
settlement agreement (the '1989 CLS Settlement Agreement'). Pursuant to the 1989
CLS Settlement Agreement, among  other things, the Company  and CLS (i)  entered
into  a mutual standstill arrangement precluding  each party from acquiring each
other's common stock and precluding CLS from acquiring additional shares of  the
SERPS,  (ii) dismissed most of the outstanding litigations among the Company and
CLS, (iii) reaffirmed the Company's obligation  to register the SERPS, and  (iv)
obtained  the consent of  CLS, as a  holder of outstanding  SERPS, to any future
sale of all  or any portion  of the Company's  remaining contact lens  business,
subject  to the  receipt of  a fairness  opinion and  following a  90-day period
(since expired) in which  the Company would negotiate  the sale of the  business
exclusively with CLS and CDC.
 
     On  June 12,  1992, the Company  consummated a transaction  with CLS, which
eliminated approximately 80% of the SERPS (the '1992 CLS Transaction'). Pursuant
to an Exchange Agreement between the Company  and CLS dated as of June 12,  1992
(the '1992 Exchange Agreement'), the Company acquired from CLS 488,004 shares of
the  SERPS owned by CLS, and all of  CLS's right to receive, by way of dividends
pursuant to the terms of the SERPS,  an additional 11,996 shares of SERPS  (such
11,996 shares together with the 488,004 shares being referred to collectively as
the  SERPS) in exchange for 4,850,000 newly  issued shares of the Company common
stock (the  'Company  Shares').  In  addition,  the  Company  purchased  200,000
unregistered shares of CLS common stock (the 'CLS Shares'), for a purchase price
of  $1,500,000 in cash and entered into a settlement agreement with CLS dated as
of June 12,  1992 (the  '1992 Settlement  Agreement'), with  respect to  certain
litigation  and administrative  proceedings in  which the  Company and  CLS were
involved. Pursuant to the  1992 Settlement Agreement,  CLS, among other  things,
released its claim against the Company for unliquidated damages arising from the
Company's  failure to register the SERPS, in return for the Company's payment of
$500,000, the reimbursement of certain legal fees and expenses in the amount  of
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
$650,000   incurred   by  CLS   in  connection   with  certain   litigation  and
administrative proceedings, and the payment of  $709,000 owed by the Company  to
CLS  pursuant to tax sharing agreements between them. The Company also agreed to
reimburse CLS for up to $250,000 of  legal and other fees and expenses  incurred
by  CLS in connection with the 1992 CLS Transaction and, if requested by CLS, to
use its reasonable best efforts to cause the election to the Company's Board  of
Directors  of one or two designees of  CLS, reasonably acceptable to the Company
(the number of designees depending, respectively, on whether CLS owns more  than
1,000,000  but less than 2,400,000 shares, or  more than 2,400,000 shares of the
Company's common stock).
 
     As part  of  the 1992  CLS  Transaction, pursuant  to  Registration  Rights
Agreements,  dated as of  June 12, 1992,  each between the  Company and CLS (the
'Registration Rights Agreements'), the  Company and CLS each  agreed to use  its
reasonable  best efforts to  register, respectively, the  Company Shares and the
CLS Shares. On July 27, 1992, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  a  registration  statement  for  the  Company  Shares  which  became
effective  November 20, 1992.  If a registration  statement covering the Company
Shares had not been declared effective within 180 days following June 12,  1992,
the  Company had agreed to pay $1,250,000 in  cash (an amount equal to the value
of 'pay-in-kind'  dividends it  would have  accrued  on the  SERPS but  for  the
exchange).  CLS has agreed that if CLS  had not registered the CLS Shares within
17 months from the closing date, the Company could require CLS to repurchase the
CLS Shares, at the Company's cost of $1,500,000, by either, at CLS's option, (a)
payment of cash, (b) delivery of shares of Senior Preferred Stock, valued at $39
per share, or (c) delivery of shares of the Company's common stock, valued at $3
per share.  The CLS  shares  were delivered  to  CLS as  part  of the  1993  CLS
Settlement Agreement (as defined and described below).
 
     On  June  14, 1993,  the Company  acquired  from CLS  all of  the remaining
outstanding SERPS of the Company, having an aggregate liquidation preference  of
$16,060,000, together with all rights to any dividends or distributions thereon,
in  exchange  for  shares  of  Series  B  Preferred  Stock  having  an aggregate
liquidation preference of  $3,450,000 and  a par value  of $.10  per share  (the
'1993  Exchange Agreement'). Such  shares, and any shares  of Series B Preferred
Stock issued as dividends,  were convertible into one  share of common stock  of
the  Company  for each  $1.00 of  liquidation  preference, subject  to customary
antidilution adjustments.
 
     The Company also had the right  to compel conversion of Series B  Preferred
Stock  at any time after  the market price of the  common stock on its principal
trading market averaged  at least $1.375  for 90 consecutive  calendar days  and
closed  at not less than $1.375 on at  least 80% of the trading days during such
period. On  September  26,  1994,  the Company's  common  stock  met  the  above
requirements,  and the  Series B  Preferred Stock  was converted  into 3,450,000
shares of the Company's common stock.
 
     No dividends accrued on the Series B Preferred Stock through June 14, 1994.
Subsequently, dividends accrued and  were paid in  cash, at the  rate of 9%  (of
liquidation preference) per annum, through the date of conversion.
 
     The  Company and  CLS also  entered into  a Registration  Rights Agreement,
dated June 14, 1993, providing for the registration under the Securities Act  of
the  shares of common stock  issued upon such conversion of  any of the Series B
Preferred Stock and any of the 4,850,000 shares of common stock currently  owned
by CLS which have not been sold prior thereto.
 
     On June 14, 1993, the Board of Directors amended the Rights Agreement dated
as  of October  29, 1987,  between the  Company and  The First  National Bank of
Boston, as Rights Agent, so that CLS and its affiliates and associates as of the
amendment date would not  be Acquiring Persons thereunder  as a result of  CLS's
beneficial  ownership of more  than 20% of  the outstanding common  stock of the
Company by reason of its ownership of  Series B Preferred Stock or common  stock
issued upon conversion thereof. (See Note 5.)
 
     CLS obtained 4,850,000 shares of the Company's common stock pursuant to the
1992 Exchange Agreement described above. In Amendment No. 1 to its Schedule 13D,
filed with the SEC on
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
November 12, 1992, CLS disclosed that 'in light of the recent public disclosures
relating to the Company and the recent significant decline in the public trading
price  of  the common  stock, CLS  is presently  considering various  courses of
action which  it  may determine  to  be necessary  or  appropriate in  order  to
maintain  and restore the value of the  common stock. Included among the actions
which CLS is considering pursuing are  the initiation of litigation against  the
Company and the replacement of management and at least a majority of the members
of the Board of Directors of the Company.'
 
     On  June 14, 1993, in  order to resolve all  disputes with CLS, the Company
and CLS entered into a  Settlement Agreement (the '1993 Settlement  Agreement'),
pursuant to which CLS delivered a general release of claims against the Company,
subject  to exceptions for specified ongoing contractual obligations, and agreed
to certain restrictions on its voting and transfer of securities of the Company,
in exchange for  the Company's  payment of $4,000,000  in cash  and delivery  of
200,000 shares of common stock of CLS owned by the Company and a general release
of  claims against CLS,  subject to similar  exceptions. The cash  paid and fair
value of CLS  shares returned have  been charged to  the Company's statement  of
operations as settlement of disputes. (See Note 6.)
 
     Pursuant  to the 1993 Settlement Agreement, the Company agreed to nominate,
and to vote all  of its shares of  common stock of the  Company in favor of  the
election of, a Board of Directors of the Company consisting of eight members, up
to three of whom will, at CLS's request, be designated by CLS (such designees to
be officers or more than 5% stockholders of CLS as of June 14, 1993 or otherwise
be  reasonably  acceptable to  the Company).  The number  of CLS  designees will
decline as CLS's  ownership of common  stock declines. A  majority of the  Board
members (other than CLS designees) are to be individuals who are not officers or
employees  of the Company. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, CLS designated,
and on August 10, 1993 the Board of Directors elected, one person to serve as  a
director  of the Company until the 1993 Annual Meeting. CLS also designated that
individual  along  with  two  other  people  as  its  three  designees  to   the
eight-member  Board of  Directors that was  elected at the  1993 Annual Meeting.
Each of those three CLS designees was reelected to the Board at the 1994  Annual
Meeting.
 
     CLS  also  agreed  in the  1993  Settlement  Agreement not  to  acquire any
additional securities of the Company and to certain limitations on its  transfer
of  securities of the Company. In addition,  CLS agreed, among other things, not
to seek  control of  the  Company or  the Board  or  otherwise take  any  action
contrary to the 1993 CLS Settlement Agreement. CLS is free, however, to vote all
voting  securities owned by it as it  deems appropriate on any matter before the
Company's stockholders.
 
     The agreements with  respect to  Board representation and  voting, and  the
restrictions  on CLS's  acquisition and transfer  of securities  of the Company,
were to terminate on June  14, 1995, or earlier  if CLS beneficially owned  less
than  1,000,000 shares of common stock (including as owned the common stock into
which shares  of Series  B Preferred  Stock owned  by CLS  were converted).  The
agreements were to be extended if the market price of the common stock increased
to specified levels prior to each of June 12, 1995, and June 12, 1996, or if the
Company  agreed to  nominate one  CLS designee, who  was independent  of CLS and
reasonably acceptable to the Company, in addition to that number of designees to
which CLS was then entitled on each such date, which would have resulted in such
agreements continuing  through October  31,  1996, and  CLS  having up  to  five
designees  on the Board (which would then have a total of ten members, or eleven
members if a new  chairman or chief  executive officer was  then serving on  the
Board).  In January 1995, in connection with the further amendment to the Rights
Agreement (see  Note  5),  the  Company and  CLS  amended  the  1993  Settlement
Agreement  to provide that the provisions  relating to CLS representation on the
Company's Board, CLS's obligations with respect to voting its securities of  the
Company  and the restrictions on CLS's acquisition and transfer of securities of
the Company, will  now end on  the earlier of  (i) the first  date on which  CLS
beneficially  owns  fewer than  1,000,000  shares of  the  Company's outstanding
common stock  or  (ii) October  31,  1996, or  if  any person  (other  than  two
specified  individuals)  becomes the  beneficial  owner of  20%  or more  of the
outstanding shares of common stock of CLS, April 30, 1997.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Following termination of the 1993 Settlement Agreement and through June 12,
2002, CLS will continue to  have the contractual right  that it had pursuant  to
the  1992 CLS Settlement Agreement to designate two directors of the Company, so
long as CLS continues to own at  least 2,400,000 shares of common stock, or  one
director,  so long as  it continues to  own at least  1,000,000 shares of common
stock.
 
OTHER
 
     CLS was formerly an 89.5% owned subsidiary of the Company's former  parent,
Cooper Laboratories, Inc. ('Labs').
 
     On June 14, 1993, CLS acquired 345 shares of Series B Preferred Stock which
were  convertible  into  3,450,000 shares  of  common stock.  Those  shares were
converted on  September  26,  1994  and according  to  a  report  on  beneficial
ownership  on Form  4 dated October  9, 1994  filed by CLS  with the  SEC, as of
September 30, 1994, CLS owned 7,467,000 shares (or approximately 22%) of  common
stock of the Company.
 
     Two  members of the Company's Board of  Directors are also officers of CLS.
Mel Schnell, President and Director of CLS, and Steven Rosenberg, Vice President
and Chief Financial  Officer of  CLS, each owns  5,000 shares  of the  Company's
common stock, obtained through the NEDRSP. (See Note 10.)
 
NOTE 14. BUSINESS AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's operations are attributable to four business segments:
 
           HGA,  which provides  healthcare services  through the  ownership and
           operation of certain  psychiatric facilities, and  the management  of
           other such facilities,
 
           CVI,  which  develops, manufactures  and markets  a range  of contact
           lenses in the United States and Canada,
 
           CVP,  a  development  stage  business,  which  develops   proprietary
           ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, and
 
           CSI,  which  develops,  manufactures and  distributes  diagnostic and
           surgical instruments and disposables, primarily for gynecology.
 
     Total revenues by business segment represents service and sales revenue  as
reported  in the Company's statement of consolidated operations. Total net sales
revenue by  geographic  area includes  intercompany  sales which  are  generally
priced  at terms that  allow for a  reasonable profit for  the seller. Operating
income (loss) is total revenue less cost of products sold (or services provided,
in the  case  of HGA  revenues),  research and  development  expenses,  selling,
general  and administrative expenses, costs of restructuring and amortization of
intangible  assets.   Corporate   operating  loss   is   principally   corporate
headquarters  expense.  Investment  income, net,  settlement  of  disputes, debt
restructuring costs, gain on sales of  assets and businesses, net, other  income
(expense), net, and interest expense were not allocated to individual businesses
or geographic segments.
 
     Identifiable   assets  are  those  assets  used  in  continuing  operations
(exclusive of cash  and cash equivalents)  or which are  allocated thereto  when
used  jointly. Corporate assets include cash  and cash equivalents and temporary
investments.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Information by business  segment for each  of the years  in the  three-year
period ended October 31, follows:
 

 

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Results from May 29, 1992.
 
(2) Includes  $3,149,000 for  two real  estate investments  made by  Cooper Real
    Estate Group.
 
     Information by geographic  area for  each of the  years in  the three  year
period ended October 31, follows:

 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 15. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

 
- ------------
 
*  The  sum of income (loss) per common share for the four quarters is different
   from the  full  year net  income  (loss) per  common  share as  a  result  of
   computing  the quarterly and full year  amounts on weighted average number of
   common shares outstanding in the respective periods.
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     At  December  31,  1994  and  1993  there  were  4,495  and  4,550   common
stockholders of record, respectively.
 
NOTE 16. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The  Company is a  defendant in a  number of legal  actions relating to its
past or  present businesses  in which  plaintiffs are  seeking damages.  In  the
opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, the ultimate disposition
of those actions will not materially affect the Company's financial position.
 
     On  November  10,  1992, the  Company  was  charged in  an  indictment (the
'Indictment'), filed  in  the United  States  District Court  for  the  Southern
District  of  New  York, with  violating  federal  criminal laws  relating  to a
'trading scheme' by  Gary A. Singer,  a former Co-Chairman  of the Company  (who
went  on a leave of absence on May 28, 1992, begun at the Company's request, and
who subsequently resigned on January 20, 1994), and others, including G.  Albert
Griggs,  Jr., a former analyst of The  Keystone Group, Inc., and John D. Collins
II, to 'frontrun'  high yield bond  purchases by the  Keystone Custodial  Funds,
Inc.,  a group  of mutual  funds. The  Company was  named as  a defendant  in 10
counts. Gary Singer was named as a defendant in 24 counts, including  violations
of  the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the mail and wire
fraud statutes  (including defrauding  the  Company by  virtue of  the  'trading
scheme,'  by, among other things, transferring profits on trades on DR Holdings,
Inc. 15.5% bonds (the 'DR  Holdings Bonds') from the  Company to members of  his
family  during  fiscal  1991),  money  laundering,  conspiracy,  and  aiding and
abetting violations of  the Investment  Advisers Act  of 1940,  as amended  (the
'Investment  Advisers Act'), by an investment  advisor. On January 13, 1994, the
Company was found guilty on six counts of mail fraud and one count of wire fraud
based upon Mr. Singer's conduct, but was acquitted of charges of conspiracy  and
aiding  and abetting violations  of the Investment Advisers  Act. Mr. Singer was
found guilty on  21 counts. One  count against  Mr. Singer and  the Company  was
dismissed  at trial  and two  counts against  Mr. Singer  relating to forfeiture
penalties were resolved by  stipulation between the  government and Mr.  Singer.
Mr. Singer's attorney has advised
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the  Company  that Mr.  Singer intends  to appeal  his conviction.  Although the
Company may be  obliged under its  Certificate of Incorporation  to advance  the
costs  of such appeal,  the Company and  Mr. Singer have  agreed that Mr. Singer
will not  request  such  advances,  but  that he  will  reserve  his  rights  to
indemnification  in the event of a  successful appeal. The Company was sentenced
on July 15, 1994, at which time  it was ordered to make restitution to  Keystone
Custodian  Funds,  Inc.  of  $1,310,166  within  30  days  of  such  date.  Such
restitution has been made. In  addition, the Company was  ordered to pay a  non-
interest bearing fine over the next three years in the amount of $1,831,568.
 
     On  November  10,  1992, the  SEC  filed  a civil  Complaint  for Permanent
Injunction and Other Equitable Relief (the 'SEC Complaint') in the United States
District Court for the Southern District  of New York against the Company,  Gary
A.  Singer (a former Co-Chairman of the  Board of the Company), Steven G. Singer
(the Company's former Executive Vice  President and Chief Operating Officer  and
Gary  Singer's brother), and,  as relief defendants,  certain persons related to
Gary and Steven Singer and certain  entities in which they and/or those  related
persons  have an interest. The  SEC Complaint alleged that  the Company and Gary
and Steven Singer violated various provisions of the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934,  as  amended (the  'Securities Exchange  Act'),  including certain  of its
antifraud and periodic reporting provisions, and aided and abetted violations of
the Investment Company Act, and the Investment Advisers Act, in connection  with
a  'trading  scheme' to  'frontrun' high  yield bond  purchases by  the Keystone
Custodian Funds,  Inc., a  group  of mutual  funds.  The SEC  Complaint  further
alleged,  among  other  things, federal  securities  law violations  (i)  by the
Company and  Gary Singer  in  connection with  an  alleged manipulation  of  the
trading price of the Company's 10 5/8% Convertible Subordinated Reset Debentures
due  2005 (the 'Debentures') to avoid  an interest rate reset allegedly required
on June 15, 1991 under the terms of the Indenture governing the Debentures, (ii)
by Gary Singer in allegedly transferring  profits on trades of high yield  bonds
from  the  Company  to  members  of his  family  and  failing  to  disclose such
transactions to the  Company and  (iii) by the  Company in  failing to  disclose
publicly  on a timely basis such transactions  by Gary Singer. The SEC Complaint
asked that the Company and Gary  and Steven Singer be enjoined permanently  from
violating  the antifraud, periodic reporting and other provisions of the federal
securities laws, that they disgorge the amounts of the alleged profits  received
by  them pursuant to the alleged frauds  (stated in the SEC's Litigation Release
No. 13432  announcing the  filing  of the  SEC  Complaint as  being  $1,296,406,
$2,323,180  and $174,705, respectively),  plus interest, and  that they each pay
appropriate civil  monetary  penalties. The  SEC  Complaint also  sought  orders
permanently  prohibiting  Gary and  Steven Singer  from  serving as  officers or
directors of  any public  company and  disgorgement from  certain Singer  family
members  and entities  of amounts representing  the alleged  profits received by
such defendants pursuant to  the alleged frauds. On  December 20, 1994, a  Final
Judgment  (on  Consent) of  Permanent Injunction  and  Other Relief  was entered
settling the SEC Complaint with respect  to the Company. The principal terms  of
the  settlement involve the Company's agreement to permanent injunctions against
violation of Sections 10(b),  13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B)  and 14(a) of  the
Securities  Exchange Act from  aiding and abetting violations  of Section 204 of
the Investment Advisers  Act of  1940, and  from employing  Gary Singer,  Steven
Singer  and/or any of their relatives. The Company agreed to the disgorgement of
$1,621,474 and the  payment of a  civil penalty of  $1,150,000. The Company  had
already  disgorged  $1,310,166  in connection  with  the sentence  imposed  in a
related criminal action involving the 'frontrunning' arrangement; the balance of
the disgorgement was paid in January 1995. The civil penalty imposed by the  SEC
is  offset by the larger fine to which the Company was sentenced in the criminal
action.
 
     The Company is  named as a  nominal defendant in  a shareholder  derivative
action  entitled Harry  Lewis and  Gary Goldberg  v. Gary  A. Singer,  Steven G.
Singer, Arthur C. Bass, Joseph C. Feghali, Warren J. Keegan, Robert S.  Holcombe
and  Robert S. Weiss, which was filed on  May 27, 1992 in the Court of Chancery,
State of Delaware, New Castle County. On May 29, 1992, another plaintiff, Alfred
Schecter, separately filed  a derivative  complaint in  Delaware Chancery  Court
that  was essentially identical  to the Lewis and  Goldberg complaint. Lewis and
Goldberg later amended their complaint, and the Delaware
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Chancery Court  thereafter  consolidated the  Lewis  and Goldberg  and  Schecter
actions as In re The Cooper Companies, Inc. Litigation, Consolidated C.A. 12584,
and designated Lewis and Goldberg's amended complaint as the operative complaint
(the  'First  Amended  Derivative  Complaint').  The  First  Amended  Derivative
Complaint alleges that certain directors of  the Company and Gary A. Singer,  as
Co-Chairman  of the Board  of Directors, caused  or allowed the  Company to be a
party to the 'trading scheme' referenced  in the SEC Complaint described  above.
The First Amended Derivative Complaint also alleges that the defendants violated
their  fiduciary  duties  to the  Company  by not  vigorously  investigating the
allegations of securities fraud. The First Amended Derivative Complaint requests
that the Court order the defendants (other than the Company) to pay damages  and
expenses  to the Company and certain of the defendants to disgorge their profits
to the Company. On October 16, 1992,  the defendants moved to dismiss the  First
Amended Derivative Complaint on grounds that such Complaint fails to comply with
Delaware  Chancery  Court Rule  23.1 and  that  Count III  of the  First Amended
Derivative Complaint fails to state a  claim. No further proceedings have  taken
place.  The  Company  has been  advised  by  the individual  directors  named as
defendants that they believe they have meritorious defenses to this lawsuit  and
intend  vigorously  to  defend  against the  allegations  in  the  First Amended
Derivative  Complaint.  The  parties  have  engaged  in  preliminary  settlement
negotiations; however, there can be no assurances that these discussions will be
concluded successfully.
 
     The  Company was  named as a  nominal defendant in  a purported shareholder
derivative action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. Gary A. Singer, Steven G. Singer,
Brad C. Singer, Martin Singer,  John D. Collins II,  Back Bay Capital, Inc.,  G.
Albert  Griggs, Jr.,  John and  Jane Does 1-10  and The  Cooper Companies, Inc.,
which was filed on May 26, 1992 in  the Supreme Court of the State of New  York,
County  of  New York.  The plaintiff,  Bruce  D. Sturman,  a former  officer and
director of the  Company, alleged  that Gary A.  Singer, as  Co-Chairman of  the
Board  of Directors, and various members of the Singer family caused the Company
to make improper payments to alleged third-party co-conspirators as part of  the
'trading  scheme'  that was  the  subject of  the  SEC Complaint.  The complaint
requested that the Court  order the defendants (other  than the Company) to  pay
damages and expenses to the Company, including reimbursement of payments made by
the  Company  to  the co-conspirators,  and  to  disgorge their  profits  to the
Company. Pursuant to its  decision and order, filed  August 17, 1993, the  Court
dismissed  this action under  New York Civil Practice  Rule 327(a). On September
22, 1993, the plaintiff filed  a Notice of Appeal, and  the appeal was heard  by
the  Appellate Division in early January 1995;  no decision has been rendered by
the Appellate Court to date.
 
     In two  virtually identical  actions, Frank  H. Cobb,  Inc. v.  The  Cooper
Companies,  Inc., et al., and  Arthur J. Korf v.  The Cooper Companies, Inc., et
al., class action complaints were filed in the United States District Court  for
the  Southern  District of  New York  in  August 1989,  against the  Company and
certain individuals who served as officers and/or directors of the Company after
June 1987.  In their  Fourth  Amended Complaint  filed  in September  1992,  the
plaintiffs  allege that they are bringing the actions on their own behalf and as
class actions on behalf of  a class consisting of  all persons who purchased  or
otherwise  acquired shares of  the Company's common stock  during the period May
26, 1988 through February 13, 1989. The amended complaints seek an  undetermined
amount of compensatory damages jointly and severally against all defendants. The
complaints,   as  amended,  allege  that   the  defendants  knew  or  recklessly
disregarded and  failed to  disclose to  the investing  public material  adverse
information about the Company. Defendants are accused of having allegedly failed
to  disclose,  or  delayed  in  disclosing, among  other  things:  (a)  that the
allegedly real reason the Company announced on May 26, 1988 that it was dropping
a proposed  merger  with  Cooper  Development  Company,  Inc.  was  because  the
Company's banks were opposed to the merger; (b) that the proposed sale of Cooper
Technicon,  Inc., a  former subsidiary  of the  Company, was  not pursuant  to a
definitive sales agreement but merely an  option; (c) that such option  required
the  approval of the Company's  debentureholders and preferred stockholders; (d)
that the approval of such sale  by the Company's debentureholders and  preferred
stockholders  would not have been  forthcoming absent extraordinary expenditures
by the Company;  and (e)  that the purchase  agreement between  the Company  and
Miles, Inc. for the sale of
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Cooper  Technicon, Inc. included substantial penalties to be paid by the Company
if the sale was  not consummated within  certain time limits  and that the  sale
could  not  be  consummated within  those  time limits.  The  amended complaints
further allege that the defendants are liable for having violated Section  10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10(b)-5 thereunder and having engaged in
common  law  fraud. Based  on management's  current knowledge  of the  facts and
circumstances surrounding the  events alleged  by plaintiffs as  giving rise  to
their  claims, the  Company believes that  it has meritorious  defenses to these
lawsuits. The  Company has  reached  a settlement  with  counsel for  the  class
plaintiffs,  which  will  have no  material  impact on  the  Company's financial
condition. In  December  1994,  the  Court  gave  preliminary  approval  to  the
settlement,  ordered notice  to be  given to putative  class members,  and set a
hearing for April  7, 1995 to  consider possible objections  to the  settlement.
Therefore,  there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  proposed  settlement  will
ultimately end the  litigation. In  the event the  case proceeds  to trial,  the
Company  intends  to vigorously  defend itself  against  the allegations  in the
amended complaint.
 
     Under an agreement dated July 11,  1985, as amended (the 'HMG  Agreement'),
Hampton  Medical Group, P.A. ('HMG'), which  is not affiliated with the Company,
contracted to provide clinical and  clinical administrative services at  Hampton
Psychiatric  Institute ('Hampton  Hospital'), the  primary facility  operated by
Hospital Group of New  Jersey, Inc. ('HGNJ'), a  subsidiary of HGA. On  November
29,  1993 and February 1, 1994, HGNJ delivered notices to HMG asserting that HMG
had defaulted  under the  HMG Agreement.  The first  notice was  based upon  the
failure of HMG to provide to HGNJ records needed to analyze information HGNJ had
received  indicating  that  HMG  allegedly  had  engaged  in  fraudulent billing
practices; the second  was based  upon information  uncovered in  the review  of
those   records,  when  they  were  ultimately  produced,  and  other  available
information. At the request of  HMG, a New York  state court enjoined HGNJ  from
terminating  the HMG  Agreement based  upon the  initial notice  and ordered the
parties (on consent)  to arbitrate  whether HMG  had defaulted.  On February  2,
1994,  HMG  commenced an  arbitration in  New York,  New York,  entitled Hampton
Medical Group, P.A. and Hospital Group of New Jersey, P.A. (American Arbitration
Association). In the arbitration, HMG contests the alleged default under the HMG
Agreement and HGNJ's  allegations regarding fraudulent  conduct, and advances  a
claim  against HGNJ  that HMG  has the  right to  provide clinical  and clinical
administrative services at all HGNJ-owned facilities in New Jersey (which  would
include,  HMG contends,  the outpatient clinics  in Marlton and  Toms River, New
Jersey, and the Hampton Academy, at  which certain non-HMG physicians have  been
employed  at various times since the  HMG Agreement was executed), regardless of
whether these facilities are connected  to Hampton Hospital. HMG maintains  that
it  is entitled  to an  unspecified amount of  damages for  professional fees it
would have received  for the  clinical services  that were  provided by  non-HMG
physicians  at  the  outpatient facilities.  HGNJ  has responded  to  this claim
asserting, among other things, (1) that HMG has no contractual right to  provide
services at those facilities, (2) that HMG has waived or lost any such right, if
it  ever had one, and (3) that the  assertions of billing fraud are a defense to
any such right.
 
     As HGNJ's knowledge of HMG's billing practices developed, HGNJ notified the
authorities and, subsequently, Blue  Cross and Blue Shield  of New Jersey,  Inc.
('Blue  Cross'), the largest of the third  party payors from which HGNJ received
payment for its hospital services from 1988 through 1994.
 
     During December 1994,  Blue Cross  informed HGNJ that  it had  investigated
matters  at  Hampton Hospital,  that it  had formed  the view  that it  had been
overcharged as a result of those matters, including fraudulent practices of  HMG
which  resulted in increased hospital bills  to Blue Cross subscribers, and that
it intended promptly to  commence a lawsuit  to recover amounts  inappropriately
charged.  On December 30, 1994, Blue Cross and HGNJ entered into an agreement to
settle all claims against Hampton Hospital  on behalf of Blue Cross  subscribers
and  certain  other  subscribers for  whom  Blue Cross  administers  claims. The
settlement includes  a cash  payment,  over time,  by  HGNJ, offset  by  certain
amounts  owed by  Blue Cross to  HGNJ. On the  same day, Blue  Cross commenced a
lawsuit against HMG and  certain related entities  and individuals unrelated  to
HGNJ  or  its  affiliates  alleging,  among  other  things,  fraudulent  billing
practices.   HGNJ   is   cooperating   with   Blue   Cross   in   Blue    Cross'
 
 

                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
investigation  of HMG. HGNJ has also received a request for information from the
State  of  New  Jersey  Department  of  Insurance  with  respect  to  a  related
investigation, with which HGNJ is also cooperating.
 
     HGNJ is continuing to seek the termination of the HMG Agreement and intends
to  seek recovery from HMG for any losses, expenses or other damages HGNJ incurs
by reason of  HMG's conduct, including  amounts paid or  offset pursuant to  the
Blue  Cross settlement and any damages that may result from any future claims by
other third  party payors  or others  arising out  of the  billing practices  at
Hampton  Hospital, which claims  could, in the  aggregate, be material; however,
management of the  Company, after  consultation with counsel,  does not  believe
that the outcome of such claims (should any be brought) would, in the aggregate,
have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  financial  condition. In
addition, HGA is seeking  to recover damages  from Progressions Health  Systems,
Inc.,  the  successor  to  the  former owner  of  HGA,  based  upon  breaches of
representations and  warranties in  the purchase  agreement or  other rights  of
indemnification thereunder. There can be no assurance, however, that HGA will be
able  to recover the amount of any or  all such losses, expenses or damages from
HMG or Progressions Health Systems, Inc.
 
     On September 2, 1993, a patent infringement complaint was filed against the
Company in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada captioned
Steven P. Shearing v. The Cooper Companies, Inc. On or about that same day,  the
plaintiff  filed twelve additional complaints,  accusing at least fourteen other
defendants of infringing  the same patent.  The patent in  these suits covers  a
specific  method of implanting an intraocular  lens into the eye. Until February
1989, the Company  manufactured intraocular lenses  and ophthalmic  instruments,
but  did not engage in  the implantation of such  lenses. Subsequent to February
1989, the Company  was not  involved in the  manufacture, marketing  or sale  of
intraocular  lenses.  On  April  4,  1994,  all  of  Shearing's  complaints were
dismissed; thereafter, Shearing successfully moved for leave to file an  amended
complaint.  The Company  denies the  material allegations  of Shearings' amended
complaint. The parties  have executed a  settlement agreement effective  January
24, 1995, pursuant to which the litigation will be dismissed. The settlement has
no material impact on the Company's financial condition.
 
     The  Company was named in an action entitled Bruce D. Sturman v. The Cooper
Companies, Inc. and Does 1-100, Inclusive, first brought on July 24, 1992 in the
Superior Court  of the  State of  California, Los  Angeles County.  Mr.  Sturman
alleged  that his suspension  from his position  as Co-Chairman of  the Board of
Directors constituted,  among  other  things,  an  anticipatory  breach  of  his
employment  agreement.  On  May 14,  1993,  Mr.  Sturman filed  a  First Amended
Complaint in the Superior Court of  the State of California, County of  Alameda,
Eastern  Division,  the  jurisdiction  to  which  the  original  case  had  been
transferred. In  the  Amended  Complaint,  Mr. Sturman  alleged  that  by  first
suspending  and  then  terminating him  from  his position  as  Co-Chairman, the
Company breached his employment agreement, violated provisions of the California
Labor Code, wrongfully terminated  him in violation  of public policy,  breached
its  implied covenant of good  faith and fair dealing,  defamed him, invaded his
privacy and  intentionally  inflicted  emotional  distress,  and  was  otherwise
fraudulent,  deceitful  and negligent.  After  engaging in  prolonged settlement
negotiations, a settlement was  reached, and on December  2, 1994, the case  was
dismissed with prejudice. The settlement has no material impact on the Company's
financial condition.
 

                                                                    SCHEDULE III
 
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 

 
     The  condensed financial statements presented in  this Schedule III are the
parent company only condensed financial statements of The Cooper Companies, Inc.
(the  'Registrant').  The  Registrant  accounts  for  its  investments  in   its
consolidated  subsidiaries, all of  which are virtually  wholly owned, under the
equity  method.  Accordingly,   net  loss   applicable  to   common  stock   and
shareholders'  equity (deficit) reported  in this Schedule III  are equal to the
figures  reported  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  of  The  Cooper
Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries ('Consolidated Statements') located herein. See
the notes to the Consolidated Statements for disclosures concerning the material
contingencies and long-term obligations of the Registrant.
 
 

                                                                    SCHEDULE III
 
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
 

 
 

                                                                    SCHEDULE III
 
                           THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
     For  other  supplemental disclosures,  all of  which  relate to  the Cooper
Companies, Inc., see 'The Cooper  Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows' herein.
 
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                  THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994
 

 
- ------------
 
(1) Represents acquired reserve of CoastVision, Inc.
 
(2) Represents acquired reserve of Hospital Group of America, Inc.
 
(3) Uncollectible accounts written off, recovered accounts receivable previously
    written off and other items.
 

ITEM  9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON  ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     During fiscal years 1994 and 1993, TCC neither changed its accountants  nor
reported  a disagreement on Form  8-K on any matter  of accounting principles or
practices of financial statement disclosure.
 
                                    PART III
 
     The information required by  Part III, Items  10, 11, 12  and 13, has  been
omitted  from this Report pursuant to Instruction  G(3) as it will be filed with
the Securities and Exchange  Commission by an amendment  to this Report on  Form
10-K-A.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (a) Documents filed as part of this report:
 
1. Financial Statements of the Company.
 
     The  Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto, the Financial
Statement Schedules identified in (2) below  and the Accountants' Report on  the
foregoing are included in Part II, Item 8 of this report.
 
2. Financial Statement Schedules of the Company.
 

 
     All  other  schedules  for  which  provision  is  made  in  the  applicable
accounting regulations  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  are  not
required  under the related  instructions or are  not applicable and, therefore,
have been omitted.
 
     Also included  herein are  separate company  Financial Statements  and  the
Notes  thereto, the Accountants' Report thereon and required Financial Statement
Schedules of:
 
          Hospital Group of America, Inc. and Subsidiaries
          CooperSurgical, Inc.
 
 

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
Board of Directors
HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC.:
 
     We have audited  the accompanying consolidated  balance sheets of  Hospital
Group of America, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of The Cooper Companies, Inc.)
and  subsidiaries as of October 31, 1994, October 31, 1993, and May 29, 1992 and
the related  consolidated statements  of operations,  stockholder's equity,  and
cash  flows for the years ended October 31,  1994, and 1993, for the period from
May 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992 and for the period from June 1, 1991 to May 29,
1992. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we
also audited  financial statement  schedule VIII.  These consolidated  financial
statements  and  financial statement  schedule are  the responsibility  of HGA's
management. Our responsibility is  to express an  opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We  conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In  our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements  referred to above
present fairly, in  all material  respects, the financial  position of  Hospital
Group  of America, Inc. and  subsidiaries at October 31,  1994, October 31, 1993
and May 29, 1992, and the results of their operations, and their cash flows  for
the  years ended October 31, 1994 and 1993,  for the period from May 30, 1992 to
October 31,  1992 and  for the  period from  June 1,  1991 to  May 29,  1992  in
conformity  with generally accepted accounting  principles. Also in our opinion,
the related financial  statement schedule,  when considered in  relation to  the
basic  consolidated financial statements  taken as a  whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
January 11, 1995
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING
 
     On May 29, 1992, The Cooper Companies, Inc. ('Cooper' or 'Parent') acquired
all  of  the common  stock of  Hospital Group  of America,  Inc. (HGA)  from its
ultimate parent, Nu-Med, Inc. (Nu-Med). The acquisition of HGA was accounted for
as a purchase and  the purchase adjustments were  'pushed-down' to the  separate
financial statements of HGA resulting in a new basis of accounting as of May 30,
1992.  The  Parent's  cost of  the  acquisition was  approximately  $50 million,
including the assumption  of approximately  $22 million of  third-party debt  of
HGA.  The purchase price was allocated to  assets and liabilities based on their
estimated fair values as  of the acquisition date.  The purchase price  exceeded
the  estimated fair value  of the identifiable net  assets acquired resulting in
goodwill. The estimated goodwill amount of $6,155,000 was recorded as of May 30,
1992 and is being amortized over 30 years on a straight-line basis.
 
BUSINESS
 
     The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts  of
HGA and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the 'Company'). All intercompany balances
and  transactions  have  been  eliminated. The  Company  owns  and  operates the
following psychiatric facilities:
 

 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
 
     Effective May 30, 1992, PSG Management, Inc. (PSG), a sister company to HGA
and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cooper, entered into a three year agreement  to
manage  the two psychiatric  hospitals and the  substance abuse treatment center
owned by the subsidiaries of Nu-Med, Inc. The management fee earned by PSG  from
the  subsidiaries  of  Nu-Med,  Inc. related  to  this  agreement  is $2,000,000
annually, payable in  equal monthly  installments. The  management agreement  is
jointly  and severally  guaranteed by  Nu-Med and  a wholly  owned subsidiary of
Nu-Med, Inc. HGA is not a party  to this agreement and therefore the  management
fee earned by PSG from the subsidiaries of Nu-Med, Inc. is not recognized in the
accompanying  financial statements. However, in  connection with this agreement,
HGA performs services  on behalf  of PSG  for which  it earns  a fee  of 25%  of
certain of its corporate headquarters' cost plus a 20% mark-up. Such fees earned
by  HGA  from PSG  amounted to  $428,000 for  the year  ended October  31, 1994,
$691,000 for the year ended  October 31, 1993 and  $260,000 for the period  from
May 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992. On January 6, 1993, Nu-Med (but not any of its
direct  or indirect subsidiaries) filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of
the United States  Bankruptcy Code.  Such filing,  under certain  circumstances,
could  have a material  adverse effect on  the guarantee as  to Nu-Med. However,
none of the  Nu-Med subsidiaries  have filed under  Chapter 11,  and the  Nu-Med
subsidiaries have paid the management fee on a timely basis.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
     The  following are subsidiaries of Nu-Med  which own the facilities managed
by PSG:
 

 
NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net patient service  revenue is  recorded at the  estimated net  realizable
amounts  from patients,  third-party payors,  and others  for services rendered,
including estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements  with
third-party payors. Retroactive adjustments are accrued on an estimated basis in
the period the related services are rendered and adjusted in the period as final
settlements are determined.
 
CHARITY CARE
 
     The  Company provides care  to indigent patients  who meet certain criteria
under its  charity  care policy  without  charge or  at  amounts less  than  its
established  rates. Because  the Company does  not pursue  collection of amounts
determined to qualify  as charity care,  they are not  reported as revenue.  The
Company  maintains records to identify and monitor  the level of charity care it
provides. These records include the amount of charges foregone for services  and
supplies  furnished  under its  charity care  policy.  Charges at  the Company's
established rates forgone for charity care  provided by the Company amounted  to
$2,498,000  during the year  ended October 31, 1994,  $3,220,000 during the year
ended October 31, 1993  and $1,597,000 during  the period from  May 29, 1992  to
October  31, 1992. Hampton  Hospital is required  by its Certificate  of Need to
incur not less than 10% of total patient days as free care.
 
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
 
     The Company is self-insured  for the health  insurance coverage offered  to
its  employees. The provision for  estimated self-insured health insurance costs
includes management's estimates of the  ultimate costs for both reported  claims
and claims incurred but not reported.
 
SUPPLIES
 
     Supplies  consist principally  of medical  supplies and  are stated  at the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property and equipment are  stated at fair  value as of  May 29, 1992,  the
date  of  the acquisition  of HGA  by  Cooper. Depreciation  is computed  on the
straight-line method over the estimated  useful lives of the respective  assets,
which  range from  20 to 40  years for buildings  and improvements, and  5 to 10
years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
GOODWILL
 
     Goodwill is  amortized on  a  straight-line basis  over thirty  years.  The
Company  assesses  the recoverability  of  goodwill by  determining  whether the
amortization of the goodwill  balance over its remaining  life can be  recovered
through reasonably expected future results.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
OTHER ASSETS
 
     Loan  fees  incurred  in  obtaining long-term  financing  are  deferred and
recorded as other assets. Loan fees are amortized over the terms of the  related
loans.  The balance of unamortized loan fees amounted to $399,000, $540,000, and
$727,000 respectively, at October 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company  is included  in the  consolidated income  tax returns  of  the
Parent.  The consolidated federal,  state and local  taxes are subject  to a tax
sharing  agreement  under  which  the  Company's  liability  is  computed  on  a
non-consolidated basis using a combined rate of 40%
 
     Effective  November 1,  1993, the Company  adopted the  liability method of
accounting for income taxes as  prescribed by Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes' (FAS 109). The liability method
under  FAS 109  measures the  expected tax  impact of  future taxable  income or
deductions resulting  from  temporary  differences  in  the  tax  and  financial
reporting  bases of assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance
sheet. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using the enacted  tax
rates in effect for the year in which these differences are expected to reverse.
Under  FAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in
tax rates is recognized in the period  that the change was enacted. In 1993  and
prior years, the Company accounted for income taxes under APB Opinion 11.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  investments  in  highly  liquid debt
instruments with a maturity of three months or less.
 
RECLASSIFICATIONS
 
     Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform with  current
year presentation.
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The  Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide for
payments to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates.  A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
            Commercial Insurance -- Most commercial insurance carriers reimburse
            the  Company on the basis of  the hospitals' charges, subject to the
            rates and limits  specified in their  policies. Patients covered  by
            commercial   insurance   generally   remain   responsible   for  any
            differences between insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
            Blue Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue Cross plans varies  depending
            on  the areas  in which  the Company  presently operates facilities.
            Benefits paid  to  the  Company  can  be  charge-based,  cost-based,
            negotiated  per diem rates or approved  through a state rate setting
            process.
 
            Medicare -- Services rendered to Medicare program beneficiaries  are
            reimbursed under a retrospectively determined reasonable cost system
            with  final settlement  determined after  submission of  annual cost
            reports by the  Company and  audits thereof by  the Medicare  fiscal
            intermediary.
 
            Managed   Care  --  Services  rendered   to  subscribers  of  health
            maintenance  organizations,  preferred  provider  organizations  and
            similar organizations are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated
            rates.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
            Medicaid   --   Services   rendered   to   State   Medicaid  program
            beneficiaries are  reimbursed based  on  rates established  by  each
            individual State program.
 
     The  Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large insurance
companies and federal  and state  agencies or their  intermediaries. Other  than
adjustments  arising from audits by certain of  these agencies, the risk of loss
arising from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms  of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     The  current portion of Due to Parent at October 31, 1994 consists of costs
of amounts due under  a Demand Note  (the 'Demand Note')  for costs incurred  or
paid  by the Parent in  connection with the acquisition,  cash advances from the
Parent, interest payable on the subordinated  note in the amount of  $1,920,000,
and  an allocation of Cooper corporate  services amounting to $1,219,000, net of
payments to the Parent.
 
     All current and future borrowings under  the terms of the Demand Note  bear
interest, payable monthly, commencing on December 1, 1993 at the rate of 15% per
annum  (17% in the event  principal and interest is not  paid when due), and all
principal and all  accrued and unpaid  interest under the  Demand Note shall  be
completely  due and payable on demand. Prior to December 1, 1993, the Parent did
not charge the Company for  amounts due to it except  for amounts due under  the
Subordinated Promissory Note. The Parent has indicated that a demand for payment
will not be made prior to November 1, 1995.
 
     The  non-current  portion  of  Due  to  Parent  consists  of  a $16,000,000
subordinated note. The annual  interest rate on the  note is 12%. The  principal
amount  of this  Note shall be  due and payable  on May 29,  2002 unless payable
sooner pursuant to the terms of the Note.
 
     HGA allocates interest expense to PSG  primarily to reflect an estimate  of
the  interest cost on debt  incurred by HGA in connection  with the May 29, 1992
acquisition which  relates to  the PSG  management agreement  with Nu-Med.  Such
allocations  amounted to  $254,000 and $194,000  for the year  ended October 31,
1994 and October 31, 1993, respectively and $106,000 for the period from May 30,
1992 to October 31, 1992 and are recorded as reductions of interest on long-term
debt and interest on due to Parent note.
 
D. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participates in Cooper's 401(k) plan (the 'Plan'), which covers
substantially all full-time  employees with more  than 60 days  of service.  The
Company  matches employee contributions  up to certain  limits. These costs were
$61,000 for the year ended October 31, 1994, $40,000 for the year ended  October
31, 1993 and $26,000 for the period from May 30, 1992 to October 31, 1992.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
E. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt at October 31, 1994 and 1993 consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
     The  long-term  debt agreements  contain  several covenants,  including the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital  expenditures, interest  and debt  payments. The  Industrial  Revenue
Bonds  ('IRB') carries interest at 85% of prime, or approximately 6.6% per annum
at October 31, 1994. Interest and principal payments on the IRB are due  monthly
and  holders have elected their right  to accelerate all payments of outstanding
principal at December 31, 1995.
 
     Substantially all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable  of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In  the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in various
litigation cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of  such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
     The  Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating lease
agreements. The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due  under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of October 31, 1994:
 

 
- ----------------------------------------------------------
 
     Some  of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or increased
rental (based upon  increases in the  Consumer Price Index),  none of which  are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted  to $706,000 and $736,000, respectively, for the year ended October 31,
1994, and the year ended October 31,  1993 and $340,000 for the period from  May
30, 1992 to October 31, 1992.
 
G. INCOME TAXES
 
     As discussed in note A, the Company adopted FAS 109 as of November 1, 1993.
The  adoption had no impact on the  statement of consolidated operations for the
year  ended  October  31,  1994.  The   tax  benefit  for  net  operating   loss
carryforwards  has not  been recognized  since the  related tax  asset was fully
offset by a valuation allowance.
 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
the Company's consolidated statement  of operations and  the amount computed  by
applying the federal income tax rate to income (loss) from continuing operations
before income taxes follows:
 

 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
     The  tax effects  of temporary  differences that  give rise  to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at October  31,
1994 are as follows:
 

 
     The  Company's net deferred  tax liability was  offset against the Parent's
consolidated valuation allowance.  The net deferred  tax liability which  offset
the  Parent's  consolidated  valuation  allowance as  of  November  1,  1993 was
$3,950,000. The net change in  this offset for the  year ended October 31,  1994
was a decrease of $3,272,000.
 
     At  October  31,  1994  the  Parent  had  consolidated  net  operating loss
carryforwards of which approximately $10,000,000 related to the Company. The tax
benefit of  an  additional  $2,000,000  of  the  Company's  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  which have been utilized in  the Parent's consolidated return are
available in the future should the Company have sufficient taxable income during
the carryforward period. The net operating loss carryforwards expire  commencing
in 2001.
 
H. PLEDGE AGREEMENT
 
     Pursuant  to a pledge  agreement dated as  of January 6,  1994, between the
Parent and the  Trustee for the  holders of a  new class of  debt issued by  the
Parent  (the 'Notes') the Parent has  pledged a first priority security interest
in all of its right,  title and interest of its  investment in the Company,  all
additional shares of stock of, or other equity interest in the Company from time
to  time acquired by the Parent, all additional intercompany indebtedness of the
Company from time  to time held  by the Parent  and except as  set forth in  the
indenture  to the Notes, the  proceeds received from the  sale or disposition of
any or all of the foregoing.
 
I. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Under an agreement dated July 11,  1985, as amended (the 'HMG  Agreement'),
Hampton  Medical Group, P.A. ('HMG'), which  is not affiliated with the Company,
contracted to provide clinical and  clinical administrative services at  Hampton
Psychiatric  Institute ('Hampton  Hospital'), the  primary facility  operated by
HGNJ, a subsidiary  of HGA.  On November  29, 1993  and February  1, 1994,  HGNJ
delivered  notices  to  HMG  asserting  that HMG  had  defaulted  under  the HMG
Agreement. The first notice was based upon the failure of HMG to provide to HGNJ
records needed  to analyze  information HGNJ  had received  indicating that  HMG
allegedly had engaged in fraudulent billing practices; the
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           (A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.)
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
                AND PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992
 
second was based upon information uncovered in the review of those records, when
they  were ultimately produced, and other  available information. At the request
of HMG, a New York state court enjoined HGNJ from terminating the HMG  Agreement
based  upon the initial notice and ordered the parties (on consent) to arbitrate
whether HMG had defaulted. On February 2, 1994, HMG commenced an arbitration  in
New  York, New York, entitled Hampton Medical  Group, P.A. and Hospital Group of
New Jersey, P.A.  (American Arbitration  Association). In  the arbitration,  HMG
contests  the alleged  default under  the HMG  Agreement and  HGNJ's allegations
regarding fraudulent conduct, and advances a claim against HGNJ that HMG has the
right to provide clinical and clinical administrative services at all HGNJ-owned
facilities in  New Jersey  (which would  include, HMG  contends, the  outpatient
clinics in Marlton and Toms River, New Jersey, and the Hampton Academy, at which
certain  non-HMG physicians  have been employed  at various times  since the HMG
Agreement was executed), regardless of whether these facilities are connected to
Hampton Hospital. HMG maintains that it is entitled to an unspecified amount  of
damages  for professional fees it would  have received for the clinical services
that were provided by non-HMG physicians at the outpatient facilities. HGNJ  has
responded  to this  claim asserting,  among other  things, (1)  that HMG  has no
contractual right to  provide services  at those  facilities, (2)  that HMG  has
waived  or lost any such right, if it  ever had one, and (3) that the assertions
of billing fraud are a defense to any such right.
 
     As HGNJ's knowledge of HMG's billing practices developed, HGNJ notified the
authorities and, subsequently, Blue  Cross and Blue Shield  of New Jersey,  Inc.
('Blue  Cross'), the largest of the third  party payors from which HGNJ received
payment for its hospital services from 1988 through 1994.
 
     During December 1994,  Blue Cross  informed HGNJ that  it had  investigated
matters  at  Hampton Hospital,  that it  had formed  the view  that it  had been
overcharged as a result of those matters, including fraudulent practices of  HMG
which  resulted in increased hospital bills  to Blue Cross subscribers, and that
it intended promptly to  commence a lawsuit  to recover amounts  inappropriately
charged.  On December 30, 1994, Blue Cross and HGNJ entered into an agreement to
settle all claims against Hampton Hospital  on behalf of Blue Cross  subscribers
and  certain  other  subscribers for  whom  Blue Cross  administers  claims. The
settlement includes  a cash  payment,  over time,  by  HGNJ, offset  by  certain
amounts  owed by  Blue Cross to  HGNJ. On the  same day, Blue  Cross commenced a
lawsuit against HMG and  certain related entities  and individuals unrelated  to
HGNJ  or  its  affiliates  alleging,  among  other  things,  fraudulent  billing
practices. HGNJ is cooperating with Blue  Cross in Blue Cross' investigation  of
HMG.  HGNJ has  also received a  request for  information from the  State of New
Jersey Department of  Insurance with  respect to a  related investigation,  with
which HGNJ is also cooperating.
 
     HGNJ is continuing to seek the termination of the HMG Agreement and intends
to  seek recovery from HMG for any losses, expenses or other damages HGNJ incurs
by reason of  HMG's conduct, including  amounts paid or  offset pursuant to  the
Blue  Cross settlement and any damages that may result from any future claims by
other third  party payors  or others  arising out  of the  billing practices  at
Hampton  Hospital, which claims  could, in the  aggregate, be material; however,
management of the  Company, after  consultation with counsel,  does not  believe
that the outcome of such claims (should any be brought) would, in the aggregate,
have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the  Company's  financial  condition. In
addition, HGA is seeking  to recover damages  from Progressions Health  Systems,
Inc.,  the  successor  to  the  former owner  of  HGA,  based  upon  breaches of
representations and  warranties in  the purchase  agreement or  other rights  of
indemnification thereunder. There can be no assurance, however, that HGA will be
able  to recover the amount of any or  all such losses, expenses or damages from
HMG or Progressions Health Systems, Inc.
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                  MAY 29, 1992
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDER'S EQUITY
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                           (IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
 
BUSINESS
 
     The  accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Hospital  Group  of  America  (HGA)  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  (the
'Company') and certain other assets and operations owned by an entity affiliated
through  common ownership. HGA was a wholly owned subsidiary of PsychGroup, Inc.
which in turn is wholly owned by Nu-Med, Inc. The financial position and results
of operations  of  Hospital  Group  of America  and  its  subsidiaries  may  not
necessarily  be indicative of conditions that may have existed or the results of
operations if  the  Company had  been  operated  as an  affiliated  entity.  All
intercompany  balances and transactions  have been eliminated.  The Company owns
and operates the following psychiatric facilities:
 

 
BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     On May 29, 1992,  PSG Acquisition, Inc., a  wholly owned subsidiary of  the
Cooper  Companies, Inc. ('Cooper'),  acquired all of  the issued and outstanding
capital stock of HGA from PsychGroup, Inc. Concurrent with the acquisition,  all
due  from  related  parties balances  as  of  May 20,  1992  were  forgiven. The
accompanying financial statements represent  the financial position and  results
of  operations  of the  Company  as of  May 29,  1992  immediately prior  to the
acquisition and the period from June 1, 1991  to May 29, 1992 just prior to  the
acquisition and reflect the elimination of the due from related parties balances
as  of May  29, 1992  with a  corresponding charge  to retained  earnings in the
amount of $20,595,000.
 
NEW PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     Net patient service  revenue is  recorded at the  estimated net  realizable
amounts  from patients, third-party  payors, and others  from services rendered,
including estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements  with
third-party payors. Retroactive adjustments are accrued on an estimated basis in
the period the related services are rendered and adjusted in the period as final
settlements are determined.
 
CHARITY CARE
 
     The  Company provides care  to indigent patients  who meet certain criteria
under its  charity  care policy  without  charge or  at  amounts less  than  its
established  rates. Because  the Company does  not pursue  collection of amounts
determined to qualify  as charity care,  they are not  reported as revenue.  The
Company  maintains records to identify and monitor  the level of charity care it
provides. These records include the amount of charges foregone for services  and
supplies  furnished  under its  charity care  policy.  Charges at  the Company's
established rates foregone for charity care provided by the Company amounted  to
$4,768,000. Hampton Hospital is required by its Certificate of Need to incur not
less than 10% of total patient days as free care.
 
HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE
 
     Effective  October  1, 1991,  the Company  is  self-insured for  the health
insurance coverage  offered  to  its  employees.  The  provision  for  estimated
self-insured  health  insurance  costs includes  management's  estimates  of the
ultimate costs for both reported claims and claims incurred but not reported.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
SUPPLIES
 
     Supplies consist  principally of  medical supplies  and are  stated at  the
lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property  and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed on the
straight-line method over the estimated  useful lives of the respective  assets,
which  range from  20 to 40  years for buildings  and improvements, and  5 to 10
years for equipment, furniture and fixtures.
 
OTHER ASSETS
 
     Pre-opening costs  incurred in  new facilities  and loan  fees incurred  in
obtaining  long-term  financing  are  deferred  and  recorded  as  other assets.
Pre-opening costs are amortized  on a straight-line basis  over five years.  The
unamortized  portion of pre-opening costs was $21,000 at May 29, 1992. Loan fees
are amortized over the  terms of the related  loans. The balance of  unamortized
loan fees amounted to $802,000 at May 29, 1992.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The  Company was  included in the  consolidated tax returns  of Nu-Med. The
Company computes  a  tax provision  as  if it  were  a stand-alone  entity.  The
corresponding  liability for such taxes  is included in the  net amount Due from
Related Parties.
 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash and  cash  equivalents  include  investments  in  highly  liquid  debt
instruments with a maturity of three months or less.
 
B. NET PATIENT SERVICE REVENUE
 
     The  Company  has  agreements  with  third-party  payors  that  provide for
payments to  the Company  at amounts  different from  its established  rates.  A
summary of the payment arrangements with major third-party payors follows:
 
          Commercial  Insurance -- Most  commercial insurance carriers reimburse
     the Company on the  basis of the hospitals'  charges, subject to the  rates
     and  limits  specified in  their policies.  Patients covered  by commercial
     insurance  generally  remain  responsible   for  any  differences   between
     insurance proceeds and total charges.
 
          Blue Cross -- Reimbursement under Blue Cross plans varies depending on
     the areas in which the Company presently operates facilities. Benefits paid
     to  the Company can be charge-based,  cost-based, negotiated per diem rates
     or approved through a state rate setting process.
 
          Medicare -- Services  rendered to Medicare  program beneficiaries  are
     reimbursed  under a retrospectively determined  reasonable cost system with
     final settlement determined after submission of annual cost reports by  the
     Company and audits thereof by the Medicare fiscal intermediary.
 
          Managed Care -- Services rendered to subscribers of health maintenance
     organizations,  preferred provider organizations  and similar organizations
     are reimbursed based on prospective negotiated rates.
 
     The Company's  business  activities  are  primarily  with  large  insurance
companies  and federal  and state agencies  or their  intermediaries. Other than
adjustments arising from audits by certain  of these agencies, the risk of  loss
arising  from the failure of these entities to perform according to the terms of
their respective contracts is considered remote.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
C. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Due from related parties consisted primarily of cash advances to Nu-Med and
income tax obligations.
 
     Included in the Other Operating  Revenue are management fees of  $3,557,000
charged to other affiliated entities which are under common ownership.
 
     In  connection with  the acquisition of  HGA, all due  from related parties
balances as of May 29, 1992 were  forgiven and the balance of $20,595,000 as  of
that date was eliminated with a corresponding charge to retained earnings.
 
D. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     The Company participated in the Nu-Med Combined Savings Plan, (the 'Plan'),
which  covers substantially all  full-time employees with more  than one year of
service. Nu-Med may make annual contributions  to the Plan based upon  earnings,
which  the Plan may utilize to acquire  Nu-Med common stock. In addition, Nu-Med
may make contributions to the Plan in  the form of Nu-Med common stock. No  such
contributions  were made during the period ended  May 29, 1992. The Company does
not provide post-retirement benefits to its employees.
 
     Hartgrove had a defined benefit  pension plan, which was terminated  during
the  period ended May 29, 1992, at  which time all benefits became fully vested.
The excess  of  plan  assets  over vested  benefits  amounted  to  approximately
$94,000.  Such  amount  has been  recorded  as  other operating  revenue  in the
accompanying statement of earnings.
 
E. LONG TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt at May 29, 1992 consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
     The long-term  debt agreements  contain  several covenants,  including  the
maintenance of certain ratios and levels of net worth (as defined), restrictions
with respect to the payments of cash dividends on common stock and on the levels
of capital expenditures, interest and debt payments. In addition, the industrial
Revenue Bonds give the holders the right to accelerate all outstanding principal
at December 31, 1995 upon notification one year prior to that date.
 
     Substantially  all of the property and equipment and accounts receivable of
the Company collateralize the debt outstanding.
 
F. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the  normal course  of  business, the  Company  is involved  in  various
litigation  cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of such
litigation will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position.
 
     The Company  leases  certain  space and  equipment  under  operating  lease
agreements.  The following is a schedule of estimated minimum payments due under
such leases with an initial term of more than one year as of May 29, 1992:
 

 
     Some of the operating  leases contain provisions  for renewal or  increased
rental  (based upon increases  in the Consumer  Price Index), none  of which are
taken into account in the above table. Rental expense under all operating leases
amounted to $619,000.
 
     The provision for income taxes for the following period is composed of  the
following:
 

 
     The  provision for income taxes included  in the consolidated statements of
earnings differs  from the  amount computed  by applying  the statutory  federal
income  tax rate of 34% to earnings before  taxes due to the effect of the state
franchise taxes, net  of federal benefit.  This amounted to  6% for the  periods
presented.
 
     In  February 1992, the  Financial Accounting Standards  Board (FASB) issued
Statement of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109, 'Accounting  for  Income
Taxes.'  Cooper  and  the  Company  are required  to  adopt  the  new  method of
accounting for income  taxes no later  than the fiscal  year ending October  31,
1994.  Neither the Company nor Cooper has  completed an analysis to estimate the
impact of the statement on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
 
 

                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
                    PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY 29, 1992
 
G. SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     Pursuant to a  pledge agreement dated  as of January  6, 1994, between  the
Parent  and the trustee  for the holders  of a new  class of debt  issued by the
Parent (the 'Notes'), the Parent has pledged a first priority security  interest
in  all of its right, title and interest in stock of the Company, all additional
shares of stock of, or other equity  interest in, the Company from time to  time
acquired  by the Parent, all intercompany  indebtedness of the Company from time
to time held  by the  Parent and except  as set  forth in the  indenture to  the
Notes,  the proceeds received from the sale or  disposition of any or all of the
foregoing. A full description of the pledge agreement and terms of the indenture
to the Notes is included in the Parent's Amended and Restated Offer to  Exchange
and  Consent Solicitation filed  with the Securities  and Exchange Commission on
December 15, 1993.
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                HOSPITAL GROUP OF AMERICA, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
            YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1993
 PERIOD FROM MAY 30, 1992 TO OCTOBER 31, 1992, PERIOD FROM JUNE 1, 1991 TO MAY
                                    29, 1992
 

 
 

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
COOPERSURGICAL, INC.:
 
     We  have audited the accompanying balance sheets of CooperSurgical, Inc. as
of October  31,  1994  and  1993, and  the  related  statements  of  operations,
stockholders'  equity (deficit),  and cash  flows for each  of the  years in the
three-year period ended October 31, 1994.  In connection with our audits of  the
financial  statements, we also  have audited financial  statement schedule VIII.
These  financial  statements  and  the  financial  statement  schedule  are  the
responsibility  of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and the financial statement schedule based
on our audits.
 
     We conducted  our audits  in accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present  fairly,
in  all material respects, the financial  position of CooperSurgical, Inc. as of
October 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of its operations and its cash  flows
for  each  of the  years in  the three-year  period ended  October 31,  1994, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles. Also in our  opinion,
the  related financial  statement schedule, when  considered in  relation to the
basic financial statements taken  as a whole, presents  fairly, in all  material
respects, the information set forth therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Stamford, Connecticut
January 16, 1995
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                                 BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
 

 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                            STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
 

Non-cash investing and financing activities:
 
During fiscal 1994, CooperSurgical's Parent converted $19,011 of Parent advances
into 9,796,660 shares of CooperSurgical Series A convertible preferred stock.
 
                See accompanying notes to financial statements.
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
GENERAL
 
     CooperSurgical,  Inc. ('CooperSurgical'), a Delaware corporation, develops,
manufactures  and   distributes   electrosurgical,  cryosurgical   and   general
application diagnostic surgical instruments and equipment. The Cooper Companies,
Inc.  ('Parent'), a Delaware corporation, owns 100% of CooperSurgical's Series A
convertible preferred stock. CooperSurgical's  outstanding common stock is  100%
owned by individuals on the CooperSurgical Advisory Board which provides counsel
and management of clinical trials in the area of minimally invasive surgery. The
accompanying  financial statements have been  prepared from the separate records
of CooperSurgical  and may  not be  indicative of  conditions which  would  have
existed or the results of its operations if CooperSurgical operated autonomously
(see note 4). Foreign exchange translation and transactions are immaterial.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON PARENT
 
     CooperSurgical has incurred substantial losses and negative cash flows from
operations.  The  Company has,  therefore, been  dependent  upon its  Parent for
financing to meet its cash obligations.
 
     During fiscal 1994,  the Company has  streamlined its sales  force and  its
customer service organization, reduced advertising expenditures and consolidated
administrative   functions  to  reduce  costs.   These  actions,  combined  with
reductions in inventories and receivables,  have resulted in reduced losses  and
improved  operating cash flows  in the fiscal  year ended October  31, 1994. The
Company believes that such actions will  permit it to meet its cash  obligations
until its liability to its parent matures.
 
     The  Company's Parent has extended the  maturity of the Company's liability
to Parent until  May 1,  1997 and  is committed  to funding  the Company's  cash
requirements until that date.
 
     The  Company does not expect to be able to repay its liability to Parent at
maturity without a  significant improvement  in operating  results from  present
levels.  There can be no assurance that  such an improvement will be achieved or
that the  Parent  will  extend  further  the  maturity  date  of  the  Company's
liability.
 
REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
     CooperSurgical  recognizes  product  revenue  when  risk  of  ownership has
transferred to the buyer,  net of appropriate provisions  for sales returns  and
bad debts.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     CooperSurgical  is included in  the consolidated income  tax returns of the
Parent. The consolidated  federal, state and  local taxes are  subject to a  tax
sharing  agreement  under  which  CooperSurgical's liability  is  computed  on a
non-consolidated basis using a combined rate of 40%.
 
     Effective November 1, 1993, CooperSurgical adopted the liability method  of
accounting  for income taxes as prescribed  by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, 'Accounting for Income Taxes' (FAS 109). The liability method
under FAS  109 measures  the expected  tax impact  of future  taxable income  or
deductions  resulting  from  temporary  differences  in  the  tax  and financial
reporting bases of assets and liabilities reflected in the consolidated  balance
sheet.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using the enacted tax
rates in effect for the year in which these differences are expected to reverse.
Under FAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change  in
tax  rates is recognized in the period that  the change was enacted. In 1993 and
prior years, the Company accounted for income taxes under APB Opinion 11.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
 
     In December  1992,  the  FASB  issued  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No. 112,  'Employers' Accounting  for Postemployment  Benefits' ('FAS
112'). FAS  112  establishes  accounting standards  for  employers  who  provide
benefits  to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement
('postemployment benefits'). Postemployment benefits  are all types of  benefits
provided  to  former or  inactive  employees, their  beneficiaries,  and covered
dependents. Those benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation,
supplemental  unemployment  benefits,  severance  benefits,   disability-related
benefits  (including workers'  compensation), job  training and  counseling, and
continuation  of  benefits  such  as  healthcare  benefits  and  life  insurance
coverage.
 
     FAS  112 is effective  for fiscal years beginning  after December 15, 1993.
The Parent and CooperSurgical  will adopt FAS 112  as required, and believe  the
adoption   will  not  have  a  material  impact  on  CooperSurgical's  financial
statements.
 
INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are carried at the lower of cost, determined on an average cost
basis, or market.
 
FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Furniture and equipment are  carried at cost.  Depreciation is computed  on
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of depreciable assets.
 
AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLES
 
     Amortization   is  currently  provided  on   all  intangible  assets  on  a
straight-line basis over  periods up  to 20 years.  Accumulated amortization  at
October 31, 1994 and 1993 was $1,136,000 and $831,000, respectively. The Company
assesses  the  recoverability of  intangible assets  by determining  whether the
amortization of the intangible  asset over its remaining  life can be  recovered
through reasonably expected future results.
 
RECLASSIFICATIONS
 
     Certain  amounts for fiscal  years 1993 and 1992  have been reclassified to
conform with the current year's presentation.
 
(2) EXPORT SALES
 
     CooperSurgical had export sales  of $2,441,000, $2,200,000, and  $2,096,000
for the years ended October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
 
(3) ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
 
     CooperSurgical  utilized  a  cash  concentration  account  with  the Parent
whereby approximately $193,000 and $131,000 of checks issued and outstanding  at
October 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively, in excess of related bank cash balances
were  reclassified to accounts payable. Sufficient funds were available from the
Parent to cover these checks.
 
(4) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Included in CooperSurgical's  selling, general  and administrative  expense
are  Parent allocations for  technical service fees  of $514,000, $1,312,000 and
$341,000 for the  years ended  October 31,  1994, 1993  and 1992,  respectively.
Technical  service fees  for the  year ended  October 31,  1993 include $134,000
relating to redetermination of the appropriate amount for the year ended October
31, 1992. These costs
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
are charges  from the  Parent  for accounting,  legal,  tax and  other  services
provided to CooperSurgical and are added to the balance Due to Parent.
 
     Amounts due to the Parent at October 31, 1994 and 1993 were composed of the
following:
 

 
     On  December  1,  1993,  CooperSurgical  converted  all  outstanding Parent
advances into a promissory note bearing interest at 15%. Under the terms of this
note, all principal and unpaid interest was due and payable on demand.
 
     On January  24,  1994,  CooperSurgical's Parent  converted  $19,011,000  of
Parent  advances into  9,796,660 shares  of CooperSurgical  Series A convertible
preferred stock  and  converted  the  remaining  $3,313,000  balance  of  Parent
advances  into a Term  Note, with principal  and interest due  January 24, 1996,
bearing interest  at  12%, compounded  monthly  (Parent advances  in  excess  of
$4,000,000  bear interest at 15%, compounded  monthly). On January 10, 1995, the
maturity date of this Term Note  for principal plus any accrued unpaid  interest
was extended to May 1, 1997.
 
(5) INCOME TAXES
 
     As  discussed in note 1,  CooperSurgical adopted FAS 109  as of November 1,
1993. The adoption had  no impact on  the statement of  operations for the  year
ended October 31, 1994. The tax benefit for net operating loss carryforwards has
not  been  recognized  since the  related  tax  assets were  fully  offset  by a
valuation allowance.
 
     A reconciliation of the provision for (benefit of) income taxes included in
CooperSurgical's statement of operations and the amount computed by applying the
federal income  tax rate  to  income (loss)  from continuing  operations  before
extraordinary items and income taxes follows:
 

 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The  tax effects  of temporary  differences that  give rise  to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at October  31,
1994 are as follows:
 

 
     The  valuation allowance for deferred tax assets as of November 1, 1993 was
$5,330,000. The net change in the  total valuation allowance for the year  ended
October 31, 1994 was an increase of $1,250,000.
 
     At  October  31,  1994  the  Parent  had  consolidated  net  operating loss
carryforwards, of which approximately $12,000,000 related to CooperSurgical. The
tax benefit of  an additional  $2,000,000 of CooperSurgical  net operating  loss
carryforwards  which have been utilized in  the Parent's consolidated return are
available in the  future should  CooperSurgical have  sufficient taxable  income
during  the  carryforward period.  The net  operating loss  carryforwards expire
commencing in 2006.
 
(6) LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 
     Annual  maturities  of  long-term  debt,  including  current   installments
thereof, are as follows:
 

 
(7) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
     In the normal course of its business, CooperSurgical is involved in various
litigation  cases.  In  the  opinion  of  management,  the  disposition  of such
litigation will  not  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  CooperSurgical's
financial condition.
 
 

                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                  NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     CooperSurgical  leases certain property and equipment under operating lease
agreements. The following  is a schedule  of the estimated  minimum payment  due
under  such leases with an initial term of  more than one year as of October 31,
1994:
 

 
     Rental expense for all leases amounted to approximately $311,000,  $340,000
and $322,000 for the years ended October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
 
(8) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
     CooperSurgical employees are eligible to participate in the Parent's 401(k)
Savings  Plan, a  defined contribution plan  and the  Parent's Retirement Income
Plan, a defined  benefit plan. As  of October 31,  1994, CooperSurgical has  not
elected  to  participate  in  the Parent's  Retirement  Income  Plan.  Costs and
expenses of administration of the Parent's 401(k) Savings Plan are allocated  to
CooperSurgical  as appropriate. These  costs were not  significant for the years
ended October 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.
 
(9) SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
 
     The Series A Convertible Preferred  Stock is convertible into Common  Stock
on  a one-to-one  basis, subject to  adjustment for stock  splits, dividends and
certain other distributions of Common Stock  and has voting rights equal to  the
number of shares of Common Stock into which it is convertible. CooperSurgical is
required  to reserve for issuance, shares of Common Stock equal to the shares of
Preferred Stock issued and  outstanding at any given  date. The Preferred  Stock
has  a  liquidation preference  of $1.940625  per  share and  accrues cumulative
dividends  of  $0.1940625  per  share  per  annum.  The  aggregate   liquidation
preference  of  the Preferred  Stock at  October 31,  1994 is  $20,253,000, plus
cumulative dividends  of $2,274,000.  The Preferred  Stock participates  ratably
with the Common Stock in any additional dividends declared beyond the cumulative
dividends  and in  any remaining assets  beyond the  liquidation preference. The
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock represents 99.8% of the total voting rights
of all outstanding CooperSurgical stock.
 
 

                                                                   SCHEDULE VIII
 
                              COOPERSURGICAL, INC.
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                       THREE YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 31, 1994
 

 
 

3. Exhibits.
 

 
 

 

 
       (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
           None.
 
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant  to  the requirements  of Section  13 or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on January 24, 1995.
 
                                          THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC.
 
                                          By:       /S/ ALLAN E. RUBENSTEIN
                                               .................................
 
                                                    ALLAN E. RUBENSTEIN
                                             CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on January   , 1995.
 

 
 

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
 

 


 



                                  STATEMENT OF DIFFERENCES









