
10-K405
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                            ------------------------

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-2189

                     [LOGO]            ABBOTT LABORATORIES



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS
REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                                 YES _X_ NO ____

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST
OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K. [X]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE 1,439,038,517 SHARES OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY
NONAFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT, COMPUTED BY USING THE CLOSING PRICE AS REPORTED
ON THE CONSOLIDATED TRANSACTION REPORTING SYSTEM FOR ABBOTT LABORATORIES COMMON
SHARES WITHOUT PAR VALUE ON JANUARY 31, 2000, WAS APPROXIMATELY $46,858,691,709.
ABBOTT HAS NO NON-VOTING COMMON EQUITY.

NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF JANUARY 31, 2000: 1,547,694,358.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF THE ABBOTT LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED
DECEMBER 31, 1999 ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PARTS I, II, AND IV.

PORTIONS OF THE 2000 ABBOTT LABORATORIES PROXY STATEMENT ARE INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE INTO PART III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

    Abbott Laboratories is an Illinois corporation, incorporated in 1900.
Abbott's* principal business is the discovery, development, manufacture, and
sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products and services.

              FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS,
               GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

    Incorporated herein by reference is the Note entitled "Segment and
Geographic Area Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in the Abbott Laboratories Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1999
(1999 Annual Report), filed as an exhibit to this report.

                       NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

    Abbott has five reporting revenue segments: Pharmaceutical Products,
Diagnostic Products, Hospital Products, Ross Products, and International. Abbott
also has a 50 percent owned joint venture, TAP Holdings Inc.

PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS

    This segment's products include a broad line of adult and pediatric
pharmaceuticals which are sold primarily on the prescription or recommendation
of physicians.

    The principal products included in this segment are the anti-infectives
clarithromycin, sold in the United States under the trademark
Biaxin-Registered Trademark-, and various forms of erythromycin, sold primarily
as PCE-Registered Trademark- or polymer coated erythromycin,
Erythrocin-Registered Trademark-, and E.E.S.-Registered Trademark-; agents for
the treatment of epilepsy, migraine, and bipolar disorder, including
Depakote-Registered Trademark- and Gabitril-Registered Trademark-; a broad line
of urology products, including Flomax-Registered Trademark- for the treatment of
benign prostatic hyperplasia; Abbokinase-Registered Trademark-, a thrombolytic
drug; TriCor-Registered Trademark- for the treatment of elevated triglycerides;
and the anti-viral Norvir-Registered Trademark-, a protease inhibitor for the
treatment of HIV infection. In addition, this segment co-promotes the proton
pump inhibitor Prevacid-Registered Trademark- (lansoprazole) for the short-term
treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive esophagitis, under an
agreement with TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc.

    This segment markets its products in the United States. These products are
generally sold directly to wholesalers, government agencies, health care
facilities, and independent retailers from Abbott-owned distribution centers and
public warehouses. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical products are
directed toward securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products by
physicians. Managed care purchasers (for example, health maintenance
organizations and pharmacy benefit managers) are increasingly important
customers.

    Competition is generally from other broad line pharmaceutical companies. A
significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations.
The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices
and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor.
In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has
increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.

- ------------------------

*   As used throughout the text of this report on Form 10-K, the term "Abbott"
    refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott
    Laboratories and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.


DIAGNOSTIC PRODUCTS

    This segment's products include diagnostic systems and tests for blood
banks, hospitals, commercial laboratories, alternate-care testing sites, and
consumers.

    The principal products included in this segment are systems and reagents
used to perform immunoassay tests including Architect-Registered Trademark-,
AxSYM-Registered Trademark-, IMx-Registered Trademark-, Abbott Quantum-TM-;
Commander-Registered Trademark-, and Abbott PRISM-Registered Trademark- lines of
instruments and chemical reagents; screening tests for hepatitis B, HTLV-I/II,
hepatitis B core, and hepatitis C; tests for detection of HIV antibodies and
antigens, and other infectious disease detection systems; tests for determining
levels of abused drugs; physiological diagnostic tests; cancer monitoring tests
including tests for prostate specific antigen; therapeutic drug monitoring tests
and systems such as TDx-Registered Trademark- and TDxFlx-Registered Trademark-;
the Murex-Registered Trademark- line of microtiter-based immunoassay test kits;
the LCx-Registered Trademark- amplified probe system and reagents; the Abbott
TestPack-Registered Trademark- and Determine-Registered Trademark- systems for
rapid diagnostic testing; clinical chemistry systems such as Abbott
Spectrum-Registered Trademark-, Aeroset-Registered Trademark-,
Alcyon-Registered Trademark-, and Abbott Vision-Registered Trademark-; a full
line of hematology systems and reagents known as the
Cell-Dyn-Registered Trademark- series; the MediSense-Registered Trademark- line
of blood glucose monitoring meters and test strips for diabetics including
Precision Xtra-Registered Trademark-, Precision Q.I.D.-Registered Trademark-,the
ExacTech-Registered Trademark-, the MediSense II-TM-, the ExacTech
RSG-Registered Trademark-, Precision G-Registered Trademark- and Precision
PCx-Registered Trademark- hospital systems; and the Fact
Plus-Registered Trademark- and Fact Plus-Registered Trademark- One Step
pregnancy tests. In addition, this segment distributes the
i-STAT-Registered Trademark- point-of-care testing system through an exclusive
long-term sales and marketing alliance with i-STAT Corporation.

    This segment markets its products worldwide. These products are generally
marketed and sold directly to hospitals, laboratories, and physicians' offices
from Abbott-owned distribution centers and public warehouses. Outside the United
States, sales are made either directly to customers or through distributors,
depending on the market served. Blood glucose monitoring meters and test strips
for diabetics and the Fact Plus-Registered Trademark- and Fact
Plus-Registered Trademark- One Step pregnancy tests are sold over the counter to
consumers.

    This segment's products are subject to competition in technological
innovation, price, convenience of use, service, instrument warranty provisions,
product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for
overall cost-effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment
can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Abbott has benefitted from
technological advantages of certain of its current products; however, these
advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.
For a specified period, certain of this segment's products are subject to
restrictions on their sale in the United States. These restrictions are
discussed in Regulation on page 7.

HOSPITAL PRODUCTS

    This segment's products include drugs and drug delivery systems,
perioperative and intensive care products, cardiovascular products, renal
products, oncology products, intravenous and irrigation solutions, related
manual and electronic administration equipment, and diagnostic imaging products
for hospitals and alternate-care sites.

    The principal products included in this segment are hospital injectables
including Carpuject-Registered Trademark- and FirstChoice-Registered Trademark-
generics; premixed intravenous drugs in various containers;
ADD-Vantage-Registered Trademark- and Nutrimix-Registered Trademark- drug and
nutritional delivery systems; anesthetics, including
Pentothal-Registered Trademark-, Amidate-Registered Trademark-,
Ultane-Registered Trademark-, isoflurane, and enflurane; products for anxiety,
nausea and pain associated with surgery; cardiovascular products including
Techstar-Registered Trademark-, Prostar-Registered Trademark-, and The
Closer-TM- vessel closure products, Opticath-Registered Trademark- and OptiQ-TM-
advanced sensor catheters, Transpac-Registered Trademark- for hemodynamic
monitoring, peripheral wires, catheters, and other specialty cardiac products;
Calcijex-Registered Trademark- and Zemplar-TM-, injectable agents for treatment
of bone disease in hemodialysis patients; intravenous solutions and related
administration equipment sold as the LifeCare-Registered Trademark- line of
products, LifeShield-Registered Trademark- needleless products, and
Venoset-Registered Trademark- products; irrigating fluids; parenteral
nutritionals such as Aminosyn-Registered Trademark- and
Liposyn-Registered Trademark-; Plum-Registered Trademark-,
Omni-Flow-Registered Trademark-, and Abbott AIM-Registered Trademark- electronic
drug delivery systems; Abbott Pain Manager-Registered Trademark-;
patient-controlled analgesia systems; venipuncture products; diagnostic imaging
products used in MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and CT (computed tomography)
imaging;


and Faultless-Registered Trademark- rubber sundry products. In the fourth
quarter of 1999, Abbott acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Perclose, Inc., a company that designs, manufactures, and markets less invasive
medical devices that automate the surgical closure or connection of blood
vessels.

    This segment markets its products in the United States. They are generally
distributed to wholesalers and directly to hospitals from Abbott-owned
distribution centers and public warehouses. This segment also develops and
manufactures products for other companies.

    This segment's products are subject to competition in technological
innovation, price, convenience of use, instrument warranty provisions, service,
product performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for
overall cost effectiveness and productivity gains. Some products in this segment
can be subject to rapid product obsolescence. Abbott has benefitted from
technological advantages of certain of its current products; however, these
advantages may be reduced or eliminated as competitors introduce new products.

ROSS PRODUCTS

    This segment's products include a broad line of adult and pediatric
nutritionals. These products are sold primarily on the recommendation of
physicians or other health care professionals. The segment also includes
specialty pharmaceuticals and consumer products.

    Principal nutritional products include various forms of prepared infant
formula, including Similac-Registered Trademark-, Isomil-Registered Trademark-,
Alimentum-Registered Trademark-, and NeoSure-Registered Trademark-; and other
adult and pediatric products, including Ensure-Registered Trademark-, Ensure
Plus-Registered Trademark-, Ensure-Registered Trademark- High Protein,
Ensure-Registered Trademark-Light, Jevity-Registered Trademark-,
Glucerna-Registered Trademark-, PediaSure-Registered Trademark-,
Pedialyte-Registered Trademark-, and Pulmocare-Registered Trademark-. Principal
consumer products include the dandruff shampoo Selsun
Blue-Registered Trademark-; Murine-Registered Trademark- eye care and ear care
products; and Tronolane-Registered Trademark- hemorrhoid medication. The
principal pharmaceutical product is Survanta-Registered Trademark-. In addition,
this segment co-promotes Synagis-Registered Trademark- under an agreement with
MedImmune Incorporated.

    This segment markets its products in the United States. Nutritional products
are generally sold directly to retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities,
and government agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned
distribution centers or public warehouses. Primary marketing efforts for
nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation of Abbott's
brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. Competition
is generally from other broad line and specialized health care manufacturers.
Nutritional products are subject to competition in price, formulation,
scientific innovation, and promotional initiatives.

    This segment's pharmaceutical products are generally sold directly to
physicians, retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government
agencies. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution
centers or public warehouses. Primary marketing efforts for pharmaceutical
products are directed at securing the prescription of Abbott's brand of products
by physicians. Competition is generally from other broad line pharmaceutical
companies. A significant aspect of competition is the search for technological
innovations. The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in
medical practices and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can
also be a factor. In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand
prescribed has increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products which
are off-patent.

    Consumer products and Ensure-Registered Trademark- retail products are
promoted directly to the public by consumer advertising. These products are
generally sold directly to retailers and wholesalers. Competitive products are
sold by other diversified consumer and health care companies. Competitive
factors include consumer advertising, formulation, scientific innovation, price,
and availability of generic product forms.

    Ensure-Registered Trademark- is the leading adult nutritional and
Similac-Registered Trademark- is a leading infant formula in the United States.
(Source: A. C. Nielsen Co.)


INTERNATIONAL

    This segment's products include a broad line of hospital, pharmaceutical,
and adult and pediatric nutritional products marketed and primarily manufactured
outside the United States. These products are sold primarily on the prescription
or recommendation of physicians and other health care professionals. This
segment also includes consumer products.

    This segment's principal products include the anti-infectives
clarithromycin, sold under the trademarks Biaxin-Registered Trademark-,
Klacid-Registered Trademark- and Klaricid-Registered Trademark-, tosufloxacin,
sold in Japan under the trademark Tosuxacin-Registered Trademark-, and various
forms of the antibiotic erythromycin, sold primarily as
PCE-Registered Trademark- or polymer coated erythromycin,
Erythrocin-Registered Trademark-, and E.E.S.-Registered Trademark-; the
anti-viral Norvir-Registered Trademark-, a protease inhibitor for the treatment
of HIV infection; Lupron-Registered Trademark-, also marketed as
Lucrin-Registered Trademark-, used for the palliative treatment of advanced
prostate cancer, treatment of endometriosis and central precocious puberty and
for the preoperative treatment of patients with anemia caused by uterine
fibroids; Prevacid-Registered Trademark- (lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor
for the short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, gastric ulcers, and erosive
esophagitis; various cardiovascular products, including
Loftyl-Registered Trademark-, a vasoactive agent; Hytrin-Registered Trademark-,
also marketed as Hitrin-Registered Trademark- and Flotrin-Registered Trademark-,
used as an anti-hypertensive and for the treatment of benign prostatic
hyperplasia, and candesartan, sold under the trademarks Blopress-TM- and
Tiadyl-TM-, an angiotension 2 antagonist; meloxicam, a preferential COX-2
inhibitor; various forms of infant formulas and follow-on formulas, including
Similac Advance-Registered Trademark-, Gain-Registered Trademark-, and Abbott
Grow-TM-; various adult medical nutritionals, including
Ensure-Registered Trademark-, Glucerna-Registered Trademark-, and
Jevity-Registered Trademark-; and a broad line of hospital products, including
the anesthesia products sevoflurane (sold outside of the United States primarily
under the trademark Sevorane-Registered Trademark- and in a few other markets as
Ultane-Registered Trademark-), isoflurane, and enflurane; specialty injectables
such as Calcijex-Registered Trademark- and Survanta-Registered Trademark-; and
electronic drug delivery systems sold in selective international markets.

    This segment's pharmaceutical and nutritional products are generally sold
directly to government agencies, retailers, wholesalers, and health care
facilities. In most cases, they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution
centers. Certain products are co-marketed with other companies. Some of these
products are marketed and distributed through distributors. Primary marketing
efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the
prescription of Abbott's brand of products by physicians. Competition is
generally from other broad line and specialized pharmaceutical companies. A
significant aspect of competition is the search for technological innovations.
The introduction of new products by competitors and changes in medical practices
and procedures can result in product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor.
In addition, the substitution of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has
increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical products. Primary marketing
efforts for nutritional products are directed toward securing the recommendation
of Abbott's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals.
Competition is generally from other broad line and specialized health care
manufacturers and food companies. Nutritional products are subject to
competition in price, scientific innovation, formulation, and promotional
initiatives.

    This segment's hospital products are generally distributed to wholesalers
and directly to hospitals from distribution centers maintained by Abbott. This
segment is subject to competition in technological innovation, price,
convenience of use, instrument warranty provisions, service, product
performance, long-term supply contracts, and product potential for overall cost
effectiveness and productivity gains. Products in this segment can be subject to
rapid product obsolescence. Abbott has benefitted from technological advantages
of certain of its current products; however, these advantages may be reduced or
eliminated as competitors introduce new products.

TAP HOLDINGS INC.

    Under an agreement between Abbott and Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd. of
Japan (Takeda), TAP Holdings Inc. (owned 50 percent by Abbott and 50 percent by
an affiliate of Takeda), together with its subsidiary, TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc.
(TAP), develops and markets pharmaceutical products for the


United States and Canada. TAP markets Lupron-Registered Trademark-, an LH-RH
analog, and Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark-, a sustained release form of
Lupron-Registered Trademark-, in the United States. Lupron-Registered Trademark-
and Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark- are used principally for the palliative
treatment of advanced prostate cancer and the treatment of endometriosis. TAP
also markets Prevacid-Registered Trademark- (lansoprazole), a proton pump
inhibitor, and has a co-promotion arrangement with Abbott for
Prevacid-Registered Trademark-. Its principal indications are for heartburn and
other symptoms associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), erosive
esophagitis, short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, the maintenance of healed
erosive esophagitis and duodenal ulcers. Abbott has marketing rights to certain
Takeda products in select Latin American markets. Abbott also markets
Lupron-Registered Trademark-, Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark-,
Lucrin-Registered Trademark-, Lupron Depot-Ped-Registered Trademark-, and
Prevacid-Registered Trademark- in select markets outside the United States.

    TAP's products are generally sold directly to physicians, retailers,
wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most cases,
they are distributed from Abbott-owned distribution centers. Primary marketing
efforts for pharmaceutical products are directed toward securing the
prescription of TAP's brand of products by physicians. Managed care purchasers,
for example, health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and pharmacy benefit
managers, are increasingly important customers. Competition is generally from
other pharmaceutical companies. A significant aspect of competition is the
search for technological innovations. The introduction of new products by
competitors and changes in medical practices and procedures can result in
product obsolescence. Price can also be a factor. In addition, the substitution
of generic drugs for the brand prescribed has increased competitive pressures on
pharmaceutical products which are off-patent.

            INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO ABBOTT'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

    Abbott purchases, in the ordinary course of business, necessary raw
materials and supplies essential to Abbott's operations from numerous suppliers
in the United States and overseas. There have been no recent significant
availability problems or supply shortages.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, AND LICENSES

    Abbott is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection for
its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought and
obtained for Abbott's products in the United States and all countries of major
marketing interest to Abbott. Abbott owns, has applications pending for, and is
licensed under a substantial number of patents. Principal trademarks and the
products they cover are discussed in the Narrative Description of Business on
pages 1 through 5. These, and various patents which expire during the period
2000 to 2020, in the aggregate, are believed to be of material importance in the
operation of Abbott's business. Abbott believes that no single patent, license,
trademark (or related group of patents, licenses, or trademarks), except for
those related to clarithromycin (which is sold under the trademarks
Biaxin-Registered Trademark-, Klacid-Registered Trademark- and
Klaricid-Registered Trademark-), are material in relation to Abbott's business
as a whole. The original United States compound patent covering clarithromycin
is licensed from Taisho Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, and will
expire in 2005. In addition, the patents, licenses, and trademarks related to
divalproex sodium (which is sold under the trademark
Depakote-Registered Trademark-) are significant for Abbott's Pharmaceutical
Products segment. The original United States compound patents covering
divalproex sodium will expire in 2008. Litigation involving Abbott's patents
covering divalproex sodium is discussed in Legal Proceedings on pages 10
and 11.

SEASONAL ASPECTS, CUSTOMERS, BACKLOG, AND RENEGOTIATION

    There are no significant seasonal aspects to Abbott's business. The
incidence of certain infectious diseases which occur at various times in
different areas of the world does, however, affect the demand for Abbott's
anti-infective products. Orders for Abbott's products are generally filled on a
current basis, and order backlog is not material to Abbott's business. No single
customer accounted for sales equaling


10 percent or more of Abbott's consolidated net sales. No material portion of
Abbott's business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of the government.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Abbott spent $1,193,963,000 in 1999, $1,228,777,000 in 1998, and
$1,307,362,000 in 1997 on research to discover and develop new products and
processes and to improve existing products and processes. Abbott continues to
concentrate research expenditures on pharmaceutical and diagnostic products.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    Abbott believes that its operations comply in all material respects with
applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection. Regulations
under federal and state environmental laws impose stringent limitations on
emissions and discharges to the environment from various manufacturing
operations. Abbott's capital and operating expenditures for pollution control in
1999 were approximately $20 million and $54 million, respectively. Capital and
operating expenditures for pollution control are estimated to approximate
$19 million and $57 million, respectively, in 2000.

    Abbott has been identified as one of many potentially responsible parties in
investigations and/or remediations at twenty-four locations in the United States
including Puerto Rico under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund. The aggregate
costs of remediation at these sites by all identified parties are uncertain but
have been subject to widely ranging estimates totaling as much as several
hundred million dollars. In many cases, Abbott believes that the actual costs
will be lower than these estimates, and the fraction for which Abbott may be
responsible is anticipated to be considerably less and will be paid out over a
number of years. Abbott may participate in the investigation or cleanup at these
sites. Abbott is also voluntarily investigating potential contamination at two
Abbott-owned sites, and has initiated remediation at four sites, in cooperation
with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or similar state agencies.

    While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the costs related to the
previously described investigation and cleanup activities, Abbott believes that
such costs, together with other expenditures to maintain compliance with
applicable laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not
have a material adverse effect on Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or
results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

    Abbott employed 57,100 persons as of December 31, 1999.

REGULATION

    In late 1998, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) suspended
its approval of the release of production lots of Abbott's pharmaceutical
product Abbokinase-Registered Trademark- due to current Good Manufacturing
Practice concerns raised by the FDA following inspections of Abbott and its raw
material supplier. In January 1999, after Abbott revised the product's labeling
to add additional warnings and the FDA issued a health care provider information
sheet, the FDA released certain lots that were under its review. No lots have
been released since January 1999. Abbott submitted a letter to the FDA on
October 7, 1999, responding to the FDA's concerns and committing to meet all
outlined criteria for the release of Abbokinase. On December 10, 1999, Abbott
met with the FDA to review Abbott's plan for the qualification of new raw
materials and reinitiation of manufacturing. The FDA concurred with Abbott's
strategy. In the future, Abbott will sell only Abbokinase that is manufactured
with new raw materials that meet the FDA's criteria. Abbott cannot predict,
however, whether it will be successful in qualifying new raw material sources or
the effect of this matter on future sales of Abbokinase. Sales of Abbokinase
were approximately $47 million and $277 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively.


    On September 28, 1999, Abbott announced that it had been notified by the
United States government of alleged noncompliance with the FDA's Quality System
Regulation at the Lake County, Illinois facilities of Abbott's Diagnostic
Products division. On November 4, 1999, a consent decree was entered in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois which settles
the issues involving Abbott's diagnostic manufacturing operations in Lake
County, Illinois. The decree required Abbott to make a payment of $100 million
to the United States government and to ensure its diagnostic manufacturing
processes in Lake County, Illinois conform with the FDA's current Quality System
Regulation. The consent decree does not represent an admission by Abbott of any
violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or its regulations. The
decree allows for the continued manufacture and distribution of medically
necessary diagnostic products made in Lake County, Illinois, such as certain
assays for hepatitis, retrovirus, cardiovascular disease, cancer, thyroid
disorders, fertility, drug monitoring, and congenital and respiratory
conditions. However, Abbott is prohibited from manufacturing or distributing
certain other diagnostic products until Abbott ensures the processes in its Lake
County, Illinois diagnostics manufacturing operations conform with the current
Quality System Regulation. Under the terms of the consent decree, among other
actions, Abbott has submitted to the FDA proposed master compliance and
validation plans to ensure its processes conform with the current Quality System
Regulation. The decree requires Abbott to ensure its facilities are in
conformance with the current Quality System Regulation within one year. The
consent decree does not affect Abbott's MediSense, i-STAT, hematology or Murex
products; the clinical chemistry products Abbott Spectrum-Registered Trademark-,
Aeroset-Registered Trademark-, and Alcyon-Registered Trademark-; or any other
Abbott divisions or their products. The consent decree allows Abbott to export
diagnostic products and components for sale and distribution outside the United
States if they meet the export requirements of the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act.

    The development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of Abbott's products
are subject to comprehensive government regulation. Government regulation by
various federal, state, and local agencies, which includes detailed inspection
of and controls over research and laboratory procedures, clinical
investigations, and manufacturing, marketing, sampling, distribution, record
keeping, storage, and disposal practices, substantially increases the time,
difficulty, and costs incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to
market newly developed and existing products. Government regulatory actions can
result in delay in the release of products, seizure or recall of products,
suspension or revocation of the authority necessary for their production and
sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions.

    Continuing studies of the utilization, safety, and efficacy of health care
products and their components are being conducted by industry, government
agencies, and others. Such studies, which employ increasingly sophisticated
methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and
efficacy of previously marketed products and in some cases have resulted, and
may in the future result, in the discontinuance of marketing of such products
and may give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been
injured as a result of their use.

    The cost of human health care products continues to be a subject of
investigation and action by governmental agencies, legislative bodies, and
private organizations in the United States and other countries. In the United
States, most states have enacted generic substitution legislation requiring or
permitting a dispensing pharmacist to substitute a different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical product for the one prescribed. Federal and state
governments continue to press efforts to reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid
programs, including restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for the use
of products. In addition, the federal government follows a diagnosis-related
group (DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under
Medicare or Medicaid and is implementing a prospective payment system (PPS) for
services delivered in hospital outpatient, nursing home, and home health
settings. DRG and PPS entitle a health care facility to a fixed reimbursement
based on diagnosis rather than actual costs incurred in patient treatment,
thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or control
expenditures for many health care products. Manufacturers must pay certain
statutorily-prescribed rebates on Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on
prescription drugs under state Medicaid plans. The


Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional
discounts on pharmaceutical products to various federal agencies, including the
Department of Veterans Affairs, Department of Defense, and Public Health Service
entities and institutions.

    In the United States, governmental cost-containment efforts have extended to
the federally funded Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,
and Children (WIC). All states participate in WIC and have sought and obtained
rebates from manufacturers of infant formula whose products are used in the
program. Over the last five years, all of the states have conducted competitive
bidding for infant formula contracts which require the use of specific infant
formula products by the state WIC program. The Child Nutrition and WIC
Reauthorization Act of 1989 requires all states participating in WIC to engage
in competitive bidding or to use any other cost containment measure that yields
savings equal to or greater than the savings generated by a competitive bidding
system.

    Governmental regulatory agencies require prescription drug manufacturers to
pay fees. The FDA imposes substantial fees on various aspects of the approval,
manufacture, and sale of proprietary prescription drugs. The FDA's authority to
impose these fees was reauthorized by the Food and Drug Administration
Modernization Act of 1997.

    Abbott expects debate to continue during 2000 at both the federal and the
state level over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health
care products and services. Abbott believes that if legislation is enacted, it
could have the effect of reducing prices, or reducing the rate of price
increases, for medical products and services.

    International operations are also subject to a significant degree of
government regulation. Many countries, directly or indirectly through
reimbursement limitations, control the selling price of most health care
products. Furthermore, many developing countries limit the importation of raw
materials and finished products. International regulations also are having an
impact on United States regulations. The International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) provides the criteria for meeting the regulations for
medical devices within the European Union. Abbott has made significant strides
in gaining ISO 9000 and European Norm 46000 certification for facilities that
manufacture devices for European markets. The FDA recently adopted regulations
governing the manufacture of medical devices that appear to encompass and exceed
the ISO's approach to regulating medical devices. The FDA's adoption of the
ISO's approach to regulation and other changes to the manner in which the FDA
regulates medical devices will increase the cost of compliance with those
regulations.

    Efforts to reduce health care costs are also being made in the private
sector. Health care providers have responded by instituting various cost
reduction and containment measures.

    It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care
industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.

                            INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    Abbott markets products in approximately 130 countries through affiliates
and distributors. Most of the products discussed in the preceding sections of
this report are also sold outside the United States. In addition, certain
products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local
regulatory requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed
to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject to
certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United
States, including price and currency exchange controls, changes in currency
exchange rates, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises,
expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    Abbott's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park,
Illinois 60064-6400. The locations of Abbott's principal plants are listed
below.




    In addition to the above, Abbott has manufacturing facilities in six other
locations in the United States, including Puerto Rico. Outside the United States
manufacturing facilities are located in 15 other countries. Abbott's facilities
are deemed suitable, provide adequate productive capacity, and are utilized at
normal and acceptable levels.

    In the United States, including Puerto Rico, Abbott owns 11 distribution
centers. Abbott also has 14 United States research and development facilities
located at: Abbott Park, Illinois; Ashland, Ohio; Bedford, Massachusetts;
Columbus, Ohio (two locations); Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Madera,
California; McPherson, Kansas; Morgan Hill, California; North Chicago, Illinois;
Redwood City, California; Santa Clara, California; and San Diego, California.
Outside the United States, Abbott has research and development facilities in
Argentina, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, The Netherlands,
South Africa, Spain, and the United Kingdom.

    The corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States that
are listed above, are owned by Abbott or subsidiaries of Abbott. The remaining
manufacturing plants and all other facilities are owned or leased by Abbott or
subsidiaries of Abbott. There are no material encumbrances on the properties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    Abbott is involved in various claims and legal proceedings, including (as of
January 31, 2000), 130 antitrust lawsuits and two investigations in connection
with Abbott's pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals, two cases involving
Abbott's patents for divalproex sodium, a drug that Abbott sells under the
trademark Depakote-Registered Trademark-, 13 antitrust lawsuits, two antitrust
investigations, and one patent infringement lawsuit involving Abbott's patents
for terazosin hydrochloride, a drug that Abbott sells under the trademark
Hytrin-Registered Trademark-, and 18 cases involving Abbott's alleged
noncompliance with the United States Food and Drug Administration's Quality
System Regulation at Abbott's Diagnostic Products division facilities in Lake
County, Illinois.

    As of January 31, 2000, 116 prescription pharmaceutical pricing antitrust
cases were pending in federal court and 14 were pending in state courts. The
prescription pharmaceutical pricing antitrust suits allege that various
pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmaceutical wholesalers have conspired to
fix prices for prescription pharmaceuticals and/or to discriminate in pricing to
retail pharmacies by providing discounts to mail-order pharmacies, institutional
pharmacies, and HMOs in violation of state and federal antitrust laws. The suits
have been brought on behalf of individual consumers and retail pharmacies and
name both Abbott and certain other pharmaceutical manufacturers and
pharmaceutical wholesalers and at least one mail-order pharmacy company as
defendants. The cases seek treble damages, civil penalties, and injunctive and
other relief. Abbott has filed or intends to file a response to each of the
complaints denying all substantive allegations. The federal cases are pending in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under the
Multidistrict Litigation Rules as In re: Brand Name Prescription Drug Antitrust
Litigation, MDL 997. The state cases are pending in the following state courts:
Clarke County, Alabama; Monterey County, California; San Francisco County,
California (five cases); San Joaquin County, California; Prentiss County,
Mississippi; Burleigh County, North Dakota; San Miguel, County, New Mexico;
Hughes County, South Dakota; Cocke County, Tennessee; and, Marshall County, West
Virginia. Abbott entered and the courts have approved settlement agreements in
the consumer lawsuits that were previously pending in the following
jurisdictions: Kansas, North Carolina, and Tennessee. The investigations are
being conducted by the Attorney General of Illinois and the Federal Trade
Commission.

    As of January 31, 2000, two cases were pending involving Abbott's patents
for divalproex sodium, a drug that Abbott sells under the trademark
Depakote-Registered Trademark-. On October 24, 1997, after having been notified
that TorPharm, a division of Apotex, Inc. ("TorPharm") had applied to the
Federal Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") for approval for a generic
version of divalproex sodium, Abbott sued TorPharm in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging patent


infringement. TorPharm contends that its product does not infringe Abbott's
patents and that, in any event, the patents are invalid and unenforceable. A
trial is scheduled for July 17, 2000. On August 28, 1992, after having been
notified that Alra Laboratories, Inc. ("Alra") had applied to the FDA for
approval for a generic version of divalproex sodium, Abbott sued Alra in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
patent infringement. Alra filed counterclaims alleging that Abbott fraudulently
delayed Alra's entry into the market for divalproex sodium and seeking money
damages. Alra contended that its product did not infringe Abbott's patents and
that, in any event, those patents were invalid and unenforceable. Alra filed
motions for summary judgment on the issues of infringement and validity. Abbott
filed a motion for summary judgment on the issue of infringement. On
October 20, 1997, the court granted Abbott's motion for summary judgment and
found that Alra's product infringes Abbott's patents. The court denied Alra's
motions for summary judgment on the issues of infringement and patent invalidity
and dismissed the lawsuit. Alra filed a motion for reconsideration of the
court's ruling. That motion was granted in part and denied in part. On
November 23, 1999, the court re-affirmed its prior rulings granting Abbott
summary judgment. Alra has appealed.

    As of January 31, 2000, one case involving Abbott's patents for terazosin
hydrochloride, a drug that Abbott sells under the trademark
Hytrin-Registered Trademark-, was pending. Five cases had been filed in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois alleging
infringement of Abbott's terazosin hydrochloride form IV patent. The other
parties to these cases were Geneva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Geneva"), Novopharm
Limited ("Novopharm"), Invamed, Inc. ("Invamed"), Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
("Mylan"), and Warner Chilcott, Inc. ("Warner Chilcott"). Abbott sued each of
these five corporations alleging patent infringement after learning that they
had applied to the FDA for approval for a generic version of terazosin
hydrochloride. Each of these corporations contended that Abbott's patent which
covers their version of terazosin hydrochloride is invalid and unenforceable.
The Geneva, Invamed, and Novopharm cases were all pending before the same judge,
who, on September 1, 1998, entered a judgment in each of those cases ruling that
the Abbott patent at issue in those cases is invalid. Abbott appealed this
ruling and on July 1, 1999, the appellate court affirmed the lower court's
decision. Abbott filed a petition for a writ of certiorari in the United States
Supreme Court, which was denied on January 10, 2000. On October 4, 1999, Mylan's
motion in the appellate court for Summary Affirmance, based on the September 1,
1998 ruling in the Geneva case, was granted. Abbott filed a petition for a writ
of certiorari in the United States Supreme Court, which is pending. On November
24, 1999, Warner Chilcott's motion in the appellate court for Summary
Affirmance, based on the September 1, 1998 ruling in the Geneva case, was
granted and is now final.

    In April 1996, Zenith Laboratories, Inc. ("Zenith") sued Abbott in the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging that Abbott
had engaged in unfair competition, abuse of process, tortious interference with
prospective economic advantage, and fraud in attempting to protect Hytrin from
generic competition. Zenith sought money damages and a declaration that certain
of Abbott's patents covering terazosin hydrochloride are invalid. Abbott filed
counterclaims alleging patent infringement. On March 31, 1998, Abbott and Zenith
reached an agreement that resolved the patent litigation and the litigation of
other claims between the parties. In the settlement, Zenith acknowledged the
validity of Abbott's terazosin hydrochloride patents and agreed to refrain from
selling a generic version of terazosin hydrochloride until the expiration of one
of Abbott's patents for terazosin hydrochloride (U.S. Patent No. 4,251,532). On
April 1, 1998, Abbott and Geneva reached an agreement under which Geneva would
not market its Food and Drug Administration approved generic terazosin
hydrochloride products until resolution of the pending patent litigation between
the parties. Abbott agreed to make quarterly payments to Zenith and monthly
payments to Geneva until the date on which they could enter the market for
terazosin hydrochloride under their agreements. Under the agreements, both
Zenith and Geneva would have been free to enter the market for terazosin
hydrochloride in the United States if certain of Abbott's patents for terazosin
hydrochloride were determined to be invalid and if another company legally
entered the generic market in the United States. On August 12, 1999, Abbott and
Geneva terminated their


April 1, 1998 agreement, and Geneva returned to Abbott a portion of the payments
held in escrow under the agreement. On August 13, 1999, Geneva entered the
market with its product.

    As of January 31, 2000, 13 cases were pending relating to Abbott's
agreements with Geneva and Zenith and/or its conduct with respect to its patents
for terazosin hydrochloride. Nine cases were pending in federal court. Four were
pending in state court. Each alleges Abbott violated antitrust and/or consumer
protection laws. Generally, each seeks actual damages, treble damages, civil
penalties, and other relief. Abbott has sought or intends to seek to have the
state cases removed to federal court and has requested or intends to request the
Judicial Panel for Multidistrict Litigation to transfer the cases to the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Florida for coordinated
pre-trial proceedings. Abbott has filed or intends to file a response to each
complaint denying all substantive allegations.

    As noted above, as of January 31, 2000, 9 cases are pending in federal
court. On December 18, 1998, Louisiana Wholesale Drug Co. sued Abbott, Geneva
and Zenith. On August 30, 1999, Valley Drug Co. sued Abbott and Geneva. Both
cases were filed in in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Florida. On October 19, 1999, Char-Mar Pharmacy, Inc. sued Abbott,
Geneva, and Zenith in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of New York. On August 19, 1999, Drug Mart Pharmacy Corp. sued Abbott, Geneva,
and Zenith in the Supreme Court of New York, Kings County. The case is now
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of
Florida. On October 5, 1999, United Wisconsin Services, Inc., Blue Cross & Blue
Shield of Wisconsin, Inc., Compare Health Insurance Corp., Unity Health Plans
Insurance Corp., and Valley Health Plan Inc. sued Abbott in the Circuit Court of
Cook County. The case is now pending in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois. On October 29, 1999, Ewald and Lavera
Grosskrueger sued Abbott in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois. The case
is now pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. On November 29, 1999, Maxicare Health Plans, Inc. sued Abbott in the
Superior Court of the State of California for the City and County of San
Francisco. The case is now pending in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. Each of the 7 preceding cases purports to be a
class action. In addition, on July 12, 1999, Walgreen Co. and five other retail
pharmacy chains sued Abbott, Geneva, and Zenith and on December 29, 1999,
CVS Meridian, Inc. and Rite Aid Corp. sued Abbott, Geneva, and Zenith. Both
cases were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Florida.

    As of January 31, 2000, 4 cases were pending in state court. Each purports
to be a class action. On December 30, 1999, Victor Scafani sued Abbott, Geneva,
and Zenith in the Superior Court of California for the County of San Mateo. On
January 7, 2000, Mermel J. Valentine sued Abbott, Geneva, and Zenith in the
Circuit Court of Tennessee, Cocke County. On November 8, 1999, Aaron Asher and
New Utrecht Pharmacy, Inc., sued Abbott, Geneva, and Zenith in the Supreme Court
of New York for the County of New York. On November 18, 1999, Joseph Lisanti
sued Abbott, Geneva, and Zenith in the Supreme Court of New York for the County
of Nassau.

    On April 19, 1999, Abbott received a subpoena and a civil investigation
demand from the Federal Trade Commission regarding Abbott's agreements with
Geneva and Zenith. On December 29, 1999, Abbott received a civil investigative
demand from the State of Florida, Office of the Attorney General, regarding
Abbott's agreements with Geneva and Zenith.

    As of January 31, 2000, eighteen cases, including five shareholder
derivative suits, were pending relating to Abbott's alleged noncompliance with
the Food and Drug Administration's Quality System Regulation at Abbott's
Diagnostic Products division facilities in Lake County, Illinois. (This matter
is discussed in greater detail in "Regulation" on page 7 and is incorporated
herein by this reference.)

    Thirteen of these lawsuits allege that Abbott and Miles White, its Chief
Executive Officer, and in some cases, Thomas Brown, Abbott's Senior Vice
President, Diagnostic Operations, violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by misrepresenting or omitting material
information about the alleged regulatory noncompliance. On October 20, 1999, Tom
Anderson sued


Abbott and Mr. White. Abbott and Mr. White were also sued by Adele Brody on
October 26, 1999; Solomon Glazer on October 26, 1999; Deborah Isaac on
October 26, 1999; Feivel Alter on November 3, 1999; George Ehlert and Georgeanne
Ehlert on November 26, 1999; Albert Pats on November 26, 1999; James Bresnahan
on December 16, 1999; and, also on December 16, 1999 by Robert Corwin. In
addition, in their lawsuits against Abbott and Mr. White, the following
individuals also sued Mr. Brown: James Brannon on November 5, 1999; Scott Mustin
on December 3, 1999; Bethany Gill Revocable Trust on December 7, 1999; and, also
on December 7, 1999, Joseph Rabinovits. These lawsuits were filed in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Each of these cases
(a) purports to be a class action brought on behalf of purchasers of Abbott
stock between March 17, 1999, and September 29, 1999 (or, in the case brought by
Tom Anderson on behalf of purchasers of Abbott stock between March 17, 1999 and
November 2, 1999), and (b) seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief.
On February 2, 2000, the United States District Court consolidated all thirteen
cases, which will now be known as, "IN RE ABBOTT LABORATORIES SECURITIES
LITIGATION." Abbott denies all of the substantive allegations of these lawsuits
and will vigorously defend against them.

    The five shareholder derivative suits name as defendants each of Abbott's
current directors, certain former directors and, nominally, Abbott, and claim
that the directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things,
(a) allowing the alleged regulatory noncompliance, (b) failing to publicly
disclose the alleged regulatory noncompliance in supposed violation of federal
securities law, (c) misusing or permitting the misuse of corporate information
for the personal profit of corporate insiders in supposed violation of federal
and state law, and (d) causing Abbott to pay $100 million to the federal
government and withdraw certain medical diagnostics kits from the U.S. market.
In the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Leo
Farrell sued on November 5, 1999; Leonard Bronstein sued on November 8, 1999;
and Carpenters Pension Fund of Arkansas and David Kaufman sued on December 15,
1999 (and also name Thomas Hodgson, a former director and officer, as a
defendant). In the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, F. David Seinfeld
sued on December 2, 1999. In the Circuit Court for the Nineteenth Judicial
Circuit, Lake County, Illinois, Craig Heneghan and Marjory Motiaytis sued on
December 14, 1999 (and also names K. Frank Austen, a former director, and Duane
Burnham, a former director and officer, as defendants). In each case, the
plaintiffs request unspecified monetary damages to be paid to Abbott, that the
directors indemnify Abbott for all fines, penalties or damages paid by Abbott in
connection with the alleged regulatory noncompliance, reimbursement of their
legal fees and costs, and various forms of other relief. The Bronstein, Farrell,
and Carpenters cases have been consolidated and are now known as IN RE ABBOTT
LABORATORIES DERIVATIVE SHAREHOLDER LITIGATION. Abbott has filed motions to
dismiss the Seinfeld and Heneghan cases. Abbott intends to deny all of the
substantive allegations of these suits. Abbott will vigorously defend these
suits.

    Abbott has previously reported that four lawsuits, all purporting to be
class action lawsuits filed on behalf of a class of holders of ALZA Corporation
("ALZA") stock as of August 16, 1999, were pending in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The plaintiffs in these cases were
Gayle Stahl, Galina Mikhailova, Ted Dellas, and Sylvia Piven. Each of these
cases alleged the defendants violated Sections 14(a) and 20(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 by soliciting the approval of ALZA's shareholders for a
merger of ALZA with Abbott by means of a proxy statement/prospectus, which the
plaintiffs allege contained materially false and misleading statements or
omissions concerning Abbott's alleged noncompliance with the Food and Drug
Administration's Quality System Regulation. On January 19, 2000, the court
dismissed these cases with prejudice.

    While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of such pending claims,
proceedings, and investigations with certainty, management is of the opinion
that their ultimate dispositions should not have a material adverse effect on
Abbott's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.


                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Officers of Abbott are elected annually by the board of directors at the
first meeting held after the annual shareholders meeting. Each officer holds
office until a successor has been duly elected and qualified or until the
officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any meeting
of the board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its
judgment, removal would serve the best interests of Abbott.

    Current corporate officers, and their ages as of March 1, 2000, are listed
below. The officers' principal occupations and employment from January 1995 to
March 1, 2000 and the dates of their first election as officers of Abbott are
also shown. Unless otherwise stated, employment was by Abbott for the period
indicated. There are no family relationships between any corporate officers or
directors.

MILES D. WHITE**, 44

    1999 to present -- Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and
                       Director.

    1998 to 1999 -- Executive Vice President and Director.

    1995 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

ROBERT L. PARKINSON JR.,** 49

    1999 to present -- President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.

    1998 to 1999 -- Executive Vice President and Director.

    1995 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, International Operations.

    1995 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1989.

JOY A. AMUNDSON**, 45

    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Ross Products.

    1995 to 1998 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.

    1995 -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.

CHRISTOPHER B. BEGLEY**, 47

    1999 to present -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural
                       Products.

    1998 to 1999 -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.

    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, MediSense Operations.

    1995 to 1996 -- Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.


THOMAS D. BROWN**, 51

    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.

    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

GARY P. COUGHLAN**, 56

    1995 to present -- Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                       Officer.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.

JOSE M. DE LASA**, 58

    1995 to present -- Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1994.

WILLIAM G. DEMPSEY **, 48

    1999 to present -- Senior Vice President, International Operations.

    1998 to 1999 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.

    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.

    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector
                    Sales.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Abbott Critical Care
            Systems.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.

RICHARD A. GONZALEZ**, 46

    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Hospital Products.

    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, U.S. and Canada,
            Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

ARTHUR J. HIGGINS**, 43

    1998 to present -- Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.

    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa Operations.

    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa
                    Operations.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Commercial Operations, Abbott
            International Division.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.


THOMAS M. WASCOE**, 53

    1999 to present -- Senior Vice President, Human Resources.

    1995 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Human Resources, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

CATHERINE V. BABINGTON, 47

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs.

    1995 -- Director, Corporate Communications.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

PATRICK J. BALTHROP, 43

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.

    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, U.S. and Canada.

    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, U.S. and
                    Canada, Diagnostic Products.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President and Sector General Manager, Diagnostic
            Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.

MARK E. BARMAK, 58

    2000 to present -- Vice President, Government Affairs.

    1995 to 2000 -- Vice President, Litigation and Government Affairs.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President and Associate General Counsel, Litigation.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

MICHAEL G. BEATRICE, 52

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Regulatory and Quality Science.

    1996 to 1999 -- Executive Vice President and General Manager, Quintiles
                    Strategic Product Development Consulting Services (global
                    regulatory and quality systems consultation service
                    organization).

    1995 to 1996 -- Deputy Director, Center for Biologics Evaluation and
                    Research, United States Food and Drug Administration.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.


CHRISTOPHER A. BLECK, 42

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Pediatrics, Ross Products.

    1997 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President and President and General Manager,
                    Canada, Abbott International Division.

    1995 to 1997 -- Divisional Vice President, Business Development, Abbott
                    International Division.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

DOUGLAS C. BRYANT, 42

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Asia and Pacific.

    1997 to 1998 -- Commercial Director, Asia and Pacific, Diagnostic Products.

    1995 to 1997 -- General Manager, United Kingdom and Ireland, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    1995 -- Regional Sales Manager, Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.

GARY R. BYERS, 58

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Internal Audit.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

THOMAS F. CHEN, 50

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Pacific, Asia, and Africa Operations.

    1996 to 1998 -- Regional Director, Taiwan and People's Republic of China.

    1995 to 1996 -- General Manager, Taiwan and People's Republic of China Task
                    Force.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.

EDWARD J. FIORENTINO, 41

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Marketing and
                       Sales.

    1995 to 1998 -- Divisional Vice President, Marketing, Pharmaceutical
                    Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.

GARY L. FLYNN**, 50

    1999 to present -- Vice President and Controller.

    1995 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President and Controller, Ross Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

THOMAS C. FREYMAN, 45

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Hospital Products Controller.

    1995 to 1999 -- Vice President and Treasurer.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1991.


STEPHEN R. FUSSELL, 42

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Compensation and Development.

    1996 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Compensation and Benefits.

    1995 to 1996 -- Vice President, Total Compensation, Nestle USA (diversified
                    food company).

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

DAVID B. GOFFREDO, 45

    1998 to present -- Vice President, European Operations.

    1995 to 1998 -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products, Marketing and
                    Sales.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Products Sales and
            Marketing.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

ROBERT B. HANCE, 40

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Europe, Africa and
                       Middle East.

    1997 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, European Region, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    1996 to 1997 -- Area Business Development Director, Europe, Middle East and
                    Africa, Diagnostic Products.

    1995 to 1996 -- Director, Marketing, IPLS and Clinical Chemistry, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

GUILLERMO A. HERRERA, 46

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Latin America and Canada Operations.

    1996 to 1998 -- Vice President, Latin America Operations.

    1995 to 1996 -- Area Vice President, Latin America.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.

JAMES J. KOZIARZ, 51

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Products Research and
                       Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

ELAINE R. LEAVENWORTH, 40

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Abbott HealthSystems.

    1997 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Licensing and New Business
                    Development, Abbott International Division.

    1996 to 1997 -- Director, Licensing and Acquisitions, Abbott International
                    Division.

    1995 to 1996 -- Director, Nutritionals, Abbott International Division.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.


JOHN M. LEONARD, 42

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development.

    1997 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development,
                    Pharmaceutical Products Research and Development.

    1996 to 1997 -- Therapeutic Area Venture Head, Pharmaceutical Products
                    Research and Development.

    1995 to 1996 -- Venture Head, Pharmaceutical Products Research and
                    Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

GREG W. LINDER, 43

    1999 to present -- Vice President and Treasurer.

    1996 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President and Controller, Hospital Products.

    1995 to 1996 -- Assistant Controller, Corporate Finance.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

JOHN F. LUSSEN, 58

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Taxes.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.

EDWARD L. MICHAEL, 43

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Assays and Systems.

    1997 to 1999 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, Europe, Africa, and
                    Middle East.

    1995 to 1997 -- Director, Area Operations and Scientific Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1997.

KAREN L. MILLER, 46

    2000 to present -- Vice President, Information Technology.

    1997 to 2000 -- Divisional Vice President, Information Systems, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    1995 to 1997 -- Director, Business Systems, Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 2000.


DANIEL W. NORBECK, 41

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Pharmaceutical Discovery.

    1998 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Discovery, Pharmaceutical
                    Products Research and Development.

    1995 to 1998 -- Divisional Vice President, Area Head, Pharmaceutical
                    Products Research and Development.

    1995 -- Senior Project Leader, Pharmaceutical Products Research and
            Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

EDWARD A. OGUNRO, 47

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Hospital Products Research and
                       Development, Medical and Regulatory Affairs.

    1995 to 1999 -- Divisional Vice President, Immunodiagnostics and Chemistry,
                    Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1999.

WILLIAM H. STADTLANDER, 54

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Ross Medical Nutritional Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

MARCIA A. THOMAS, 52

    1999 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Quality Assurance, Regulatory
                       Affairs and Compliance.

    1996 to 1999 -- Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs.

    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory
                    Affairs, Diagnostic Products.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President and General Manager, Infectious Diseases
            Diagnostics.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.

STEVEN J. WEGER JR., 55

    1996 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development.

    1995 to 1996 -- Divisional Vice President, Strategic Planning and Technology
                    Assessment, Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1996.


SUSAN M. WIDNER, 43

    1998 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Operations, U.S. and Canada.

    1996 to 1998 -- Divisional Vice President, Worldwide Marketing, Diagnostic
                    Products.

    1995 to 1996 -- Director, Venture Marketing, Diagnostic Products.

    1995 -- Business Unit Manager, Diagnostic Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1998.

LANCE B. WYATT, 55

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Engineering.

    1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs,
            Pharmaceutical Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

- ------------------------

**  Pursuant to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K, Abbott has identified these
    persons as "executive officers" within the meaning of Item 401(b).


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

PRINCIPAL MARKET

    The principal market for Abbott's common shares is the New York Stock
Exchange. Shares are also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific
Exchange and are traded on the Boston, Cincinnati, and Philadelphia Exchanges.
Outside the United States, Abbott's shares are listed on the London Stock
Exchange and the Swiss Stock Exchange.



    Market prices are as reported by the New York Stock Exchange composite
transaction reporting system. Pre-split prices have been adjusted to reflect the
May 1998 stock split.

SHAREHOLDERS

    There were 106,766 shareholders of record of Abbott common shares as of
December 31, 1999.

DIVIDENDS

    Quarterly dividends of $.17 per share and $.15 per share were declared on
common shares in 1999 and 1998, respectively, after reflecting the May 1998
stock split.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    Incorporated herein by reference for the years 1995 through 1999 are the
applicable portions of the section captioned "Summary of Selected Financial
Data" of the 1999 Annual Report.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    Incorporated herein by reference is management's discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations for the years 1999, 1998, and 1997
found under the section captioned "Financial Review" of the 1999 Annual Report.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    Incorporated herein by reference is the section captioned "Financial
Instruments and Risk Management" of the 1999 Annual Report.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Incorporated herein by reference are the portions of the 1999 Annual Report
captioned "Consolidated Statement of Earnings and Comprehensive Income,"
"Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows," "Consolidated Balance Sheet,"
"Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment," "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements," and "Report of Independent Public Accountants" (which
contains the related report of Arthur Andersen LLP dated January 17, 2000
(except with respect to the matter discussed in the third paragraph of Note 12,
as to which the date is January 20, 2000)). Data relating to quarterly results
are found in Note 10.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Incorporated herein by reference are "Committees of the Board of Directors"
and "Information Concerning Nominees for Directors" found in the 2000 Abbott
Laboratories Proxy Statement. Also incorporated herein by reference is the text
found under the caption, "Executive Officers of The Registrant" on pages 14
through 21.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The material in the 2000 Proxy Statement under the heading "Executive
Compensation," other than the Report of the Compensation Committee and the
Performance Graph, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Incorporated herein by reference is the text found under the caption
"Information Concerning Security Ownership" and the material under the heading
"Security Ownership of Executive Officers and Directors" in the 2000 Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    None.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS FORM 10-K.

    1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:  The Consolidated Financial Statements for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997 and the related report of Arthur
Andersen LLP dated January 17, 2000 (except with respect to the matter discussed
in the third paragraph of Note 12, as to which the date is January 20, 2000),
appearing under the portions of the 1999 Annual Report captioned "Consolidated
Statement of Earnings and Comprehensive Income," "Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows," "Consolidated Balance Sheet," "Consolidated Statement of Shareholders'
Investment," "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," and "Report of
Independent Public Accountants," respectively, are incorporated by reference in
response to Item 14(a)1. With the exception of the portions of the 1999 Annual
Report specifically incorporated herein by reference, such Report shall not be
deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or otherwise deemed
subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


    2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES:  The required financial statement
schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These schedules should be read
in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements in the 1999 Annual
Report:



    3.  EXHIBITS REQUIRED BY ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K:  The information called
for by this paragraph is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index
on pages 30, 31 and 32 of this Form 10-K.

    (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K DURING THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999:

    Four reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
    1999. In a Form 8-K dated November 2, 1999, Abbott reported that a consent
    decree was entered in the United States District Court for the Northern
    District of Illinois which settles the issues involving Abbott's diagnostic
    manufacturing operations in Lake County, Illinois. In a report dated
    November 10, 1999, Abbott reported that, on November 10, 1999, the Board of
    Directors of Abbott adopted a shareholder rights plan and declared a
    dividend of one Preferred Stock Purchase Right for each outstanding share of
    Abbott common stock to be distributed to the shareholders of record of
    Abbott as of the close of business on December 1, 1999. In a report dated
    November 11, 1999, Abbott reported that, on November 11, 1999, Abbott and
    BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, executed a Rights Agreement relating to
    the Preferred Stock Purchase Rights to be distributed to the shareholders of
    record of Abbott as of the close of business on December 1, 1999. In a
    report dated December 7, 1999, Abbott reported that on December 7, 1999
    Abbott and BankBoston, N.A., as Rights Agent, executed an Amendment
    Number 1 to the Rights Agreement between Abbott and BankBoston, N.A., as
    Rights Agent dated November 11, 1999.

    (c) EXHIBITS FILED (SEE EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGES 30, 31 AND 32).

    (d) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES FILED (PAGE 27).


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Abbott Laboratories has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          ABBOTT LABORATORIES

                                          By /s/ MILES D. WHITE
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             Miles D. White
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                             Chief Executive Officer

                                           Date: February 11, 2000

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Abbott
Laboratories on February 11, 2000 in the capacities indicated below.

/s/ MILES D. WHITE
- -------------------------------------------
Miles D. White
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
and Director of Abbott Laboratories
(principal executive officer)

/s/ ROBERT L. PARKINSON JR.
- -------------------------------------------
Robert L. Parkinson Jr.
President, Chief Operating Officer
and Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ GARY P. COUGHLAN
- -------------------------------------------
Gary P. Coughlan
Senior Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)

/s/ GARY L. FLYNN
- -------------------------------------------
Gary L. Flynn
Vice President and Controller
(principal accounting officer)

/s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER
- -------------------------------------------
H. Laurance Fuller
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ DAVID A. JONES
- -------------------------------------------
David A. Jones
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ JEFFREY M. LEIDEN
- -------------------------------------------
Jeffrey M. Leiden, M.D.
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ DAVID A. L. OWEN
- -------------------------------------------
David A. L. Owen
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ BOONE POWELL JR.
- -------------------------------------------
Boone Powell Jr.
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ A. BARRY RAND
- -------------------------------------------
A. Barry Rand
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS
- -------------------------------------------
W. Ann Reynolds
Director of Abbott Laboratories


/s/ ROY S. ROBERTS
- -------------------------------------------
Roy S. Roberts
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG
- -------------------------------------------
William D. Smithburg
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ JOHN R. WALTER
- -------------------------------------------
John R. Walter
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ WILLIAM L. WEISS
- -------------------------------------------
William L. Weiss
Director of Abbott Laboratories


                      ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998, AND 1997



(a) Represents provisions related to allowances for doubtful accounts and net
    change in the allowances for sales deductions.


             SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Abbott Laboratories:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements included in Abbott's Annual Report incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated
January 17, 2000 (except with respect to the matter discussed in the third
paragraph of Note 12, as to which the date is January 20, 2000). Our audits were
made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
Schedule II is the responsibility of Abbott's management, is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules, and
is not part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected
to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Chicago, Illinois
January 17, 2000
(except with respect to the matter
discussed in the third paragraph
of Note 12, as to which the date
is January 20, 2000)

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                              ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                   FORM 10-K











    The 2000 Abbott Laboratories Proxy Statement will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under separate cover on or about March 14,
2000.

- ------------------------

*   Incorporated herein by reference. Commission file number 1-2189.

**  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
    be filed as an exhibit hereto.

    Abbott will furnish copies of any of the above exhibits to a shareholder
upon written request to the Corporate Secretary, Abbott Laboratories, 100 Abbott
Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-6400.


