
10-K405
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                                   FORM 10-K
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                              -------------------

(MARK ONE)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                              -------------------

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995.       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-2189





          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:



INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS REQUIRED
TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING
THE  PRECEDING 12 MONTHS, AND  (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT  TO SUCH FILING REQUIREMENTS
FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.

                             YES __X__    NO _____

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE  OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM  405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST
OF  THE REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN THE PROXY STATEMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [     ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET  VALUE OF THE  719,359,387 SHARES OF  VOTING STOCK HELD  BY
NONAFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT, COMPUTED BY USING THE CLOSING PRICE AS REPORTED
ON  THE CONSOLIDATED TRANSACTION REPORTING SYSTEM FOR ABBOTT LABORATORIES COMMON
SHARES  WITHOUT   PAR   VALUE   ON   JANUARY   31,   1996,   WAS   APPROXIMATELY
$30,572,773,947.50.

NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF JANUARY 31, 1996: 786,075,095.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS  OF THE ABBOTT  LABORATORIES ANNUAL REPORT FOR  THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 1995 ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PARTS I, II, AND IV.

PORTIONS OF THE  1996 ABBOTT  LABORATORIES PROXY STATEMENT  ARE INCORPORATED  BY
REFERENCE INTO PART III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

                        GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

    Abbott  Laboratories is an  Illinois corporation, incorporated  in 1900. The
Company's* principal business  is the discovery,  development, manufacture,  and
sale of a broad and diversified line of health care products and services.

              FINANCIAL INFORMATION RELATING TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS,
               GEOGRAPHIC AREAS, AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS

    Incorporated  herein by reference is the footnote entitled "Industry Segment
and Geographic Area Information" of the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Abbott Laboratories Annual  Report for the  year ended December  31, 1995  (1995
Annual  Report), filed as an exhibit to this report. Also incorporated herein by
reference is the text and table of  sales by class of similar products  included
in the section of the 1995 Annual Report captioned "Financial Review."

                       NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

PHARMACEUTICAL AND NUTRITIONAL PRODUCTS

    Included   in  this  segment  is  a   broad  line  of  adult  and  pediatric
pharmaceuticals and  nutritionals.  These products  are  sold primarily  on  the
prescription or recommendation of physicians or other health care professionals.
The   segment   also   includes  agricultural   and   chemical   products,  bulk
pharmaceuticals, and consumer products.

    Principal   pharmaceutical    and   nutritional    products   include    the
anti-infectives  clarithromycin, sold in  the United States  under the trademark
Biaxin-Registered Trademark- and outside the  United States primarily under  the
trademark  Klacid-Registered Trademark-,  and tosufloxacin, sold  in Japan under
the trademark Tosuxacin-Registered Trademark-;  various forms of the  antibiotic
erythromycin,  sold  primarily as  PCE-Registered  Trademark- or  polymer coated
erythromycin, Erythrocin-Registered Trademark-, and
E.E.S.-Registered Trademark-; agents for the  treatment of epilepsy and  bipolar
disorder,   including   Depakote-Registered   Trademark-;   a   broad   line  of
cardiovascular products,  including Loftyl-Registered  Trademark-, a  vasoactive
agent  sold outside the United States;  Hytrin-Registered Trademark-, used as an
anti-hypertensive  and  for  the  treatment  of  benign  prostatic  hyperplasia;
Abbokinase-Registered Trademark-, a thrombolytic drug;
Survanta-Registered  Trademark-, a bovine derived lung surfactant; various forms
of   prepared   infant   formula,   including   Similac-Registered   Trademark-,
Isomil-Registered   Trademark-,   Alimentum-Registered   Trademark-,   Toddler's
Best-TM-, and Similac NeoCare-TM-; and other medical and pediatric nutritionals,
including  Ensure-Registered  Trademark-,  Ensure  Plus-Registered   Trademark-,
Ensure-Registered   Trademark-   High  Protein,   Jevity-Registered  Trademark-,
Glucerna-Registered Trademark-, Advera-Registered Trademark-,
PediaSure-Registered Trademark-, Pedialyte-Registered Trademark-,
Pulmocare-Registered  Trademark-   and  Gain-Registered   Trademark-.   Consumer
products   include  the  dandruff  shampoo  Selsun  Blue-Registered  Trademark-;
Murine-Registered   Trademark-    eye    care    and    ear    care    products;
Tronolane-Registered Trademark- hemorrhoid medication; and
Faultless-Registered  Trademark-  rubber sundry  products.  Agricultural, animal
health,  and  chemical  products  include  plant  growth  regulators,  including
ProGibb-Registered Trademark-; herbicides; larvicides, including
VectoBac-Registered  Trademark-;  biologically  derived  insecticides, including
DiPel-Registered   Trademark-    and    XenTari-Registered    Trademark-;    and
anti-infectives, including Saraflox-Registered Trademark- and
Sarafin-Registered Trademark-.

    Pharmaceutical  and  nutritional  products are  generally  sold  directly to
retailers, wholesalers, health care facilities, and government agencies. In most
cases, they are  distributed from Company-owned  distribution centers or  public
warehouses.  Certain products are  co-marketed with other  companies. In certain
overseas countries, some of these products are marketed and distributed  through
distributors.  Primary  marketing  efforts  for  pharmaceutical  and nutritional
products are directed toward securing the prescription or recommendation of  the
Company's brand of products by physicians or other health care professionals. In
the United States managed care purchasers, for example

- ------------------------
* As  used throughout the text  of this report on  Form 10-K, the term "Company"
  refers to Abbott Laboratories, an Illinois corporation, or Abbott Laboratories
  and its consolidated subsidiaries, as the context requires.


health maintenance  organizations  (HMOs)  and pharmacy  benefit  managers,  are
becoming  increasingly important customers. Competition  is generally from other
broad line and specialized  health care manufacturers.  A significant aspect  of
competition is the search for technological innovations. The introduction of new
products  by competitors  and changes  in medical  practices and  procedures can
result in product obsolescence. In  addition, the substitution of generic  drugs
for  the brand prescribed has  increased competitive pressures on pharmaceutical
products.

    Consumer  products  are  promoted  directly   to  the  public  by   consumer
advertising.  These  products  are  generally  sold  directly  to  retailers and
wholesalers. Competitive products  are sold  by other  diversified consumer  and
health   care  companies.  Competitive  factors  include  consumer  advertising,
scientific innovation, price, and availability of generic product forms.

    Agricultural, animal  health and  chemical products  are generally  sold  to
agricultural distributors, animal health companies and pharmaceutical companies.
Competition   is  primarily  from  chemical,   animal  health  and  agricultural
companies. Competition  is based  on numerous  factors depending  on the  market
served.  Competitive factors  include product  performance, quality,  price, and
technological advantages.

    The  Company  is   the  leading   worldwide  producer   of  the   antibiotic
erythromycin.  Ensure-Registered Trademark-  is the  leading medical nutritional
worldwide. Similac-Registered  Trademark- is  a leading  infant formula  in  the
United States.

    Under  an agreement between the Company and Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.
of Japan (Takeda), TAP Holdings  Inc., (owned 50 percent  by the Company and  50
percent by Takeda) together with its subsidiary, TAP Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TAP),
develops   and   markets   products   in   the   United   States.   TAP  markets
Lupron-Registered Trademark-, an LH-RH analog, and Lupron
Depot-Registered Trademark- a sustained release form of
Lupron-Registered Trademark- in the United States. Lupron-Registered  Trademark-
and  Lupron Depot-Registered Trademark- are used for the palliative treatment of
advanced prostate  cancer, treatment  of  endometriosis and  central  precocious
puberty,  and  for  preoperative treatment  of  patients with  anemia  caused by
uterine   fibroids.    TAP   also    markets   Prevacid-Registered    Trademark-
(lansoprazole), a proton pump inhibitor, and has a co-promotion arrangement with
the  Company for Prevacid-Registered  Trademark-. Prevacid-Registered Trademark-
is indicated for short-term treatment of duodenal ulcers, esophagitis, and long-
term treatment of  Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.  The Company  also has  marketing
rights  to certain Takeda products in select Latin American markets. The Company
also markets Lupron-Registered  Trademark-, Lupron Depot-Registered  Trademark-,
and  Lupron Depot-Ped-Registered Trademark- in select markets outside the United
States.

HOSPITAL AND LABORATORY PRODUCTS

    Hospital and laboratory products include diagnostic systems for blood banks,
hospitals,  commercial   laboratories,   and   alternate-care   testing   sites;
intravenous   and  irrigation  fluids   and  related  administration  equipment,
including electronic drug  delivery systems;  drugs and  drug delivery  systems;
anesthetics;  critical care products;  and other medical  specialty products for
hospitals and alternate-care sites.

    The principal products included in this segment are parenteral  (intravenous
or   I.V.)  solutions   and  related   administration  equipment   sold  as  the
LifeCare-Registered Trademark- line of products,
LifeShield-Registered Trademark- needleless products, and
Venoset-Registered   Trademark-   products;   irrigating   fluids;    parenteral
nutritionals such as Aminosyn-Registered Trademark- and
Liposyn-Registered Trademark-; Plum-Registered Trademark- and
Omni-Flow-Registered  Trademark- electronic  drug delivery  systems; Abbott Pain
Manager-Registered  Trademark-;  patient-controlled  analgesia  (PCA)   systems;
venipuncture products; hospital injectables including
FirstChoice-Registered  Trademark-  generics;  premixed  I.V.  drugs  in various
containers; ADD-Vantage-Registered Trademark- and Nutrimix-Registered Trademark-
drug and  nutritional delivery  systems; Anne-Registered  Trademark-  anesthetic
infusion   systems;  anesthetics,   including  Pentothal-Registered  Trademark-,
Amidate-Registered Trademark-, sevoflurane (sold in the United States and a  few
other  markets as Ultane-Registered Trademark- and  outside of the United States
primarily under the  trademark Sevorane-Registered  Trademark-), isoflurane  and
enflurane;  Calcijex-Registered Trademark-, an injectable agent for treatment of
bone  disease  in  hemodialysis  patients;  critical  care  products   including
Opticath-Registered   Trademark-  and  OptiQue-TM-  advanced  sensor  catheters,
Transpac-Registered Trademark- for hemodynamic monitoring, and specialty cardiac
products; screening  tests  for  hepatitis  B, HTLV-1,  hepatitis  B  core,  and
hepatitis  C; tests  for detection  of AIDS  antibodies and  antigens, and other
infectious disease


detection systems;  tests  for  determining  levels of  abused  drugs  with  the
ADx-Registered  Trademark-  instrument; physiological  diagnostic  tests; cancer
monitoring tests including tests for prostate specific antigen; laboratory tests
and therapeutic  drug  monitoring  systems such  as  TDx-Registered  Trademark-;
clinical chemistry systems such as Abbott Spectrum-Registered Trademark-, Abbott
Spectrum-Registered Trademark- EPx-Registered Trademark-, Abbott
Spectrum-Registered Trademark- CCx-TM-, and Quantum-TM-;
AxSYM-Registered Trademark-, Commander-Registered Trademark-,
IMx-Registered  Trademark-,  and  Abbott  Prism-Registered  Trademark-  lines of
diagnostic instruments and chemical reagents used with immunoassay  diagnostics;
the  LCx-Registered Trademark- amplified  DNA probe system  and reagents; Abbott
Vision-Registered  Trademark-,   a   desk-top   blood   analyzer;   the   Abbott
TestPack-Registered Trademark- system for diagnostic testing; and a full line of
hematology  systems  and reagents  known  as the  Cell-Dyn-Registered Trademark-
series.

    The Company markets hospital  and laboratory products  in the United  States
and   many  other  countries.  These   products  are  generally  distributed  to
wholesalers and  directly to  hospitals, laboratories,  and physicians'  offices
from  distribution centers maintained by the Company. Sales are also made in the
home infusion services market, directly to patients receiving treatment  outside
the hospital through marketing arrangements with hospitals and other health care
providers.  Overseas  sales are  made either  directly  to customers  or through
distributors, depending on the market served.

    The hospital and laboratory products industry segment is highly competitive,
both in the United States and  overseas. This segment is subject to  competition
in  technological  innovation, price,  convenience  of use,  service, instrument
warranty  provisions,  product  performance,  long-term  supply  contracts,  and
product  potential  for  overall  cost  effectiveness  and  productivity  gains.
Products in  this segment  can be  subject to  rapid product  obsolescence.  The
Company  has benefitted from technological advantages  of certain of its current
products; however, these advantages may be reduced or eliminated as  competitors
introduce new products.

    The  Company  is  one of  the  leading  domestic manufacturers  of  I.V. and
irrigating  solutions   and   related   administration   equipment,   parenteral
nutritional products, anesthesia products, and drug delivery systems. It is also
the  worldwide leader in in vitro  diagnostic products, including thyroid tests,
therapeutic drug monitoring, cancer monitoring  tests, diagnostic tests for  the
detection of hepatitis and AIDS antibodies, and immunodiagnostic instruments.

         INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS IN GENERAL

SOURCES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS

    The  Company purchases,  in the ordinary  course of  business, necessary raw
materials and  supplies  essential to  the  Company's operations  from  numerous
suppliers  in  the  United  States  and  overseas.  There  have  been  no recent
availability problems or significant supply shortages.

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS, AND LICENSES

    The Company is aware of the desirability for patent and trademark protection
for its products. Accordingly, where possible, patents and trademarks are sought
and obtained for the Company's products  in the United States and all  countries
of  major marketing interest to the  Company. The Company owns, has applications
pending for, and is  licensed under a substantial  number of patents.  Principal
trademarks   and  the  products  they  cover  are  discussed  in  the  Narrative
Description of Business on pages  1, 2 and 3.  These, and various patents  which
expire  during the period 1996 to 2016, in  the aggregate, are believed to be of
material importance  in the  operation of  the Company's  business. The  Company
believes that no single patent, license, trademark (or related group of patents,
licenses,  or  trademarks),  except  for  those  related  to  clarithromycin, is
material in relation  to the Company's  business as a  whole. Clarithromycin  is
licensed  from Taisho  Pharmaceutical Co.,  Ltd. of  Tokyo, Japan.  Prior to the
implementation of the  Uruguay Round  of the  General Agreement  on Tariffs  and
Trade (GATT) by the United States, the patent on clarithromycin was scheduled to
expire  in the  United States in  2003. The intellectual  property provisions of
GATT appear to extend this expiration date to 2005.


SEASONAL ASPECTS, CUSTOMERS, BACKLOG, AND RENEGOTIATION

    There are no  significant seasonal  aspects to the  Company's business.  The
incidence  of  certain  infectious  diseases which  occur  at  various  times in
different areas of the world does, however, affect the demand for the  Company's
anti-infective  products. Orders for the Company's products are generally filled
on a current basis, and order backlog is not material to the Company's business.
No single  customer accounted  for sales  equaling  10 percent  or more  of  the
Company's  consolidated net sales. No material portion of the Company's business
is subject  to renegotiation  of  profits or  termination  of contracts  at  the
election of the government.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    The  Company  spent  $1,072,745,000  in  1995,  $963,516,000  in  1994,  and
$880,974,000 in  1993 on  research  to discover  and  develop new  products  and
processes  and to improve existing products and processes. The Company continues
to concentrate research expenditures in pharmaceutical and diagnostic products.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    The Company believes  that its  operations comply in  all material  respects
with  applicable  laws  and  regulations  concerning  environmental  protection.
Regulations  under  federal  and  state  environmental  laws  impose   stringent
limitations  on  emissions  and  discharges  to  the  environment  from  various
manufacturing operations. The Company's  capital and operating expenditures  for
pollution  control  in  1995 were  approximately  $18 million  and  $43 million,
respectively. Capital  and  operating  expenditures for  pollution  control  are
estimated to approximate $19 million and $43 million, respectively, in 1996.

    The  Company is participating as one of many potentially responsible parties
in investigation
and/or remediation at nine locations in the United States and Puerto Rico  under
the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,  Compensation,  and  Liability Act,
commonly known as Superfund. The aggregate  costs of remediation at these  sites
by  all identified parties are uncertain but have been subject to widely ranging
estimates totaling as much  as several hundred million  dollars. In many  cases,
the  Company believes that the actual costs  will be lower than these estimates,
and the fraction for which the Company  may be responsible is anticipated to  be
considerably  less and  will be  paid out  over a  number of  years. The Company
expects to  participate in  the investigation  or cleanup  at these  sites.  The
Company  is  also  voluntarily  investigating  potential  contamination  at  one
Company-owned site, and has initiated  voluntary remediation at three sites,  in
cooperation  with  the Environmental  Protection Agency  (EPA) or  similar state
agencies.

    While it is not feasible to predict with certainty the costs related to  the
previously  described investigation and cleanup activities, the Company believes
that such costs, together  with other expenditures  to maintain compliance  with
applicable  laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, should not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, cash  flows,
or results of operations.

EMPLOYEES

    The Company employed 50,241 persons as of December 31, 1995.

REGULATION

    The  development,  manufacture,  sale,  and  distribution  of  the Company's
products are subject  to comprehensive  government regulation,  and the  general
trend  is  toward more  stringent regulation.  Government regulation  by various
federal, state, and local  agencies, which includes  detailed inspection of  and
controls  over research and laboratory  procedures, clinical investigations, and
manufacturing, marketing,  sampling,  distribution, recordkeeping,  storage  and
disposal  practices,  substantially increases  the  time, difficulty,  and costs
incurred in obtaining and maintaining the approval to market newly developed and
existing products. Government regulatory  actions can result  in the seizure  or
recall  of products,  suspension or  revocation of  the authority  necessary for
their production and sale, and other civil or criminal sanctions.


    Continuing studies of the utilization,  safety, and efficacy of health  care
products  and  their  components  are being  conducted  by  industry, government
agencies, and  others. Such  studies,  which employ  increasingly  sophisticated
methods  and techniques,  can call  into question  the utilization,  safety, and
efficacy of previously marketed  products and in some  cases have resulted,  and
may  in the future result,  in the discontinuance of  marketing of such products
and give rise  to claims for  damages from  persons who believe  they have  been
injured as a result of their use.

    The  cost  of  human health  care  products  continues to  be  a  subject of
investigation and  action  by  governmental agencies,  legislative  bodies,  and
private  organizations in the  United States and other  countries. In the United
States, most states have enacted  generic substitution legislation requiring  or
permitting  a  dispensing pharmacist  to  substitute a  different manufacturer's
version of a pharmaceutical  product for the one  prescribed. Federal and  state
governments  continue to press efforts to  reduce costs of Medicare and Medicaid
programs, including restrictions on amounts agencies will reimburse for the  use
of  products. Manufacturers  must pay certain  statutorily-prescribed rebates on
Medicaid purchases for reimbursement on prescription drugs under state  Medicaid
plans.  In addition,  the federal  government follows  a diagnosis-related group
(DRG) payment system for certain institutional services provided under  Medicare
or  Medicaid.  The  DRG  system  entitles a  health  care  facility  to  a fixed
reimbursement based on discharge diagnoses rather than actual costs incurred  in
patient treatment, thereby increasing the incentive for the facility to limit or
control expenditures for many health care products. The Veterans Health Care Act
of  1992 requires manufacturers to extend additional discounts on pharmaceutical
products to  various  federal agencies,  including  the Department  of  Veterans
Affairs,   Department  of  Defense,  and  Public  Health  Service  entities  and
institutions.

    In the United States, governmental cost-containment efforts have extended to
the federally funded Special Supplemental  Food Program for Women, Infants,  and
Children  (WIC).  All states  participate in  WIC and  have sought  and obtained
rebates from manufacturers  of infant  formula whose  products are  used in  the
program.  All of the  states have also conducted  competitive bidding for infant
formula contracts which require the use of specific infant formula products  for
the  state WIC program. The Child Nutrition  and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989
requires all states participating in WIC to engage in competitive bidding or  to
use  any other cost containment measure that  yields savings equal to or greater
than the savings generated by a competitive bidding system.

    Governmental regulatory agencies now require manufacturers to pay additional
fees. Under the Prescription  Drug User Fee  Act of 1992,  the Federal Food  and
Drug  Administration (FDA)  imposes substantial fees  on various  aspects of the
approval,  manufacture  and  sale  of   prescription  drugs.  Congress  is   now
considering  expanding user fees  to medical devices.  The Company believes that
such legislation, if enacted, will add considerable expense for the Company.

    The Company expects debate to continue  during 1996 at both the federal  and
the  state  level over  the availability,  method of  delivery, and  payment for
health care products and services. The  Company believes that if legislation  is
enacted,  it could have the  effect of reducing prices,  or reducing the rate of
price increases, for medical products and services.

    International operations  are  also  subject  to  a  significant  degree  of
government   regulation.   Many  countries,   directly  or   indirectly  through
reimbursement limitations,  control  the  selling  price  of  most  health  care
products.  Furthermore, many developing  countries limit the  importation of raw
materials and finished products. International regulations are having an  impact
on  United  States  regulations,  as well.  The  International  Organization for
Standardization ("ISO") provides the  voluntary criteria for regulating  medical
devices within the European Economic Community. The Company has made significant
strides  in  gaining  ISO  9000  and  European  Union  46000  certification  for
facilities that manufacture devices for European markets. The FDA has  announced
that it will attempt to harmonize its regulation of medical devices with that of
the  ISO. Proposed changes to the FDA's regulations governing the manufacture of
medical  devices  appear  to  encompass   and  exceed  the  ISO's  approach   to


regulating  medical  devices.  The  FDA's  adoption  of  the  ISO's  approach to
regulation and other changes  to the manner in  which the FDA regulates  medical
devices will increase the cost of compliance with those regulations.

    Efforts  to reduce  health care  costs are  also being  made in  the private
sector. Health  care  providers  have  responded  by  instituting  various  cost
reduction and containment measures.

    It  is not possible to predict the extent to which the Company or the health
care industry in general might be affected by the matters discussed above.

                            INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    The  Company  markets  products  in  approximately  130  countries   through
affiliates  and distributors.  Most of the  products discussed  in the preceding
sections of this report  are also sold outside  the United States. In  addition,
certain products of a local nature and variations of product lines to meet local
regulatory  requirements and marketing preferences are manufactured and marketed
to customers outside the United States. International operations are subject  to
certain  additional  risks inherent  in conducting  business outside  the United
States, including  price and  currency exchange  controls, changes  in  currency
exchange  rates,  limitations  on foreign  participation  in  local enterprises,
expropriation, nationalization, and other governmental action.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company's corporate offices are located at 100 Abbott Park Road,  Abbott
Park,  Illinois 60064-3500. The locations of a number of the Company's principal
plants are listed below.



    In addition to the  above, the Company has  manufacturing facilities in  six
other  locations in  the United States  and Puerto  Rico. Overseas manufacturing
facilities are  located in  18  other countries.  The Company's  facilities  are
deemed  suitable,  provide adequate  productive  capacity, and  are  utilized at
normal and acceptable levels.

    In the United States  and Puerto Rico, the  Company owns seven  distribution
centers.  The Company  also has  eleven United  States research  and development
facilities located at Abbott  Park, Illinois; Ashland,  Ohio; Columbus, Ohio  (2
locations); Irving, Texas; Long Grove, Illinois; Madera,


California;  Mountain View, California; North Chicago, Illinois; Salt Lake City,
Utah; and  Santa  Clara, California.  Overseas,  the Company  has  research  and
development  facilities in Argentina, Australia,  Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan,
The Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.

    The corporate offices, and those principal plants in the United States  that
are  listed above  are owned,  other than the  plants located  in Mountain View,
California which are leased.  The remaining manufacturing  plants and all  other
facilities are owned or leased by the Company or subsidiaries of the Company.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The  Company is involved  in various claims  and legal proceedings including
(as of January 31,  1996) 23 antitrust suits,  one shareholder derivative  suit,
and  5 investigations  in connection  with the  Company's sale  and marketing of
infant formula  products,  and  133  antitrust  suits  in  connection  with  the
Company's  pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals. The Company is also involved
in a civil proceeding involving certain Illinois environmental laws.

    The infant formula antitrust  suits allege that  the Company conspired  with
one  or more of its competitors to fix prices, restrain trade and monopolize the
market for infant formula products in  violation of state and federal  antitrust
laws.  The suits  have been  brought on behalf  of individuals,  the Nestle Food
Company, and  state government  agencies  and name  the Company,  certain  other
infant  formula manufacturers  and, in some  instances, the  American Academy of
Pediatrics as defendants.  The cases  seek treble damages,  civil penalties  and
other relief.

    A  total of twelve  infant formula antitrust suits  are currently pending in
the following state courts: Calhoun County, Alabama (2 cases); St. Clair County,
Illinois; Sedgwick County,  Kansas; Hennepin County,  Minnesota; Ramsey  County,
Minnesota;  Holmes County,  Mississippi; Burleigh  County, North  Dakota; Holmes
County, South  Dakota;  Kanwaha County,  West  Virginia; and  Milwaukee  County,
Wisconsin  (2 cases). The case pending  in Sedgwick County, Kansas was certified
as a class action  on March 2, 1995  and went to trial  on October 10, 1995.  On
December  6,  1995 the  jury returned  a verdict  in favor  of the  Company. The
plaintiffs filed a motion for a new trial on December 28, 1995. This motion  was
denied  on February 15, 1996. The plaintiffs are expected to appeal. On December
4, 1995,
the court granted summary judgment in favor  of the Company with respect to  the
case that had been pending in Calhoun County, Michigan, having previously denied
class  certification on  May 22,  1995. Plaintiffs filed  a notice  of appeal on
December 26,  1995. On  November 13,  1995 the  case that  had been  pending  in
Harrison  County, Texas was voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiffs. On November
17, 1995  the parties  settled the  case which  had been  brought by  the  Texas
Attorney  General and which had been pending  in Travis County, Texas. Under the
terms of the settlement the Company does not admit any liability but does  agree
to  pay approximately $250,000 in cash and $500,000 in nutritional products. The
two cases that are pending in Milwaukee County, Wisconsin have been certified as
a class action. They are scheduled to go  to trial on June 10, 1996. On  October
20,  1995, the case  pending in Holmes  County, South Dakota  was certified as a
class action. The case that had  been pending in Jefferson County, Kentucky  was
dismissed  on December 12, 1995. The  plaintiffs have appealed. Five other cases
that had been pending in the following state courts have also been dismissed and
are now on appeal:  Boulder County, Colorado;  Okaloosa County, Florida;  Washoe
County,  Nevada; Jackson County,  North Carolina; and  Blount County, Tennessee.
Three infant formula antitrust cases are  pending in federal courts in  Florida,
Louisiana,  and Massachusetts  and all purport  to be  state-wide consumer class
actions. The Company  has filed or  intends to file  a response to  each of  the
complaints denying all substantive allegations. In addition, on June 19, 1995, a
jury  in federal court in Los Angeles,  California found in favor of the Company
and the American  Academy of  Pediatrics in  the infant  formula antitrust  case
brought by Nestle Food Company ("Nestle"). Nestle has appealed this verdict. The
shareholder derivative suit that had been pending in state court in Cook County,
Illinois  was dismissed on December 15,  1995. The plaintiffs have appealed. The
shareholder derivative suit named all of the Company's present directors  (other
than Allen F. Jacobson) and a former executive officer as defendants and alleged
that  the defendants breached their fiduciary  duty to the Company by permitting
antitrust violations  in connection  with the  Company's sale  and marketing  of
infant


formula  products. The  plaintiffs sought to  hold the defendants  liable for an
amount exceeding $140  million in  connection with the  Company's settlement  of
certain antitrust litigation arising out of its marketing of infant formula. The
investigations  are being  conducted by the  Attorneys General of  the states of
California, Connecticut, New  York, Pennsylvania and  Wisconsin. On January  23,
1996,  the Canadian Bureau of  Competition Policy closed both  its civil and its
criminal investigations.

    As of January  31, 1996, 114  prescription pharmaceutical pricing  antitrust
cases  were pending  in federal court  and 19  were pending in  state court. The
prescription  pharmaceutical  pricing  antitrust   suits  allege  that   various
pharmaceutical  manufacturers  have  conspired to  fix  prices  for prescription
pharmaceuticals and/or  to  discriminate  in pricing  to  retail  pharmacies  by
providing  discounts to mail-order pharmacies, institutional pharmacies and HMOs
in violation of state and federal antitrust laws. The suits have been brought on
behalf of  individuals and  retail  pharmacies and  name  both the  Company  and
certain other pharmaceutical manufacturers and pharmaceutical wholesalers and at
least  one  mail-order pharmacy  company as  defendants.  The cases  seek treble
damages, civil penalties, injunctive and other relief. The Company has filed  or
intends  to file a  response to each  of the complaints  denying all substantive
allegations. The state cases are pending  in the following state courts:  Clarke
County  and  Greene County,  Alabama; Yavapai  County, Arizona;  Alameda County,
California; Monterey  County, California;  San Francisco  County, California  (8
cases);  San  Joaquin County,  California; New  York  County, New  York; Oakland
County, Michigan; Hennepin  County, Minnesota;  and Dane  County and  Washington
County,  Wisconsin. The cases which had  been pending in King County, Washington
and Denver County, Colorado have been  dismissed. The federal cases are  pending
in  the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois under
the Multidistrict  Litigation  Rules as  IN  RE: BRAND  NAME  PRESCRIPTION  DRUG
ANTITRUST  LITIGATION, MDL 997. One of the cases which is pending in the MDL 997
litigation has been  certified as  a class action  on behalf  of certain  retail
pharmacies. The Company has entered into an agreement to settle the class action
portion  of the MDL 997 litigation. The agreement does not become final until it
is approved by  the United States  District Court for  the Northern District  of
Illinois.

    On March 31, 1995 the Illinois Attorney General informed the Company that it
proposed  the assessment of  a civil penalty  of $750,000 in  connection with an
administrative enforcement  action initiated  in  May of  1993 by  the  Illinois
Environmental  Protection  Agency against  the  Company. The  enforcement action
alleges that the Company violated its waste water discharge permits and  certain
Illinois environmental laws at its North Chicago, Illinois facility. The Company
intends to defend itself in this matter and to deny all substantive allegations.

    While  it is  not feasible  to predict the  outcome of  such pending claims,
proceedings, and investigations  with certainty,  management is  of the  opinion
that their ultimate disposition should not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, cash flows, or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Officers  of the Company are  elected annually by the  board of directors at
the first meeting held after the annual shareholders meeting. Each officer holds
office until  a successor  has been  duly  elected and  qualified or  until  the
officer's death, resignation, or removal. Vacancies may be filled at any meeting
of  the board. Any officer may be removed by the board of directors when, in its
judgment, removal would serve the best interests of the Company.

    Current corporate  officers, and  their ages  as of  February 9,  1996,  are
listed  below. The officers'  principal occupations and  employment from January
1991 to the present  and the dates  of their first election  as officers of  the
Company  are also shown. Unless otherwise  stated, employment was by the Company
for the  period  indicated.  There  are  no  family  relationships  between  any
corporate officers or directors.


DUANE L. BURNHAM**, 54

    1991 to present -- Chairman  of the  Board and Chief  Executive Officer, and
                       Director.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1982.

THOMAS R. HODGSON**, 54

    1991 to present -- President and Chief Operating Officer, and Director.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1980.

JOY A. AMUNDSON**, 41

    1991 to 1994 -- Vice President, Corporate Hospital Marketing.

    1994 to 1995 -- Vice President, HealthSystems.

    1995 to present -- Senior  Vice   President,   Chemical   and   Agricultural
                       Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.

PAUL N. CLARK**, 49

    1991 to present -- Senior Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.

GARY P. COUGHLAN**, 51

    1991 to present -- Senior   Vice  President,  Finance  and  Chief  Financial
                       Officer.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1990.

JOSE M. DE LASA**, 54

    1991 to 1994 -- Vice President and Associate General Counsel,  Bristol-Myers
                    Squibb Company (Health and personal care products company).

    1994 -- Vice   President,   Secretary   and   Associate   General   Counsel,
            Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.

    1994 to present -- Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1994.

JOHN G. KRINGEL**, 56

    1991 to present -- Senior Vice President, Hospital Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1981.

THOMAS M. MCNALLY**, 48

    1991 to 1993 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.

    1993 to present -- Senior Vice President, Ross Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1989.

DAVID V. MILLIGAN**, 55

    1991 to 1992 -- Vice   President,   Diagnostic    Products   Research    and
                    Development.

    1992 to 1994 -- Vice   President,   Pharmaceutical  Products   Research  and
                    Development.

    1994 to present -- Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1984.


ROBERT L. PARKINSON, JR.**, 45

    1991 to 1993 -- Vice President, European Operations.

    1993 to 1995 -- Senior Vice President, Chemical and Agricultural Products.

    1995 to present -- Senior Vice President, International Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1989.

ELLEN M. WALVOORD**, 56

    1991 -- Director, Corporate Communications.

    1991 -- Vice President, Investor Relations.

    1991 to 1995 -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs.

    1995 to present -- Senior Vice President, Human Resources.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1991.

MILES D. WHITE**, 40

    1991 to 1992 -- Divisional Vice  President  and  General  Manager,  Hospital
                    Laboratory Sector.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional  Vice President  and General  Manager, Diagnostic
                    Systems and Operations.

    1993 to 1994 -- Vice President, Diagnostic Systems and Operations.

    1994 to present -- Senior Vice President, Diagnostic Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

CATHERINE V. BABINGTON**, 43

    1991 to 1995 -- Director, Corporate Communications.

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Investor Relations and Public Affairs.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

MARK E. BARMAK, 54

    1991 to 1995 -- Divisional  Vice  President,   Associate  General   Counsel,
                    Litigation.

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Litigation and Government Affairs.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

CHRISTOPHER B. BEGLEY, 43

    1991 to 1993 -- Divisional  Vice  President  and  General  Manager, Hospital
                    Products Business Sector.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Hospital Products Business Sector.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

THOMAS D. BROWN, 47

    1991 to 1992 -- Divisional Vice President, Western Hemisphere.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Commercial Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.


GARY R. BYERS**, 54

    1991 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Corporate Auditing.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Internal Audit.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

KENNETH W. FARMER**, 50

    1991 to present -- Vice  President,  Management  Information  Services   and
                       Administration.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.

THOMAS C. FREYMAN**, 41

    1991 -- Treasurer, Abbott International Ltd. (a subsidiary of the Company).

    1991 to present -- Vice President and Treasurer.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1991.

DAVID B. GOFFREDO, 41

    1991 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Pharmaceutical Marketing.

    1993 to 1995 -- Divisional   Vice   President,   Pharmaceutical   Sales  and
                    Marketing.

    1995 to present -- Vice President,  Pharmaceutical  Products  Marketing  and
                       Sales.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

RICHARD A. GONZALEZ**, 42

    1991 to 1995 -- Divisional  Vice President and  General Manager, U.S./Canada
                    Diagnostics.

    1995 to present -- Vice President, HealthSystems.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

JAY B. JOHNSTON, 52

    1991 to 1992 -- President, Dainabot Co., Ltd. (an affiliate of the  Company)
                    and   General  Manager  Asia   Pacific,  Abbott  Diagnostics
                    Division.

    1992 -- Divisional Vice President, Business Development.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice  President and  General Manager,  Diagnostic
                    Assays and Operations.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Diagnostic Assays and Systems.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

JAMES J. KOZIARZ, 47

    1991 to 1992 -- Divisional  Vice President  and General  Manager, Diagnostic
                    Assays.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Diagnostic Products Research  and
                    Development.

    1993 to present -- Vice   President,   Diagnostic   Products   Research  and
                       Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

JOHN F. LUSSEN**, 54

    1991 to present -- Vice President, Taxes.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.


RICHARD H. MOREHEAD**, 61

    1991 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Planning and Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1985.

THEODORE A. OLSON**, 57

    1991 to present -- Vice President and Controller.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1988.

ANDRE G. PERNET, 51

    1991 to 1992 -- Divisional  Vice  President,   Therapeutic  Area   Ventures,
                    Pharmaceutical Products Division.

    1992 to 1994 -- Divisional   Vice  President,   Pharmaceutical  Development,
                    Pharmaceutical Products Division.

    1994 to present -- Vice  President,  Pharmaceutical  Products  Research  and
                       Development.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1994.

CARL A. SPALDING, 50

    1991 to 1992 -- Vice    President,   International,    Johnson   &   Johnson
                    (manufacturer of health care products serving the  consumer,
                    pharmaceutical and professional markets).

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional  Vice  President/General Manager,  Ross Pediatric
                    Products.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Ross Pediatric Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

WILLIAM H. STADTLANDER, 50

    1991 to 1992 -- Divisional Vice President, Medical Nutritionals.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional  Vice  President  and  General  Manager,  Medical
                    Nutritionals.

    1993 to present -- Vice President, Ross Medical Nutritional Products.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

JOSEF WENDLER, 46

    1991 to 1992 -- Regional Director, Europe, Diagnostic Division.

    1992 to 1993 -- Divisional Vice President, Pacific, Asia, Africa.

    1993 to 1995 -- Vice President, Pacific/Asia /Africa Operations.

    1995 to present -- Vice President, European Operations.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1993.

DON G. WRIGHT**, 53

    1991 to present -- Vice   President,   Corporate   Quality   Assurance   and
                       Regulatory Affairs.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1988.

LANCE B. WYATT**, 51

    1991 to 1995 -- Divisional Vice President, Quality Assurance and  Regulatory
                    Affairs.

    1995 to present -- Vice President, Corporate Engineering.

    Elected Corporate Officer -- 1995.

- ------------------------
** Pursuant  to Item 401(b)  of Regulation S-K the  Company has identified these
   persons as "executive officers" within the meaning of Item 401(b).


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

PRINCIPAL MARKET

    The principal market for the Company's  common shares is the New York  Stock
Exchange.  Shares are also listed on the Chicago and Pacific Stock Exchanges and
are traded on the Boston, Cincinnati, and Philadelphia Exchanges. Overseas,  the
Company's  shares are listed  on the London  Stock Exchange and  the Swiss Stock
Exchanges of Zurich, Basel, and Geneva.



    Market prices  are as  reported by  the New  York Stock  Exchange  composite
transaction reporting system.

SHAREHOLDERS

    There  were  89,831 shareholders  of record  of Abbott  common shares  as of
December 31, 1995.

DIVIDENDS

    Quarterly dividends of $.21  per share and $.19  per share were declared  on
common shares in 1995 and 1994, respectively.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    Incorporated  herein by  reference for the  years 1991 through  1995 are the
applicable portions  of the  section captioned  "Summary of  Selected  Financial
Data" of the 1995 Annual Report.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    Incorporated  herein by reference is management's discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations for the years 1995, 1994, and 1993
found under the section captioned "Financial Review" of the 1995 Annual Report.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Incorporated herein by reference are the portions of the 1995 Annual  Report
captioned  Consolidated  Balance  Sheet,  Consolidated  Statement  of  Earnings,
Consolidated Statement of  Cash Flows, Consolidated  Statement of  Shareholders'
Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Report of Independent
Public  Accountants (which  contains the related  report of  Arthur Andersen LLP
dated January 15, 1996). Data relating to quarterly results is found in Note 8.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Incorporated herein by reference are "Committees of the Board of Directors,"
"Information Concerning  Nominees for  Directors" and  "Compliance with  Section
16(a)  of  The  Securities  Exchange  Act of  1934"  found  in  the  1996 Abbott
Laboratories Proxy Statement ("1996 Proxy Statement").


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The material  in  the 1996  Proxy  Statement under  the  heading  "Executive
Compensation,"  other  than  the  Report  of  the  Compensation  Committee,  the
Performance Graph, and Security Ownership  of Officers and Directors are  hereby
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Incorporated  herein  by  reference  is the  text  found  under  the caption
"Information Concerning Security Ownership" and  the material under the  heading
"Security Ownership of Officers and Directors" in the 1996 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    None.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)  DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS FORM 10-K.

    1.   FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS:  The  Consolidated Financial  Statements for the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and  1993 and the related report of  Arthur
Andersen  LLP dated January  15, 1996 appearing  under the portions  of the 1995
Annual Report captioned  Consolidated Balance Sheet,  Consolidated Statement  of
Earnings,  Consolidated  Statement  of  Cash  Flows,  Consolidated  Statement of
Shareholders' Investment, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and  Report
of  Independent Public Accountants, respectively,  are incorporated by reference
in response to  Item 14(a)1.  With the  exception of  the portions  of the  1995
Annual  Report specifically incorporated herein  by reference, such Report shall
not be deemed  filed as part  of this Annual  Report on Form  10-K or  otherwise
deemed  subject to the liabilities of Section  18 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

    2.   FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  SCHEDULES:    The  required  financial  statement
schedules are found on the pages indicated below. These schedules should be read
in  conjunction with  the Consolidated Financial  Statements in  the 1995 Annual
Report:



    3.  EXHIBITS REQUIRED BY ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K:  The information called
for by this paragraph is incorporated  herein by reference to the Exhibit  Index
on pages 18 and 19 of this Form 10-K.

  (b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K DURING THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995:

       No  reports on Form 8-K were filed  during the quarter ended December 31,
       1995.

  (c)  EXHIBITS FILED (SEE EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGES 18 AND 19).

  (d)  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES FILED (PAGE 20).


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of  1934, Abbott  Laboratories has duly  caused this  report to  be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          ABBOTT LABORATORIES

                                          By /s/ DUANE L. BURNHAM
                                             Duane L. Burnham
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                             Chief Executive Officer

                                             Date: February 9, 1996

    Pursuant  to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934, this
report has  been signed  below by  the  following persons  on behalf  of  Abbott
Laboratories on February 9, 1996 in the capacities indicated below.

/s/ DUANE L. BURNHAM
Duane L. Burnham
Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and
Director of Abbott Laboratories
(principal executive officer)

/s/ GARY P. COUGHLAN
Gary P. Coughlan
Senior Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer
(principal financial officer)

/s/ THOMAS R. HODGSON
Thomas R. Hodgson
President, Chief Operating Officer
and Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ THEODORE A. OLSON
Theodore A. Olson
Vice President and Controller
(principal accounting officer)

/s/ K. FRANK AUSTEN
K. Frank Austen, M.D.
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ H. LAURANCE FULLER
H. Laurance Fuller
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ BERNARD J. HAYHOE
Bernard J. Hayhoe
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ ALLEN F. JACOBSON
Allen F. Jacobson
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ DAVID A. JONES
David A. Jones
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ BOONE POWELL, JR.
Boone Powell, Jr.
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ A. BARRY RAND
A. Barry Rand
Director of Abbott Laboratories


/s/ W. ANN REYNOLDS
W. Ann Reynolds
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ WILLIAM D. SMITHBURG
William D. Smithburg
Director of Abbott Laboratories

/s/ JOHN R. WALTER
John R. Walter
Director of Abbott Laboratories


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                              ABBOTT LABORATORIES
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
                                   FORM 10-K






- ---------
 * Incorporated herein by reference.

** Denotes  management contract or compensatory  plan or arrangement required to
   be filed as an exhibit hereto.

    The Company  will  furnish  copies  of  any  of  the  above  exhibits  to  a
shareholder   upon   written  request   to   the  Corporate   Secretary,  Abbott
Laboratories, 100 Abbott Park Road, Abbott Park, Illinois 60064-3500.


                      ABBOTT LABORATORIES AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



- ---------

(a) Represents provisions related  to allowances for  doubtful accounts and  the
    net change in the allowances for sales deductions.


             SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Abbott Laboratories:

    We  have audited in  accordance with generally  accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements included in the Company's Annual Report incorporated by
reference in this Form  10-K, and have issued  our report thereon dated  January
15,  1996. Our audits were  made for the purpose of  forming an opinion on those
statements taken as a whole. Schedule II is the responsibility of the  Company's
management,  is  presented for  purposes of  complying  with the  Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules, and is not part of the basic financial  statements.
This  schedule  has been  subjected to  the auditing  procedures applied  in the
audits of the basic financial statements  and, in our opinion, fairly states  in
all  material respects the  financial data required  to be set  forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Chicago, Illinois,
January 15, 1996


