Item 1.Business.



GENERAL



Perrigo Company plc (formerly known as Perrigo Company Limited, and prior thereto, Blisfont Limited) ("Perrigo" or "the Company"), was incorporated under the laws of Ireland on June 28, 2013, and became the successor registrant of Perrigo Company on December 18, 2013 in connection with the consummation of the acquisition of Elan Corporation, plc ("Elan"), which is discussed further below.  From its beginnings as a packager of home remedies in 1887, Perrigo has grown to become a leading global healthcare supplier.  Perrigo develops, manufactures and distributes over-the-counter ("OTC") and generic prescription ("Rx") pharmaceuticals, nutritional products and active pharmaceutical ingredients ("API"), and has a specialty sciences business comprised of assets focused predominantly on the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis (Tysabri®).  The Company is the world's largest manufacturer of OTC healthcare products for the store brand market.  Perrigo's mission is to offer uncompromised "Quality Affordable Healthcare Products®", and it does so across a wide variety of product categories primarily in the United States, United Kingdom, Mexico, Israel and Australia, as well as many other key markets worldwide, including Canada, China and Latin America.

The Company operates through several wholly owned subsidiaries. In the U.S., its operations are conducted primarily through L. Perrigo Company, Perrigo Company of South Carolina, Inc., Perrigo New York, Inc., PBM Products, LLC, PBM Nutritionals, LLC, Paddock Laboratories, LLC, Perrigo Diabetes Care, LLC, Sergeant's Pet Care Products, Inc. and Fidopharm, Inc. Outside the U.S., its operations are conducted primarily through Elan Pharma International Limited, Perrigo Israel Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Perrigo API Ltd., Quimica y Farmacia S.A. de C.V., Laboratorios Diba, S.A., Wrafton Laboratories Limited, Galpharm Healthcare Ltd., Orion Laboratories Pty Ltd and Rosemont Pharmaceuticals Ltd.  As used herein, references to the "Company" mean Perrigo Company plc, its subsidiaries and all predecessors of Perrigo Company plc and its subsidiaries.

The Company’s principal executive offices are located at the Treasury Building, Lower Grand Canal Street, Dublin 2, Ireland and the administrative offices are located at 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, MI. Its telephone number is +353 1 7094002. The Company’s website address iswww.perrigo.com, where the Company makes available free of charge the Company’s reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These filings are also available to the public atwww.sec.govandwww.isa.gov.il.

The Company hasfivereportable segments, aligned primarily by type of product: Consumer Healthcare, Nutritionals, Rx Pharmaceuticals, API, and Specialty Sciences.  In conjunction with the acquisition of Elan, the










Company expanded its operating segments to include the Specialty Sciences segment, which is comprised of assets focused predominantly on the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis (Tysabri®).In addition, the Company has an Other category that consists of the Israel Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products operating segment, which does not individually meet the quantitative thresholds required to be a separately reportable segment.  This segment structure is consistent with the way management makes operating decisions, allocates resources and manages the growth and profitability of the Company’s business.

Information concerning sales and operating income attributable to each of the Company’s business segments and geographic areas for the last three fiscal years ended on or around June 30 is set forth in Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and inNote 17of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Information concerning identifiable assets of each of the Company’s reportable segments as of the last three fiscal years ended on or around June 30 is set forth inNote 17of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Elan Acquisition



On December 18, 2013, the Company acquired Elan for a purchase price totaling approximately $9.5 billion, which consisted of cash consideration totaling approximately $3.3 billion and Perrigo share consideration valued at approximately $6.1 billion.



The acquisition of Elan, headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, provided the Company with assets focused on the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis (Tysabri®).  The Company's management believes the acquisition of Elan will provide recurring annual operational synergies, related cost reductions and tax savings.  Certain of these synergies result from the elimination of redundant public company costs while optimizing back-office support.  Additionally, due to changes to the jurisdictional mix of income and the new corporate structure following the acquisition of Elan, the Company was able to reduce its effective tax rate.



The operating results for Elan were included in a new "Specialty Sciences" segment of the Company's Consolidated Results of Operations beginning December 18, 2013.  Additional information related to the acquisition of Elan and business segments is presented inNote 2andNote 17, respectively, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.





CONSUMER HEALTHCARE



The Consumer Healthcare ("CHC") segment is the world’s largest store brand manufacturer of OTC pharmaceutical products. Major product categories include analgesics, cough/cold/allergy/sinus, gastrointestinal, smoking cessation and animal health; secondary product categories include feminine hygiene, diabetes care and dermatological care.



The CHC business markets products that are comparable in quality and effectiveness to national brand products. The cost to the retailer of a store brand product is significantly lower than that of a comparable nationally advertised brand-name product. Generally, the retailers’ dollar profit per unit of store brand product is greater than the dollar profit per unit of the comparable national brand product. The retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product and realize a greater profit margin. The consumer benefits by receiving a high quality product at a price below the comparable national brand product. Therefore, the Company's business model saves consumers on their healthcare spending. The Company, one of the original architects of private label pharmaceuticals, is the market leader for store brand consumer healthcare products in many of the geographies where it currently competes – the U.S., U.K., and Mexico – and is continuing to develop a leadership position in Australia. The Company's market share of OTC store brand products has grown in recent yearsas new products, retailer efforts to increase consumer education and awareness, and economic conditions have directed consumers to the value of store brand product offerings.

Consumer Healthcare Business

The Company is dedicated to being the leader in developing and marketing new store brand products and has a research and development staff that management believes is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. This team also responds to changes in existing national brand products by reformulating existing Company products. In the OTC pharmaceutical market, certain new products are the result of changes in product status from "prescription










only" (Rx) to OTC (non-prescription).These “Rx-to-OTC switches” require approval by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), a process initiated by the drug innovator, usually through the filing of a New Drug Application ("NDA") followed by generics filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA").As part of its strategy, the Company relies on both internal development and strategic product development agreements with outside sources. In addition, the Company also engages in contract manufacturing, which focuses on partnerships with major pharmaceutical, multi-level marketing and direct-to-consumer companies by providing unique ANDA and monograph products to its contract customers to maximize sales of proprietary formulas and to utilize available capacity.

The Company is committed to consistently providing its customers with high quality products that adhere to "Current Good Manufacturing Practices" ("cGMP") regulations promulgated by the FDA and the health ministries of countries where the Company has commercial and operational presence. Substantially all products are developed using ingredients and formulas comparable to those of national brand products. In most instances, packaging is designed to increase visibility of store brand products and to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products in order to communicate store brand value to the consumer.

The Company seeks to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high quality, value priced products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories and support in managing and building the customer’s store brand business. The Company also seeks to establish customer loyalty by providing marketing support that is directed at developing customized marketing programs for the customers’ store brand products. The primary objective of this store brand management approach is to enable customers to increase sales of their own store brand products by communicating store brand quality and value to the consumer. The Company’s sales and marketing personnel assist customers in the development and introduction of new store brand products and the promotion of customers’ existing store brand products by performing consumer research, providing market information and establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs.

The Consumer Healthcare segment currently markets over2,800store brand products, with over11,000stock-keeping units ("SKUs"), to over1,100customers. The Company considers every different combination of size, flavor, strength and dosage form (e.g., tablet, liquid, softgel, etc.) of a given item as a separate "product." The Company also currently manufactures and markets certain products under its Good Sense®, Sergeant's®, Sentry®, Herron®, and PetArmor® brands.



Listed below are major Consumer Healthcare product categories the Company markets products under store brand labels, the annual retail market size for retailers in the U.S. (according to SymphonyIRI Group), and the names of certain national brands against which the Company’s store brand products compete.

Product CategoriesRetailMarket Size(Billions)Comparable National BrandsCough/Cold/Allergy/Sinus$7.2Advil®, Afrin®, Alka Seltzer®, Allegra®, Benadryl®, Claritin®, DayQuil®, Delsym®, Dimetapp®,  Mucinex®, NyQuil®, Robitussin®, Sudafed®, Theraflu®, Triaminic®, Tylenol®, Vicks®, Zyrtec®Gastrointestinal$3.9Immodium A-D®, Maalox®, MiraLAX®, Mylanta®, Pepcid® AC, Pepto Bismol®, Phillips®, Prevacid®, Prilosec OTC®, Tagamet HB®, Tums®, Zantac®Analgesics$3.5Advil®, Aleve®, Bayer®, Excedrin®, Motrin®, Tylenol®Smoking Cessation$0.9Nicorette®Animal Health$0.5Capstar®, Cosequin®, Frontline®, Heartgard®, Parastar®Diabetes Care$0.5OneTouch Accu-check®

The Company’s U.S.-based customers are major national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including Walmart, CVS, Walgreens, Kroger, Target, Dollar General, Rite Aid, Sam’s Club, Costco, Petco and Petsmart and major wholesalers, including McKesson, Cardinal Health and AmerisourceBergen.

The Consumer Healthcare segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers and uses industry brokers for some retailers. Field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service, are assigned to specific customers in order to understand and work most effectively with the customer. They assist customers in developing in-store marketing programs for consumers and optimize communication of customers’










needs to the rest of the Company. Industry brokers provide a distribution channel for some products, primarily those marketed under the Good Sense® label.



In contrast to national brand manufacturers, which incur considerable advertising and marketing expenditures targeted directly to the end consumer, the Consumer Healthcare segment’s primary marketing efforts are channeled through its customers, the retailers and wholesalers, and reach the consumer through its customers’ in-store marketing programs as well as the Company's own digital media programs. These programs are intended to communicate store brand value to the consumer by increasing visibility of store brand products and inviting comparison to national brand products. Merchandising vehicles such as floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs and promotional packs are incorporated into customers’ programs. Because the retailer profit margin for store brand products is generally higher than for national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions. The Company’s marketing efforts are also directed at new product introductions and product conversions, as well as providing market data. Market analysis and research is used to monitor trends for individual products and product categories and develop category management recommendations. In addition, the Company's animal health business, which has a greater emphasis on branded products, utilizes direct to consumer advertising, including television commercials, on-line advertising, in-store display vehicles and social media, to promote product awareness.



Recent Developments



On February 28, 2014, the Company acquired a basket of value-brand OTC products sold in Australia and New Zealand from Aspen Global Inc. ("Aspen") for $53.7 million in cash.  The acquisition of this product portfolio broadens the Company's product offering in Australia and New Zealand and furthers the Company's strategy to expand the Consumer Healthcare portfolio internationally.



New Product Introductions and Drug Application Approvals



The Company launched various new products in CHC in fiscal2014, most notably nicotine mini lozenges. Net sales related to all new products in CHC were$60.9 millionfor fiscal2014,$53.0 millionfor fiscal2013and$101.7 millionfor fiscal2012.  A Consumer Healthcare product is considered new if it was added to the Company’s product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured.



In fiscal2014, the Company, on its own or in conjunction with partners, received final approval from the FDA foroneOTC drug application.  As ofJune 28, 2014, the Company, on its own or in conjunction with partners, had17OTC drug applications pending approval with the FDA.



Competition



The market for OTC pharmaceutical products is highly competitive. Competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality and assortment of products, customer service, marketing support and availability of and approvals for new products. The Company believes it competes favorably in these areas.



The Company’s competition in store brand products consists of several publicly traded and privately owned companies, including brand-name pharmaceutical companies. The competition is highly fragmented in terms of both geographic market coverage and product categories, such that a competitor generally does not compete across all product lines. Some of the Company’s competitors in the U.S. Consumer Healthcare market are Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Ltd., Actavis Inc., Ranbaxy Inc., PL Developments, Nipro Corporation, and LNK International, Inc.  The Company’s store brand products also compete with nationally advertised brand-name products. Most of the national brand companies have financial resources substantially greater than those of the Company. National brand companies could in the future manufacture more store brand products or lower prices of their national brand products. Additionally, certain generic prescription drug manufacturers have elected to pursue OTC marketing status for products that have switched or are switching from Rx to OTC status.














NUTRITIONALS



The Nutritionals segment develops, manufactures, markets and distributes store brand infant and toddler formula products, infant and toddler foods, and vitamin, mineral and dietary supplement ("VMS") products to retailers, distributors and consumers primarily in the U.S., Canada, Mexico and China. Similar to the Consumer Healthcare segment, this business markets store brand products that are comparable in quality and formulation to the national brand products. The cost to the retailer of a store brand product is significantly lower than that of a comparable nationally advertised brand-name product. The retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product yet realize a greater profit margin. All infant formulas sold in the U.S. are subject to the same regulations governing manufacturing and ingredients under the Infant Formula Act of 1980, as amended ("Infant Formula Act"). Store brands, which offer substantial savings to consumers, must meet the same FDA requirements as the national brands. Substantially all products are developed using ingredients and formulas comparable to those of national brand products. In most instances, packaging is designed to increase visibility of store brand products and to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products in order to communicate store brand value to the consumer.



Nutritionals Business



The Company is dedicated to being the leader in developing and marketing new store brand products and has a research and development staff that management believes is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. This staff also responds to changes in national brand products by reformulating existing Company products. As part of its strategy, the Company relies on both internal development and strategic product development agreements with outside sources.



The Company seeks to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high quality, value priced products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories and support in managing and building the customer’s store brand business. The Company also seeks to establish customer loyalty by providing marketing support that is directed at developing customized marketing programs for the customers’ store brand products. The primary objective of this store brand management approach is to enable customers to increase sales of their own store brand products by communicating store brand quality and value to the consumer. The Company’s sales and marketing personnel assist customers in the development and introduction of new store brand products, new packaging and the promotion of customers’ ongoing store brand products by performing consumer research, providing market information and establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs.



The Nutritionals segment currently markets over900store brand products, with nearly3,400SKUs, to nearly150customers. The Company considers every different combination of size, flavor, formulation (e.g., milk-based, soy-based, etc.), strength and form (e.g., tablet, liquid, softgel, powder, etc.) of a given item as a separate "product".



Listed below are major Nutritional product categories under which the Company markets products for store brand labels, the annual retail market size for retailers in the U.S. (according to SymphonyIRI Group) and the names of certain national brands against which the Company’s products compete.



Product CategoriesRetailMarket Size(Billions)Comparable National BrandsDietary Supplements$6.3Centrum®, Flintstones®, One-A-Day®, Caltrate®, Pedialyte®, Osteo Bi-Flex®Infant Formulas$4.0(1)Similac®, Enfamil®, Gerber Good Start®, Earth’s Best®Baby & Toddler Foods$1.5Gerber®, Beechnut®, Earth’s Best®



(1)Includes Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for the Women, Infants and Children ("WIC") market.



The Company’s U.S.-based customers are major national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including Walmart, CVS, Walgreens, Kroger, Target, Sam’s Club and Costco, as well as major wholesalers, including McKesson.














The Nutritionals segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers and uses industry brokers for some retailers. Field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service, are assigned to specific customers in order to understand and work most effectively with the customer. They assist customers in developing in-store marketing programs for consumers and optimize communication of customers’ needs to the rest of the Company.



The Nutritionals segment’s primary marketing efforts are channeled through its customers, the retailers and wholesalers, and reach the consumer through its customers’ in-store marketing programs and other customer- specific vehicles. These programs are intended to increase visibility of store brand products and to invite comparisons to national brand products in order to communicate store brand value to the consumer. Merchandising vehicles such as floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs and promotional packs are incorporated into customers’ programs. Other traditional consumer marketing vehicles such as print advertising, direct mail and on-line communications are also employed to a limited extent. Because the retailer profit margin for store brand products is generally higher than for national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions. In addition to in-store marketing programs, the Nutritionals segment markets directly to consumers and healthcare professionalsby sponsoring www.healthychildren.org, a website administered by the American Academy of Pediatrics.



Recent Developments



During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company entered the Adult Nutrition category by entering into an exclusive supply agreement with KanPak LLC, a division of Golden State Foods, to manufacture store brand adult nutritional drinks comparable to Ensure® products.



New Product Introductions



Net sales related to new products in Nutritionals were$22.5 millionfor fiscal2014,$18.6 millionfor fiscal2013and$69.8 millionfor fiscal2012.The largest new product offering during fiscal2014was Insync® probiotic, which is being marketed as a branded product.  During fiscal 2013, the Company introduced new plastic containers for its infant formula products, which while not technically a new formulation, was treated by customers and consumers as a new product line.  Fiscal2012new product sales related primarily to the transition to the next generation of infant formulas within the product portfolio.  A Nutritionals product is considered new if it was added to the Company’s product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured.



Competition



The market for infant formula and nutritional products is highly competitive. Competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality and assortment of products, customer service, marketing support and availability of and approvals for new products. The Company believes it competes favorably in these areas.



The Company’s competition in store brand products consists of several publicly traded and privately owned companies, including brand-name pharmaceutical companies. Some of the Company’s competitors for infant formula are Abbott Laboratories, Mead Johnson Nutrition Co., Nestle S.A. (Gerber) and Danone Baby Nutrition. Most of the national brand companies have financial resources substantially greater than those of the Company. National brand companies could in the future manufacture more store brand products or lower prices of their national brand products. The Company competes in the VMS category with a number of publicly-traded and privately-owned companies, such as Bayer AG, Pfizer, Inc., NBTY and Rexall Sundown, Inc. and IVC, Inc., some of which have broader product lines and larger nutrition category sales volumes than those of the Company.





PRESCRIPTION PHARMACEUTICALS



The Rx Pharmaceuticals segment develops, manufactures and markets a portfolio of generic prescription ("Rx") drugs primarily for the U.S. market.  The Company defines this portfolio as predominantly "extended topical" and "specialty" as it encompasses a broad array of topical dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, solutions and powders.  The portfolio also includes select controlled substances, injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms and oral liquid formulations.












Rx Business



The Company develops, manufactures and markets primarily generic "extended topical" and other specialty prescription pharmaceuticals. Topical and specialty products are manufactured at the Company’s New York, Minnesota, Israel and U.K. facilities and are also sourced from various FDA-approved third parties. The Company also manufactures certain other generic products, namely oral solids and oral liquids at its Michigan and Leeds, U.K. facilities. The Company’s current development areas include other delivery systems such as nasal sprays, oral liquids, metered dose inhalers, injectables and transdermal products, some of which are developed with third parties. Other areas of expertise include the production capabilities for controlled substance and hormonal products. Pharmaceuticals are manufactured, labeled and packaged in facilities that comply with strict regulatory standards and meet customers’ stringent requirements.



In addition, the Rx Pharmaceuticals segment offers OTC products through the prescription channel (referred to as "ORx®" that are marketed using the Perrigo name). ORx® products are OTC products that are available for pharmacy fulfillment and healthcare reimbursement when prescribed by a physician. The Company offers over 100 ORx® products that are reimbursable through many health plans and U.S. Medicaid and Medicare programs.



The Rx Pharmaceuticals segment currently markets approximately800generic prescription and ORx® products, with almost1,300SKUs, to approximately350customers. A SKU for a generic prescription product is a unique combination of the product’s package size, ingredient strength and dosage form (e.g., tablet, syrup, cream, foam, ointment, gel, etc.). The Company generally holds the ANDA or product application for the drugs that it manufactures or enters into an arrangement with the application holder for the manufacture and/or marketing of certain products.



Listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic and ORx® products, that the Company manufactures and/or distributes:

Generic NameCompetitive Brand-Name DrugAdapalene creamDifferin®Bacitracin ophthalmic ointmentN/ACetirizine tablets and syrupZyrtec®Clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide gelDuac®Clobetasol foam, lotion and shampooOlux®, Olux-E®, Clobex®Desonide cream, ointmentDesonate®, Tridesilon®Halobetasol ointment and creamUltravate®Loratadine tabletsClaritin®Liothyronine sodium tabletsCytomel®Mupirocin ointmentBactroban®Nystatin topical powderMycostatin®Permethrin creamElimite®Polyethylene glycol 3350MiraLAX®Testosterone cypionate injectionDepo® - TestoteroneTriamcinolone acetonide nasal sprayNasacort® AQ



The Company’s U.S.-based customers are major wholesalers, including Cardinal Health, McKesson and AmerisourceBergen, as well as national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, including Walgreens, Walmart, CVS, Rite Aid, Kroger and Safeway. Generic prescription drugs are sold to the consumer through the pharmacy counter of predominantly the same retail outlets as OTC pharmaceuticals and nutritional products.



Recent Developments



On February 18, 2014, the Company acquired a distribution and license agreement for the marketing and sale of methazolomide from Fera Pharmaceuticals, LLC ("Fera"), a privately-held specialty pharmaceutical company, for a cash payment of $17.3 million.  The acquisition of this agreement further expanded the Company's ophthalmic offerings.












New Product Introductions and Drug Application Approvals



During fiscal2014, the Company launched several new generic or authorized generic prescription products including Fluticasone propionate lotion, Nitroglycerine spray, Repaglinide, Fenofibrate, Fluocinonide cream, Calcipotreine betamethasone dipropionate, and Desloratadine, which contain the same active ingredients present in the same dosage forms as Cutivate®, Nitrolingual®, Prandin®, Tricor®, Vanos®, Taclonex®, and Clarinex®, respectively.  Net sales related to new products were approximately$106.4 millionfor fiscal2014,$48.6 millionfor fiscal2013and$35.1 millionfor fiscal2012.  An Rx Pharmaceuticals product is considered new if it was added to the Company’s product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured.



In fiscal2014, the Company, on its own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from the FDA for10prescription drug applications.  As ofJune 28, 2014, the Company, on its own or in collaboration with partners, had33generic Rx drug applications pending approval with the FDA.



Collaboration Agreements



The Company actively collaborates with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture and market certain products or groups of products. These types of agreements are not uncommon in the pharmaceutical industry. The Company may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage its or others’ scientific research and development expertise or utilize its extensive marketing and distribution resources. SeeNote 1of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the Company’s method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well asNote 15of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the Company’s current collaboration agreements.



Competition



The market for generic prescription drugs is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching their own generic version of a branded product (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. Among the Company’s competitors are Actavis, Apotex, Glenmark Generics Inc., Impax, Mylan, Prasco, Sandoz, Taro Pharmaceuticals, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Triax Pharmaceuticals, and Zydus Pharmaceuticals, as well as brand-name pharmaceutical companies where the Company offers a generic equivalent.



The Company believes that one of its primary competitive advantages is its ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture topical and other specialty generic equivalents to brand-name drug products. Generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the relatively longer and more expensive development, clinical trial and approval processes. In addition, the Company believes it has a favorable competitive position due primarily to its efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service and overall reputation.



Price competition from additional generic versions of the same product, as well as potential price competition from the original branded or authorized generic products, may result in a significant and/or rapid decline in sales and profit margins. In addition, competitors may develop their products more rapidly or complete the regulatory approval process sooner and market their products earlier than the Company. New drugs and future developments in improved and/or advanced drug delivery technologies or other therapeutic techniques may provide therapeutic or cost advantages to competing products.



Many brand-name competitors try to prevent, discourage or delay the use of generic equivalents through various measures, including introduction of new branded products, legislative initiatives, changing dosage forms or dosing regimens just prior to introduction of a generic equivalent, regulatory processes, filing new patents or patent extensions, lawsuits, citizens’ petitions and negative publicity. In addition, brand-name companies sometimes launch, either through an affiliate or licensing arrangements with another company, an authorized generic at or near the time the first generic product is launched, depriving the generic product market exclusivity intended by the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("Hatch-Waxman"). For more information see Information Applicable to All Reported Segments – Government Regulation – U.S. Food and Drug Administration.












Many of the Company’s customers, which include chain drug stores, wholesalers, distributors, hospital systems and group purchasing organizations, continue to merge or consolidate. In addition, a number of its customers have instituted sourcing programs limiting the number of suppliers of generic pharmaceutical products carried by that customer. As a result of these developments, heightened competition exists among generic drug producers for business from this smaller and more selective customer base.





ACTIVE PHARMACEUTICAL INGREDIENTS



The Company develops, manufactures and markets API used worldwide by the generic drug industry and branded pharmaceutical companies. Certain of these ingredients are used in its own pharmaceutical products. The manufacturing of these API occurs primarily in Israel. This segment is undergoing a strategic platform transformation, moving certain production from Israel to the acquired API manufacturing facility in India to allow for lower cost production and to create space for other, more complex production in Israel.



API Business



The API business is based on the manufacture and supply of API to pharmaceutical companies for use in their production of pharmaceutical products.  Moreover, it identifies API that will be critical to its pharmaceutical customers’ future product launches and then works closely with these customers on the development processes.



API development is focused on the synthesis of less common molecules for the U.S., European and other international markets. The Company is also focusing development activities on the synthesis of molecules for use in its own OTC and Rx pipeline products. This vertical integration may enable the Company to be more competitive on pricing of its other product lines. The Company believes it has a competitive advantage in its ability to produce difficult-to-develop or difficult-to-manufacture products through its understanding of regulatory issues, patents, and chemistry. Because of the complexity involved with these products and the inherently long development and regulatory timelines, the lead time to market a product can be long. The Company’s ability to continue to develop and market new products that have commercial potential is key to driving profitability in the API business.



The API business sells to customers who face similar regulatory oversight as the Company’s Rx Pharmaceuticals business in the U.S. and other regulated markets. As a result, the API business is dependent on these customers’ ability to obtain proper product approvals and maintain regulatory compliance with the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA"), as well as several U.S. state and local agencies and non-U.S. agencies in localities in which the Company’s products are sold.



Because the Company’s API customers depend on high quality supply and regulatory support, the Company focuses on rigorous quality assurance, quality control and regulatory compliance as part of its strategic positioning. The Company’s quality system is designed to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA, the European Medicines Agency and other regulatory agencies such as the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration. The Company is regularly inspected by various regulatory authorities and customers.



The Company places a high priority on responding to client needs and requirements from project initiation through final production. It offers support throughout the development stage, preparation of Drug Master Files ("DMF") and assistance throughout the approval process. The API segment is supported by sales offices in the U.S. and Israel and sales agents in various other countries.












The Company currently manufactures and markets to generic and branded pharmaceutical companies worldwide the following API products:

Ammonium lactateMidazolam maleateAnastrozoleModafinilCetirizine dihydrochlorideMometasone furoate anhydrousCilostazolMometasone furoate monohydrateCisatracurium besylateMontelukast sodiumDonepezil hydrochlorideMoxonidineEsomeprazole mg dihydrateOmeprazole magnesiumFenofibratePalonosetron hydrochlorideFlumazenilPentoxifyllineFluticasone propionatePramipexole baseGranisetron basePramipexole dihydrochloride monohydrateGranisetron hydrochlorideRocuronium bromideHalobetasol propionateRotigotineIbuprofenTemozolomideImatinib mesylateTerbinafine hydrochlorideImiquimodTiconazoleLetrozoleTiotropium bromideLevocetirizine dihydrochlorideTramadol hydrochloride



Recent Developments



To further improve the long-term cost position of its API business, on August 6, 2009, the Company acquired an 85% stake in Vedants Drug & Fine Chemicals Private Limited ("Vedants"), an API manufacturing facility in India, for $11.5 million in cash.  The Company purchased the remaining 15% stake in Vedants during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 for $7.2 million in cash.  The facility is located approximately 30 miles outside of Mumbai and is designated to manufacture various current and future mid- to high-volume API products, as well as expand the Company’s vertical integration of OTC, Rx, and future candidate Rx-to-OTC switch products. Manufacturing of API at the facility commenced during fiscal 2014 and commercial shipments are expected to begin in fiscal 2015.  In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company consolidated its research center in Tel-Aviv into the Neot Hovav production site and the site in India to reduce its future operating costs.



The Company is in the process of transitioning its long-term strategy for its API business from primarily third-party to a dual focus on third-party business, including products to be manufactured in India, and vertical integration of high value and more difficult-to-manufacture inputs to the Consumer Healthcare and Rx businesses in an effort to gain efficiencies and lower costs, thus increasing margins.  With a limited pipeline of products in development for future third-party new product introductions, the API segment revenues will likely decrease in the future, while intercompany vertical integration revenues (which will be eliminated in consolidation) will increase.  The Company plans to continue to opportunistically seek and execute upon niche, complex, and differentiated new product APIs for its overall portfolio, continue commercial production in the Company's new API site in India, and strive to develop unique collaborations and profit sharing agreements between the Company's API business and pharmaceutical companies globally.



New Product Introductions



Net sales related to new products were$39.6 millionfor fiscal2014and$7.1 millionfor fiscal2012.  There werenonew API product launches during fiscal2013.  Fiscal2014new product sales related primarily to sales to the U.S. market oftemozolomide, the generic equivalent of Temodar®.  An API product is considered new if it was added to the Company’s product lines or sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured.










Competition



The API segment operates in a highly competitive, price sensitive market in which the Company’s customers continue to consolidate and/or vertically integrate, thereby creating a smaller customer base. Since other manufacturers of API typically do not offer all of the same product lines or serve all of the same markets as the Company’s API segment, the segment competes on a product-by-product basis with a number of different competitors. The Company’s API business is subject to increased price competition from other manufacturers of API located mostly in India, China and Europe. This competition may result in the loss of API clients and/or decreased profitability in this business segment. However, the Company believes that its regulatory position, market reputation, client relationships and ability to manufacture difficult-to-develop API provide it with a competitive position.





SPECIALTY SCIENCES



As discussed above, as a result of the Elan acquisition on December 18, 2013, the Company expanded its operating segments to include the Specialty Sciences segment, which is comprised primarily of assets focused on the treatment of Multiple Sclerosis (Tysabri®).



The Company is entitled to royalty payments from Biogen Idec Inc. ("Biogen") based on its Tysabri® revenues in all indications and geographies. The royalty was12%for the 12 month period ended May 1, 2014. Subsequent to May 1, 2014, the Company is entitled to18%royalty payments on annual sales up to$2.0 billionand25%royalty payments on annual sales above$2.0 billion.  The asset's value is$5.8 billion, which is being amortized over its useful life of20years.



The Company is also entitled to royalty payments based on Prialt revenues.  Prialt (ziconotide) is a non-narcotic intrathecal analgesic. The royalty rates range from 7% to 17.5% based on specific levels of annual U.S. sales. The preliminary value of the intangible asset is$11.0 million, which is being amortized over its useful life of10years.  A variety of other marketable equity securities and equity method investments were included in the acquisition.



Recent Developments



During the third quarter of fiscal 2014, the Company entered into a series of agreements with former collaboration partner Transition Therapeutics Inc. ("Transition") to progress the clinical development of ELND005 (Scyllo-inositol) in a number of important indications, including Alzheimer's disease, Bipolar Disorder and Down Syndrome.  As part of the agreement, Transition acquired all of the shares of a wholly owned, indirect Irish subsidiary of the Company, and is now solely responsible for all ongoing development activities and costs associated with ELND005.  The Company made a $15.0 million investment in return for 2,255,640 common shares of Transition and will be eligible to receive royalties and milestone payments should ELND005 be commercialized. The milestone payments range from$10.0 millionto$15.0 millionbased on ELND005 approval as well as specific worldwide net sales hurdles. If commercialization were to occur, the Company would be entitled to receive a royalty of6.5%of net sales for the life of the product.



Competition



Tysabri® competes primarily with Avonex, marketed by Biogen Idec; Betaseron®, marketed by Berlex (an affiliate of Bayer Schering Pharma AG) in the U.S. and sold under the name Betaferon® by Bayer Schering Pharma in Europe; Rebif®, marketed by Merck Serono and Pfizer in the U.S. and by Merck Serono in Europe; Copaxone® marketed by Teva Neurosciences, Inc. in the U.S. and Europe; Novartis AG’s Gilenya™, an oral treatment for relapsing MS; and Tecfidera®, an oral agent marketed by Biogen Idec globally.  Many companies are working to develop new therapies or alternative formulations of products for MS that, if successfully developed, would compete with Tysabri®.



A drug may be subject to competition from alternative therapies during the period of patent protection or regulatory exclusivity and, thereafter, it may be subject to further competition from generic products or biosimilars. Governmental and other pressures toward the dispensing of generic products or biosimilars may rapidly and significantly reduce, slow or reverse the growth in sales and profitability of any product not protected by patents or regulatory exclusivity, and may adversely affect our future results and financial condition.  However, the competition










may be limited in its product development as Tysabri® is administered under a FDA approved Risk and Evaluation Mitigation Strategy (REMS).





OTHER



The Company has an Other category comprised of Israel Pharmaceutical and Diagnostic Products, which does not meet the quantitative threshold required to be a separately reportable segment. The Israel Pharmaceutical business includes the marketing and manufacturing of branded and generic prescription drugs under long-term exclusive licenses and the importation and distribution of pharmaceutical and other medical products into Israel based on exclusive agreements with the manufacturers. The Israel Diagnostics business is a leading player in the medical and clinical laboratory market in Israel, supplying instrumentation, reagents and consumables to customers under multi-year agreements.



Competition



The Company’s Other category operates in competitive markets. These markets are based primarily in Israel, but the Company is also subject to competition in those markets from large multi-national companies looking to expand their position in the local Israeli market. In most instances, these companies are significantly larger than the Company on a global basis with greater financial resources and product lines. The Company also has several significant product supply agreements with outside vendors. As a result, the Company’s competitive position is largely dependent on its ability to maintain these agreements. The Company believes that its competitive advantages consist of its deep knowledge of the local markets, relevant infrastructure, customer relationships and strong local brand recognition.





INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO ALL REPORTABLE SEGMENTS



Research and Development



Research and development are key components of the Company’s business strategy and, while managed centrally on a global basis, are performed in various locations in the U.S. and abroad. Development for both the Consumer Healthcare and Nutritionals markets focuses on products comparable or better in formulation, quality and effectiveness to existing national brand OTC products, nutritional supplement products, infant formulas and Rx-to-OTC switch products. The Company's animal health products focus on both generic and branded product development. Development of generic prescription drugs, primarily for the U.S. market, focuses on complex formulations, many of which require costly clinical endpoint trials. Development of generic products for the U.K. market focuses on oral liquid formulations for the branded Rx products for which liquid formulations are not available. Development of API for the global market also focuses on complex products with high barriers to entry. While the Company conducts a significant amount of its own research and development, it also enters into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products.



Research and development spending was$152.5 millionfor fiscal2014,$115.2 millionfor fiscal2013and$105.8 millionfor fiscal2012.  In addition, due to changes in the projected development and regulatory timelines for various projects, the Company wrote off$6.0 millionof IPR&D acquired as part of the Paddock and Rosemont acquisitions and$9.0 millionacquired with the Paddock acquisition during fiscal2014and2013, respectively.



Fiscal2014included incremental research and development expenses due to the Sergeant's, Velcera, and Aspen acquisitions, as well as research and development expenses related to the ELND005 Phase 2 clinical program in collaboration with Transition.  The Company ended its collaboration with Transition during the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and is no longer responsible for ongoing development activities and costs associated with ELND005.  SeeNote 5of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  Fiscal2013included incremental research and development expenses attributable to the acquisitions of Sergeant's, Rosemont, and Velcera.  Fiscal2012included incremental research and development expenses attributable to the Paddock acquisition. While the Company conducts a significant amount of its own research and development, it also enters into strategic alliance agreements to obtain the rights to manufacture and/or distribute new products.



The Company anticipates that research and development expenditures will increase above fiscal2014levels in dollar terms but remain relatively flat as a percentage of net sales in the foreseeable future as the Company continues to cultivate its presence in the RX/OTC switch and generic pharmaceutical marketsand to develop its internal research and development capabilities.












Trademarks and Patents



The Company owns certain trademarks and patents; however, its business as a whole is not materially dependent upon its ownership of any one trademark or patent or group of trademarks or patents.



Significant Customers



The Company believes its primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current marketplace of the retail drug industry. Walmart accounted for19%of consolidated net sales for fiscal2014,19%for fiscal2013, and20%for fiscal2012. Should Walmart’s current relationship with the Company change adversely, the resulting loss of business would have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated operating results and financial position. The Company does not anticipate such a change in the foreseeable future. In addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of total net sales, the Company does have other significant customers. Currently the Company generally has good relationships with all of its customers.



Manufacturing and Distribution



The Company’s primary manufacturing facilities are located in the U.S. and Israel (see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Conditions in Israel for further information). The Company also has secondary manufacturing facilities located in the U.K., Mexico, Australia and India, along with a joint venture located in China. The Company supplements its production capabilities with the purchase of some product from outside sources. During fiscal2014, the approximate average capacity utilization was60 - 65%for the Company's worldwide facilities. The capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times due to various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of the cough/cold/flu, allergy or flea and tick seasons and new product launches. The Company may utilize available capacity by contract manufacturing for other companies.



The Company has logistics facilities located in the U.S., Israel, the U.K., Mexico and Australia. Both contract freight and common carriers are used to deliver products.



Seasonality



Revenues in the Company’s Consumer Healthcare segment are generally subject to the seasonal demands for cough/cold/flu products in its second and third fiscal quarters and allergy products in its first and fourth fiscal quarters. Historically, the Company’s sales of these products have varied from year to year based in large part on the severity and length of the cough/cold/flu season. While the Company believes that the severity and length of these seasons will continue to impact its sales of cough/cold/flu/oral electrolytes and allergy products, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future sales of these products will necessarily follow historical patterns. In addition, the Company's animal health products are subject to the seasonal demand for flea and tick products, which typically peaks during the warmer weather months. Revenues for the Nutritionals, Rx Pharmaceuticals and API segments, as well as the Other category, are generally not impacted significantly by seasonal conditions.



Materials Sourcing



Affordable high quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of the Company’s business units due to the nature of the products it manufactures. Raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. Supplies of certain raw materials, bulk tablets and components are limited, or are available from one or only a few suppliers. While the Company has the ability to manufacture and supply certain API materials for the Consumer Healthcare segment, certain components and finished goods are purchased rather than manufactured because of temporary production limitations, FDA restrictions or economic and other factors. Historically, the Company has been able to react to situations that require alternate sourcing. Should alternate sourcing be required, FDA requirements placed on products approved through the ANDA or NDA process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. The Company has good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of its suppliers and has historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to its volume of purchases.












Environmental



The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations. The Company believes that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations will not be material to the business of the Company. The Company does not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding.



In March and June of 2007, lawsuits were filed by three separate groups against both the State of Israel and the Council of Neot Hovav in connection with waste disposal and pollution from several companies, including the Company, that have operations in the Neot Hovav region of Israel.  These lawsuits were subsequently consolidated into a single proceeding in the District Court of Beer-Sheva.  The Council of Neot Hovav, in June 2008, and the State of Israel, in November 2008, asserted third-party claims against several companies, including the Company.  The pleadings allege a variety of personal injuries arising out of the alleged environmental pollution.  Neither the plaintiffs nor the third-party claimants were required to specify a maximum amount of damages, but the pleadings allege damages in excess of $72.5 million, subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the Israeli shekel and the U.S. dollar.  On January 9, 2013, the District Court of Beer-Sheva ruled in favor of the Company.  On February 20, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an appeal to the Supreme Court, which has scheduled a hearing on this matter on September 29, 2014.  While the Company intends to vigorously defend against these claims, the Company cannot reasonably predict at this time the outcome or the liability, if any, associated with these claims.



Corporate Social Responsibility



The Company is committed to doing business in an ethical manner. The Company has a long history of environmentally sound and efficient operations, safe and healthy working conditions, and active participation in the communities where the Company is located.



The Company's Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment Statement highlights seven areas at the heart of its efforts:



•Helping consumers access safe, effective and affordable healthcare products;

•Complying with regulatory and legal requirements;

•Demonstrating environmental stewardship;

•Continuously improving packaging sustainability;

•Protecting human rights of its global employees and challenging its partners to do the same;

•Providing a safe and healthy work environment for its employees; and

•Establishing effective community partnerships.



Through these efforts, the Company strives to minimize its impact on the environment, drive responsible business practices and ensure the welfare of its employees now and into the future.



Government Regulation



The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising and sale of the Company’s products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the DEA, the USDA, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC"), as well as several foreign, state and local regulatory agencies in localities in which the Company’s products are sold. In addition, the Company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with standards set by organizations, such as the United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc. ("USP"), NSF International ("NSF"), and the International Organization for Standardization ("ISO"). The Company believes that its policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations.



U.S. Food and Drug Administration



The FDA has jurisdiction over the Company’s ANDA, NDA and OTC monograph drug products,  infant formulas, dietary supplements, food products and medical devices. The FDA’s jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage and distribution of these products.



OTC and U.S. Generic Prescription Pharmaceuticals- Many of the Company’s OTC pharmaceutical products are regulated under the OTC monograph system and subject to certain FDA regulations. OTC monographs have been established through the FDA’sOTC Reviewutilizing the notice-and-comment rulemaking














Under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (the Hatch-Waxman Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act), a company submitting an NDA can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for an Rx product or an Rx to OTC switch product if the company performs a clinical study that is essential to FDA approval. Longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs, and drugs under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act. While the exclusivity period is in force, the FDA cannot approve any ANDAs for a similar or equivalent generic product. Where three years of exclusivity is granted to the innovator company, the Company will be unable to market the product during this period unless the Company establishes a relationship with the company having exclusive marketing rights. There can be no assurance that, in the event the Company applies for FDA approvals, the Company will obtain the approvals to market Rx, Rx to OTC switch products or OTC ANDA products or, alternatively, that the Company will be able to obtain these products from other manufacturers.



Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FFDCA"), a manufacturer may obtain an additional six months (which, under certain circumstances, may be extended to one year) of exclusivity if the innovator conducts pediatric studies requested by the FDA on the product. This exclusivity will, in certain instances, delay FDA approval and the sales by the Company of certain ANDA and other products.



If the Company is first to file its ANDA and meets certain requirements relating to the patents owned or licensed by the brand company, the Company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for that product. When a company submits an ANDA, the company is required to include a patent certification to certain patents that are identified with the innovator product. If the ANDA applicant challenges the validity of the innovator’s patent or certifies that its product does not infringe the patent, thereby seeking to market its product prior to the patent expiry, the product innovator may sue for infringement. The legal action would not ordinarily result in material damages but could prevent the Company from introducing the product if it is not successful in the legal action. The Company would, however, incur the cost of defending the legal action and that action could have the effect of triggering a statutorily mandated delay in FDA approval of the ANDA for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge. In addition, if generic exclusivity is granted to the Company, there










can be no assurance that the Company will be able to market the product at the beginning of the exclusivity period or that the exclusivity will not be shared with other generic companies, including authorized generics. It is possible that more than one applicant files the first ANDA on the same day and exclusivity is shared. This may happen by chance, but more likely when there is a certain type of innovator exclusivity that prevents the filing of all ANDAs until a specific date. As a result of events that are outside of the Company’s control, the Company may forfeit its exclusivity. Finally, if the Company is not first to file its ANDA, the FDA may grant 180-day exclusivity to another company, thereby effectively delaying the launch of the Company’s product.



The Company’s prescription drug products that are marketed without approved applications must meet certain manufacturing and labeling standards established by the FDA. The FDA’s policy with respect to the continued marketing of unapproved products is stated in the FDA’s September 2011 compliance policy guide, titled "Marketed New Drugs without Approved NDAs or ANDAs." Under this policy, the FDA has stated that it will follow a risk-based approach with regard to enforcement against such unapproved products. The FDA evaluates whether to initiate enforcement action on a case-by-case basis, but gives higher priority to enforcement action against products in certain categories, such as those marketed as unapproved drugs with potential safety risks and that lack evidence of effectiveness. The FDA recognizes that certain unapproved products, based on the introduction date of their active ingredients and the lack of safety concerns, among other things, have been marketed for many years and, at this time, might not be subject to immediate enforcement action. See further information related to regulation by the FDA in Item 1A. Risk Factors.



All facilities where Rx and OTC drugs are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with FDA cGMPs and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries where the facilities are located. All of the Company’s drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that the Company’s facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representations made to store brand customers or to regulatory action against the Company related to the products made in that facility, including suspension of or delay in ANDA approvals, seizure, injunction or recall. Serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against the Company that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of the Company’s products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or operating results. In addition, several bills have been introduced in Congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of Rx and OTC drugs. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the Company’s activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on the Company’s business.



The Company submits a Drug Master File ("DMF") for active pharmaceutical ingredients to be commercialized in the U.S. The DMF filings provide an efficient mechanism for FDA review while protecting the Company’s proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. The manufacturing facilities are inspected by the FDA to assess cGMP compliance. The manufacturing facilities and production procedures utilized must be cGMP compliant before API may be exported to the U.S. For European markets, the Company submits a European DMF and, where applicable, obtains a certificate of suitability from the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines. The manufacturing facilities and production procedures for API marketed in Europe must meet EU-GMP and European Pharmacopeia standards.



Infant Formula- The FDA’s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. The Office of Nutrition, Labeling and Dietary Supplements ("ONLDS") has program responsibility for infant formula, while the Office of Food Additive Safety ("OFAS") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. The ONLDS evaluates whether the infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the FFDCA and consults with the OFAS regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula.



All manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. The specific requirements for infant formula are governed by the Infant Formula Act. The purpose of the Infant Formula Act is to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum, and in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients.



Once an infant formula product is formulated, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation before marketing the infant formula. The FDA has established requirements for certain labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control procedures (to










assure the nutrient content of infant formulas), as well as for company records and reports. A manufacturer must notify the FDA 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. The FDA recently issued a final rule regarding good manufacturing practices, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records, for the production of infant formulas. The Company actively monitored this process and is making appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance.



In addition, as part of its responsibility to implement the provisions of the FFDCA, the FDA continuously monitors infant formula products. The FFDCA requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life, to keep records on production, testing and distribution of each batch of infant formula and to use current good manufacturing practices and quality control procedures. In addition, the FFDCA requires infant formula manufacturers to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which are reviewed to reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. The FDA conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula. The FDA also inspects new facilities during early production runs. As part of the inspection, the FDA collects and analyzes samples of infant formula.



Dietary Supplements- The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 ("DSHEA") amended the FFDCA to, among other things: (1) define dietary supplements and dietary ingredients, (2) require ingredient and nutrition labeling for dietary supplements, (3) permit "structure/function" statements for dietary supplements, (4) permit the display of certain published literature where supplements are sold, (5) authorize the FDA to establish GMPs specifically for dietary supplements, and (6) require the submission of New Dietary Ingredient notification to the FDA.



The DSHEA provides specific nutrition labeling requirements for dietary supplements that are slightly different than those for conventional foods. All supplements must bear a "Supplement Facts" box, which lists all of the supplement’s dietary ingredients using nomenclature as specified by FDA regulation. DSHEA also permits dietary supplements to bear statements (1) claiming a benefit related to a classical nutrient deficiency disease, provided the prevalence of the disease in the U.S. is disclosed, (2) describing the role of a nutrient or dietary ingredient intended to affect the structure or function in humans, (3) characterizing the documented mechanism by which a nutrient or dietary ingredient acts to maintain such structure or function, and (4) describing general well-being from consumption of a nutrient or dietary ingredient. The Company is subject to regulations published by the FDA clarifying the types of "structure function" statements permissible in dietary supplement labeling. Such statements cannot expressly or implicitly state that a dietary supplement has any effect on a "disease."  As with foods in general, dietary supplement labeling may include a "health claim," which characterizes the role of a nutrient to a disease or health-related condition.



On June25, 2007, the FDA issued Final GMPRegulations specific to Dietary Supplements, which became effective as they relate to the Company on June25, 2008.TheCompany continues to invest in its Dietary Supplement operations to ensure compliance with the regulations. The Company continuously monitors FDA activities, including publicly available inspection reports of other companies'inspections, to ensure that its operations and quality systems are maintained in a state of compliance based on the current interpretation of the regulations. The Company has not yet been inspected and cannot determine with certainty what effects the FDA's future interpretations of the regulations will have on its business. The GMP regulations and FDA's future interpretations of these regulations could, among other things, require expanded documentation of the manufacturing processes for certain products or additional analytical testing for certain ingredients. In addition, several bills have been introduced in Congress that could, if enacted, affect the manufacture and marketing of dietary supplements. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation regulating the Company's activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on the Company's business.



The DSHEA requires that the FDA be notified at least 75 days in advance of the introduction of a dietary supplement that contains a dietary ingredient that was introduced to market after October 15, 1994 or was present in the food supply in a form where the food had not been chemically altered. The notification must provide information establishing that the dietary supplement containing the dietary ingredient will reasonably be expected to be safe.



Food Safety Modernization Act- Portions of the Nutritionals segment's business are subject to the Food Safety Modernization Act ("FSMA"), which became law in 2011. The stated purpose of the FSMA is to ensure U.S. foods are safe by shifting the focus from containment of contamination to prevention. The law mandates










comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. It also gives the FDA mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers. The FSMA impacts food and food ingredient imports through a supplier verification program. Under the FSMA, the FDA is also taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of an outbreak. The FDA has yet to issue a complete set of regulations under the FSMA. Additional clarity is expected once the regulations are finalized.



U.S. Department of Agriculture



The Organic Foods Production Act enacted under Title 21 of the 1990 Farm Bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic". The Company's infant formula manufacturing sites in Vermont and Ohio adhere to the standards of the USDA National Organic Program for the production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. The Company's infant formula manufacturing sites in Vermont and Ohio are USDA-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for U.S. and Canadian markets.



U.S. Environmental Protection Agency



Pet Care Products- The EPA is responsible for the regulation of companion animal flea and tick products that are applied and act topically. The active ingredients in flea and tick products are pesticides that are regulated under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.  Pesticides cannot be distributed or sold in the U.S. unless they are registered with the EPA.



The EPA may grant a pesticide registration to an applicant after making a determination that the use of the pesticide product will meet the statutory requirement that it will not cause "unreasonable adverse effects on the environment", i.e., the product will not present an unreasonable risk. An applicant must demonstrate that a pesticide product meets the safety and efficacy standards required by EPA by submitting an extensive battery of toxicology and efficacy studies, or by providing reference to pre-existing data for the evaluation of possible risks to both humans and the animals that may be exposed to the pesticide product. The EPA will not approve a product if there is any reason to doubt that the product can be used safely and efficaciously.



When the EPA issues a registration for a pesticide product, the EPA approves the precise formula for the product and the language in the product labeling. It is a violation of U.S. law for a company to distribute or sell a pesticide product that deviates from the formulation composition and label language approved by the EPA. The EPA and state regulators conduct cooperative compliance programs to monitor pesticide products and if necessary, take appropriate enforcement actions.



In addition to the registration process, the EPA conducts a registration review program that periodically re-evaluates pesticides that the EPA has approved. New studies may be required, additional safety and use restrictions may be mandated, and, if the EPA decides that a product no longer meets the required safety and efficacy standards, the EPA can cancel the product registration.



Companies that hold pesticide product registrations must report any adverse events that may result from the use of the products. The EPA reviews these reports and may take action to modify or withdraw a registration if the EPA decides that such action is necessary to ensure that the pesticide products meet the stringent safety and efficacy standards mandated by law.



U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration



The DEA regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, and List I chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal Controlled Substances Act ("CSA"). The CSA and DEA regulations impose specific requirements on manufacturers and other entities that handle these substances including registration, recordkeeping, reporting, storage, security and distribution. Recordkeeping requirements include accounting for the amount of product received, manufactured, stored and distributed, as well as yield losses. Companies handling either controlled substances or List I chemicals are also required to maintain adequate security and to report suspicious orders, thefts and significant losses. The DEA periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to comply with current and future regulations of the DEA could lead to a variety of sanctions, including revocation or denial of renewal of DEA registrations, injunctions, or civil or criminal penalties.












The Company is subject to the requirements of the CSA and DEA regulations in the handling of any controlled substances in schedules II – V or any of the List I chemicals. Specifically, the Company is subject to regulation in the commercial manufacture and distribution of products containing the List I drug pseudoephedrine and products containing the schedule II drugs morphine, hydromorphone and opium. As a result of a series of amendments to the CSA, the DEA has imposed increased restrictions on the manufacture and distribution of pseudoephedrine products. For example, the Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996 was enacted to authorize the DEA to monitor transactions involving chemicals that may be used illegally in the production of methamphetamine. The Comprehensive Methamphetamine Control Act of 1996 establishes certain registration and recordkeeping requirements for manufacturers of OTC cold, allergy, asthma and diet medicines that contain ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine ("PPA"). While certain of the Company’s OTC drug products contain pseudoephedrine, which is a common ingredient in nasal decongestant products, the Company’s U.S. products contain neither ephedrine nor PPA.



In addition, the Reauthorization Act of 2005, signed into law on March 9, 2006, prevented the existing provisions of the Patriot Act from expiring and also included the Combat Methamphetamine Epidemic Act. This law further amended the CSA and provided additional requirements with respect to the manufacture, distribution and sale of pseudoephedrine products. Among the various provisions, this national legislation places certain restrictions on the purchase and sale of all products that contain ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or PPA (List I chemical products). The CSA also imposed import and procurement quotas for List I chemicals, including pseudoephedrine.



The CSA, as amended, also imposed daily restrictions on the amount of List I chemical products a retailer may sell to a consumer (3.6 grams per day) and limitations on the amount of List I chemical products a consumer may purchase (9.0 grams) over a 30-day period. Further, effective September 30, 2006, the CSA requires that (a) retail sellers maintain a logbook that tracks the sales of List I chemical products to individuals, and (b) purchasers provide valid identification in order to purchase List I chemical products. Many states have also enacted legislation regulating the manufacture and distribution of pseudoephedrine products. The Company is subject to these state requirements as well.



Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Other Drug Pricing Programs



U.S. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of having federal funds being made available to the states for the manufacturer’s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B, must enter into a rebate agreement with the U.S. government to pay rebates to state Medicaid programs for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program. A U.S. federal government agency, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS"), is responsible for administering the Medicaid rebate agreements between the U.S. government and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Rebates are due on the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations, as well as under fee-for-service arrangements.



Drug manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate agreements, which are between each manufacturer and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, provide that the drug manufacturer will remit rebates to each state Medicaid agency on a quarterly basis. Those rebates are based on pricing data reported by manufacturers to CMS, including Average Manufacturer Price ("AMP"), which is reported on a monthly and quarterly basis, and, in the case of innovator products, best price, which is reported on a quarterly basis. Health reform legislation changed the definition of AMP effective the fourth quarter of calendar 2010. Pursuant to the same legislation, effective for rebate periods beginning with the first quarter of calendar 2010, the rebate formulas used to determine the minimum rebate amounts due are as follows: for noninnovator products, in general generic drugs marketed under ANDAs, the rebate amount is 13% of the AMP for the quarter; for innovator products, in general brand-name products marketed under NDAs, the rebate amount is the greater of 23.1% of the AMP for the quarter or the difference between such AMP and the Best Price for that same quarter. Manufacturers also pay an additional rebate on innovator drugs where price increases since launch have outpaced inflation.



The Company has a Medicaid rebate agreement in effect with the U.S. government. U.S. Federal and/or state governments have and are expected to continue to enact measures aimed at reducing the cost of drugs to such governmental payers as well as the public, including the enactment in December 2003 of Medicare legislation that expanded the scope of Medicare coverage to include outpatient drugs (Part D), starting in January 2006, as well as health reform legislation enacted in 2010. Management cannot predict the nature of such measures or their impact on the Company’s profitability. Various states have in recent years also adopted supplemental drug rebate programs that are intended to provide the individual states with additional manufacturer rebates on Medicaid










utilization over and above those required under a manufacturer’s U.S. federal Medicaid agreement. States also have created drug coverage and corresponding manufacturer rebate programs for non-Medicaid populations, known as state pharmaceutical assistance programs. These rebate programs are generally designed to mimic the U.S. federal drug rebate program in terms of how the manufacturer rebates are calculated. Although there are a number of supplemental and state pharmacy assistance rebate programs, for the Company they are insignificant in the aggregate compared to quarterly Medicaid drug rebate obligations.



As described herein, CMS rules require pharmaceutical companies to calculate and report the AMP to CMS on a monthly as well as a quarterly basis. In addition to using this information to calculate rebates, CMS is preparing to use AMP to calculate a type of U.S. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multiple source drugs to pharmacies under the Medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ("FUL"). Prior to using AMP, CMS typically used pricing data from third-party compendia, such as the Average Wholesaler Price ("AWP") or Wholesaler Acquisition Cost ("WAC"), in the calculation of FULs. Health reform legislation enacted in 2010 amended the statutory definition of AMP and also amended the definition of "multiple source drug" in a manner that materially affects the calculation of FULs.



CMS has begun posting draft AMP-based FUL reimbursement files on the CMS website that are calculated based on the requirements of the health reform legislation. Currently, the FUL reimbursement files are for review and comment only; however, CMS has announced that it plans to publish final FULs after a period of releasing them in draft format. CMS issued a proposed rule in February 2012 that provided guidance on the revised AMP definition and calculation of FULs but has not issued a final rule.  Separately, under existing statutory authority granted by the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, CMS has begun collecting retail survey price information from retail community pharmacies to generate publicly available pricing files. CMS expects that the pricing files will provide state Medicaid agencies with an array of covered outpatient drug prices and that state agencies can use this information to compare their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates to those derived from the surveys.



CMS has begun posting drafts of this retail survey price information on at least a monthly basis in the form of draft National Average Drug Acquisition Cost ("NADAC") files, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, and National Average Retail Price ("NARP") files, which reflect retail community pharmacy prices to consumers. In July 2013, CMS suspended the publication of draft NARP data, pending funding decisions.  In November 2013, CMS moved to publishing final rather than draft NADAC data and has since made updated NADAC data publicly available on a weekly basis. The Company does not know how the new methodologies for calculating AMP and FULs or the retail survey price information will affect the Company's pharmacy customers or to what extent these customers will seek to pass on any decrease in Medicaid reimbursements to the Company. The Company cannot predict how the sharing of FUL data and retail survey prices may impact competition in the marketplace.



Manufacturers also must participate in the 340B drug pricing program for U.S. federal funds to be available to pay for their drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Participating manufacturers must agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B ceiling price for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. Sales made by the Company pursuant to the 340B program are not material to the Company as a whole.



U.S. law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program report average sales price, or ASP, information to CMS for certain categories of drugs that are paid under Part B of the Medicare program.  Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutorily defined formula and implementing regulations as to what should or should not be considered in computing ASP.  An ASP for each National Drug Code for a product that is subject to the ASP reporting requirement must be submitted to CMS no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter.  CMS uses these submissions to determine payment rates for drugs under Medicare Part B.  Statutory or regulatory changes or CMS binding guidance could affect the ASP calculations for the Company’s products and the resulting Medicare payment rate, and could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations.



Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by the Company, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. The Medicaid rebate amount is computed each quarter based on the Company’s submission to CMS of the Company’s current average manufacturer prices and best prices for the quarter.  If the Company becomes aware that its reporting for prior quarters was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, the Company is obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations increase the Company’s costs for complying with the










laws and regulations governing the Medicaid rebate program. Any corrections to the Company’s rebate calculations could result in an overage or underage in the Company’s rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction.



If the Company is found to have knowingly submitted false average manufacturer price, average sales price, or best price information to the government, the Company may be liable for civil monetary penalties in the amount of $100,000 per item of false information.  If the Company is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of its average sales price, the Medicare statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied.  The Company’s failure to submit monthly/quarterly average manufacturer price, average sales price, and best price data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date.  Such failure also could be grounds for CMS to terminate the Company’s Medicaid drug rebate agreement, pursuant to which the Company participates in the Medicaid program.  In the event that CMS terminates the Company’s rebate agreement, U.S. federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for the Company’s covered outpatient drugs.



U.S. law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs, as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, it also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Federal Supply Schedule ("FSS") pricing program. To participate, the Company is required to enter into an FSS contract with the VA, under which the Company must make its "covered drugs" (i.e., innovators) available to the U.S. "Big Four" federal agencies - the VA, the Department of Defense, or DoD, the Public Health Service, and the Coast Guard - at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, or VHCA. The FCP is based on a weighted average wholesaler price known as the "non-federal average manufacturer price," or Non-FAMP, which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. If a company misstates Non-FAMPs or FCPs it must restate these figures. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to penalties of $100,000 for each item of false information.



FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed "tracking customer." Further, in addition to the "Big Four" agencies, all other U.S. federal agencies and some U.S. non-federal entities are authorized to access FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the Big Four agencies "negotiated pricing" for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor’s commercial "most favored customer" pricing. The Company offers one single FCP-based FSS contract price to all FSS purchasers.



In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD TRICARE Management Activity, or TMA (now the Defense Health Agency (DHA)), to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, the Company has entered into a Section 703 Agreement under which the Company has agreed to pay rebates on covered drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies. Companies are required to list their innovator products on Section 703 Agreements in order for those products to be eligible for DoD formulary inclusion. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and the Company’s Section 703 Agreement and is based on the difference between the Annual Non-FAMP and the FCP (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA).



If the Company overcharges the government in connection with its FSS contract or Section 703 Agreement, whether due to a misstated FCP or otherwise, the Company is required to refund the difference to the government. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify contract overcharges can result in allegations against the Company under the Federal False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects.












Other Regulatory





The U.S. Physician Payment Sunshine Act, being implemented as the Open Payments Program, requires certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payments database, and public reporting of the payment data. Pharmaceutical manufacturers with products for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program are required to track and report such payments.  CMS issued a final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act provisions and clarified the scope of the reporting obligations, as well as that applicable manufacturers must begin tracking on August 1, 2013 and report payment data to CMS by July 7, 2014 and annually thereafter.The Company has met the reporting requirements.



The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and other similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties, or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage.  Recently, there has been a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  A determination that our operations or activities are not, or were not, in compliance with laws or regulations could result in the imposition of substantial fines, interruptions of business, loss of supplier, vendor or other third-party relationships, termination of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal or equitable sanctions. Other internal or government investigations or legal or regulatory proceedings, including lawsuits brought by private litigants, may also follow as a consequence.



Violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to the Company, may result in significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, like Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of the Company’s operations.



Consumer Product Safety Commission



Under the U.S. Poison Prevention Packaging Act ("PPPA"), the CPSC has authority to require that certain dietary supplements and certain pharmaceuticals have child-resistant packaging to help reduce the incidence of accidental poisonings. The CPSC has published regulations requiring iron-containing dietary supplements and various pharmaceuticals to have child resistant packaging, and has established rules for testing the effectiveness of child-resistant packaging and for ensuring senior adult effectiveness.



The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 ("CPSIA") amended the Consumer Product Safety Act ("CPSA") to require that the manufacturer of any product that is subject to any CPSC rule, ban, standard or regulation certify that based on a reasonable testing program the product complies with CPSC requirements. This certification applies to pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements that require child-resistant packaging under the PPPA. The CPSC lifted the stay of enforcement of the certification requirement and the regulation has been in effect since February 9, 2010.












Federal Trade Commission



The FTC exercises primary jurisdiction over the advertising and other promotional practices of marketers of dietary supplements and OTC pharmaceuticals and often works with the FDA regarding these practices. The FTC considers whether a product’s claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. The FTC is also responsible for reviewing mergers between and acquisitions of pharmaceutical companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigating certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry. The FTC could challenge these business practices in administrative or judicial proceedings. For example, in accordance with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, agreements between NDA and ANDA holders relating to settlements of patent litigation involving Paragraph IV certifications under the Hatch-Waxman Act, as well as agreements between generic applicants that have submitted ANDAs containing Paragraph IV certifications where the agreement concerns either company’s 180-day exclusivity, must be submitted to the FTC (and the United States Department of Justice) for review.



U.S. State Regulation



Most U.S. states regulate and require approval of a license to manufacture and distribute foods, drugs and pet care products under laws that generally parallel federal statutes. License requirements and fees vary by state. The Company is also subject to other state consumer health and safety regulations that could have a potential impact on the Company’s business if the Company is ever found to be non-compliant.



United States Pharmacopeial Convention



The USP is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. By reference, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act incorporates the USP quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product’s labeling. USP standards exist for most Rx and OTC pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. The FDA typically requires USP compliance as part of cGMP compliance.



NSF International



NSF is an independent, not-for-profit, non-governmental organization providing risk management services for public health and safety. Its services include standards development, product certification, safety audits, management systems registration and education programs. NSF is accredited by the American National Standards Institute ("ANSI"), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Standards Council of Canada. These accreditations attest to the competency of services provided by NSF and compliance with established national and international standards for third-party certification.



The NSF Dietary Supplement Certification Program enables manufacturers to become independently registered by NSF as conforming to voluntary standards that provide a system of processes, procedures and documentation to assure the product produced has the strength, composition, quality and purity represented on the product label. The Company also has over 50 store brand products certified under NSF/ANSI Standard 173 for dietary supplement products.



International Organization for Standardization



ISO is an internationally recognized standard setting body.The Company's infant formula manufacturing sites are ISO 9001-2008 Certified for Quality Management Systems. ISO inspections are conducted at least annually. This ISO Standard specifies requirements for a Quality Management System that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement.



Non-U.S. Regulation



The Company, through its affiliates located in the U.K., manufactures, packages and distributes OTC and prescription pharmaceuticals and provides contract manufacturing and packaging services for major pharmaceutical and healthcare companies in the U.K. and for export to markets outside the U.K. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising and sale of these products are subject to regulation by one or more U.K. agencies, including the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the Department of










Health, the Department of the Environment, Her Majesty’s Customs and Excise, the Department of Trade and Industry, the Health and Safety Executive and the Department of Transport.



The Company manufactures, packages and distributes Rx pharmaceutical, OTC pharmaceutical and nutritional products in Mexico. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, advertising and sale of these products are subject to regulation by one or more Mexican agencies, including the Health Ministry, the Commercial and Industrial Secretariat, the Federal Work’s Secretariat, the Environmental Natural Resources and Fishing Secretariat, the Federal Environmental Protection Ministry, and the Treasury and Public Credit Secretariat and its Customs Government department.



The Company manufacturers, packages and distributes hospital supplies and Rx pharmaceutical, OTC pharmaceutical and nutritional products in Australia. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, advertising and sales of these products are subject to regulation by one or more Australian agencies, including the Therapeutic Goods Administration ("TGA").



The Company manufactures and markets certain of its products in accordance with standards set by organizations such as the European Directorate of Quality Medicine ("EDQM"). The Company believes that its policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations.



The Company exports OTC pharmaceutical and nutritional products, including infant formula, to foreign countries. Exporting requirements are regulated by the FDA and, where appropriate, DEA laws, as well as each individual country’s requirements for importation of such products. Each country requires approval of these products through a registration process by that country’s regulatory agencies. Registration requirements include the process, formula, packaging, testing, labeling, advertising and marketing of the products. Each country regulates what is required and may be represented to the public on labeling and promotional material. Approval for the sale of the Company’s products by foreign regulatory agencies may be subject to delays.



The Company manufactures, packages and distributes infant formula products in the U.S., which are exported to customers in China. These products are subject to regulation by multiple Chinese regulatory agencies. The regulations applicable to infant formula and imported infant formulas are evolving, and further regulatory revisions are expected to be implemented in the future.  In April 2014, the Certification and Accreditation Administration of the People’s Republic of China (CNCA) conducted an assessment on registration of infant formula dairy producers in the U.S.  As a result of this assessment the Company’s Vermont infant formula manufacturing site has been approved by CNCA to export infant formula to China.





The Company develops and manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients in Israel and India for export to the U.S. and other global markets. The facilities and products are subject to regulation by the applicable regulatory bodies in the place of manufacture as well as the regulatory agency in which the product is exported. The Company's Israeli facility has been approved by the FDA, Israel Ministry of Health ("IMOH"), Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices ("BfArM") of Germany, Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risks ("COFEPRIS") of Mexico, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency ("PMDA") of Japan, and the Korean Food and Drug Administration ("KFDA") and has received GMP certification from each agency. The Company's India facility has been inspected by the FDA and has received GMP certification.














Employees

As ofJune 28, 2014, the Company had approximately10,220full-time and temporary employees worldwide, located as follows:

CountryTotal Number ofEmployeesNumber of Employees Covered byCollective Bargaining AgreementsU.S.6,500290Israel1,300550Mexico1,200700U.K.800—Rest of the world420—





