10-K


a09-1837_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009.

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from           
to

Commission file number 1-303

THE
KROGER CO.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code

(513) 762-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock $1 par
  value

New York Stock
  Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of
the Act:

NONE

(Title of class)

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§299.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of  “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”
and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large
  accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
  filer

o

Non-accelerated
  filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

o

Smaller
  reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the Common Stock of The Kroger Co. held by
non-affiliates as of August 16, 2008: 
$19.6 billion.  There were 652,340,070
shares of Common Stock ($1 par value) outstanding as of March 27, 2009.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions
of proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act
on or before June 1, 2009, incorporated by reference into Part III of
Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS.

The Kroger Co. was founded in 1883 and
incorporated in 1902. As of January 31, 2009, the Company was one of the
largest retailers in the United States based on annual sales. The Company also
manufactures and processes some of the food for sale in its supermarkets. The
Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street,
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and its telephone number is (513) 762-4000. The Company
maintains a web site (www.kroger.com) that includes additional information
about the Company. The Company makes available through its web site, free of
charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
and its current reports on Form 8-K, including amendments thereto. These
forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has
filed with, or furnished them electronically to, the SEC.

The Company’s revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer
products are sold to customers in its stores. The Company earns income
predominantly by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in
excess of its costs to make these products available to its customers. Such
costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and
operational costs, and overhead expenses.

E

MPLOYEES

As of January 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 326,000
full and part-time employees. A majority of the Company’s employees are covered
by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated
with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 309
such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years.

During fiscal 2009, the Company has major labor contracts to be
negotiated covering store employees in Albuquerque, Arizona, Atlanta, Dallas,
Dayton, Denver and Portland. 
Negotiations in 2009 will be challenging as the Company must have
competitive cost structures in each market while meeting our associates’ needs
for good wages, affordable health care and increases in Company pension
contributions due to the recent downturns in the equity markets.

S

TORES

As of January 31, 2009, the Company operated, either directly or
through its subsidiaries, 2,481 supermarkets and multi-department stores, 781
of which had fuel centers.  Approximately 43% of these supermarkets were
operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on
leased land.  The Company’s current strategy emphasizes self-development
and ownership of store real estate.  The Company’s stores operate under
several banners that have strong local ties and brand equity. 
Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats:
combination food and drug stores (“combo stores”); multi-department stores;
marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses.

The combo stores are the primary food store format.  They are
typically able to earn a return above the Company’s cost of capital by drawing
customers from a 2 – 2½ mile radius.  The Company believes this format is
successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty
departments that customers desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food
and organic sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and
high-quality perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce.  Many
combo stores include a fuel center.

Multi-department stores are significantly larger in size than combo
stores.  In addition to the departments offered at a typical combo store,
multi-department stores sell a wide selection of general merchandise items such
as apparel, home fashion and furnishings, electronics, automotive products,
toys and fine jewelry.  Many multi-department stores include a fuel
center.

Marketplace stores are smaller in size than multi-department
stores.  They offer full-service grocery
and pharmacy departments as well as an expanded general merchandise area that
includes outdoor living products, electronics, home goods and toys.  Many marketplace stores include a fuel
center.

Price impact warehouse stores offer a “no-frills,
low cost” warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for
a wide selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat,
dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items provide a competitive advantage. The
average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo
store.


In addition to the supermarkets, as of January 31,
2009, the Company operated through subsidiaries, 684 convenience stores and 385
fine jewelry stores.  All of our fine
jewelry stores located in malls are operated in leased locations.  In
addition, 87 convenience stores were operated through franchise agreements.
Approximately 50% of the convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were
operated in Company-owned facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited
assortment of staple food items and general merchandise and, in most cases,
sell gasoline.

S

EGMENTS

The Company operates retail food and drug
stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores
throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail operations, which
represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated sales, earnings and
total assets, are its only reportable segment.  All of the Company’s
operations are domestic. Revenues, profit and losses, and total assets are
shown in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8
below.

M

ERCHANDISING AND

M

ANUFACTURING

Corporate brand
products play an important role in the Company’s merchandising strategy. 
Supermarket divisions typically stock approximately 14,000 private label
items.  The Company’s corporate brand products are produced and sold in
three “tiers.” Private Selection is the premium quality brand designed to be a
unique item in a category or to meet or beat the “gourmet” or “upscale”
brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger, Ralphs, King Soopers, etc.), which
represents the majority of the Company’s private label items, is designed to
satisfy our customers’ families with quality products.  Before Kroger will carry a banner brand
product, the product quality must meet our customers’ expectations in taste and
efficacy, and we guarantee it.  Kroger
Value is the value brand, designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable
price.

Approximately 40% of
the corporate brand units sold are produced in the Company’s manufacturing
plants; the remaining corporate brand items are produced to the Company’s
strict specifications by outside manufacturers. The Company performs a “make or
buy” analysis on corporate brand products and decisions are based upon a
comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market purchases. As of January 31,
2009, the Company operated 40 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of
18 dairies, 10 deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, three
beverage plants, two meat plants and two cheese plants.

E

XECUTIVE

O

FFICERS OF THE

R

EGISTRANT

The disclosure regarding executive officers is
set forth in Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive
Officers of the Company,” and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS.

There are risks and uncertainties that can
affect our business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below. 
Please also see the “Outlook” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for
forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our
goals or meet our expectations.

C

OMPETITIVE

E

NVIRONMENT

The operating environment for the food retailing
industry continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive
supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of
non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  We have developed a strategic plan that we
believe is a balanced approach that will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging
needs and expectations of our customers in this challenging economic
environment.  However, the nature and extent to which our competitors
implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing
competition - including our execution of our strategic plan - and our response
to these competitive actions, can adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability and growth could also be
adversely affected by changes in the overall economic environment that impact
consumer spending, including discretionary spending.

F

OOD

S

AFETY

Customers count on Kroger to provide them with
wholesome food products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food products
could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek
alternative sources of supply for all of their food needs, even if the basis
for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the
part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any
issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by Kroger, regardless of the
cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our operations.

L

ABOR

R

ELATIONS

A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any
work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

We are a party to approximately 309 collective
bargaining agreements.  We have major
contracts to be negotiated in 2009 covering store employees in Albuquerque,
Arizona, Atlanta, Dallas, Dayton, Denver and Portland.  In negotiations, we expect that rising health
care and pension costs, among other issues, will continue to be important
topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining
agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are
unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions.  A strike could
significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to control
health care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility under our
collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs
and an adverse impact on future results of operations.

S

TRATEGY

E

XECUTION

Our strategy focuses on improving our
customers’ shopping experience through improved service, product selection and
price.  Successful execution of this
strategy requires a balance between sales growth and earnings growth. 
Maintaining this strategy requires the ability to identify and execute plans to
generate cost savings and productivity improvements that can be invested in the
merchandising and pricing initiatives necessary to support our customer-focused
programs, as well as recognizing and implementing organizational changes as
required.  If we are unable to execute our plans, or if our plans
fail to meet our customers’ expectations, our sales and earnings growth
expectations could be adversely affected.

DATA AND TECHNOLOGY

Our business is increasingly dependent on
information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing
operations.  If we were to experience
difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could
incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.  Additionally, these systems contain valuable
proprietary data that, if breached, would have an adverse effect on Kroger.


I

NDEBTEDNESS

As of year-end 2008, Kroger’s outstanding
indebtedness, including capital leases and financing obligations, totaled
approximately $8.1 billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to
obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes
and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive
pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing
debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the
interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs
and structure.

L

EGAL

P

ROCEEDINGS

From time to time, we are a party to legal
proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues,
personal injury, antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Some of these
proceedings, including product liability cases, could result in a substantial
loss to Kroger in the event that other potentially responsible parties are
unable (for financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered
against them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  While we currently do not expect any outstanding legal
proceedings to have a material effect on the financial condition of Kroger,
unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations
or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal Proceedings”
section in Item 3 below.

M

ULTI

-E

MPLOYER

P

ENSION

O

BLIGATIONS

As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting
Policies-

Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

,”
Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations
arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing
employees covered by those agreements.  The funding status of most of
those pension funds has deteriorated, and it is probable that the Company’s
contributions to those funds will increase significantly over the next several
years.  Despite the fact that the pension
obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the
Company, there is a risk that the agencies that rate Kroger’s outstanding debt
instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when
determining their ratings on our debt securities.  Any downgrading of
Kroger’s debt ratings likely would increase Kroger’s cost of borrowing.

I

NSURANCE

We use a combination of insurance and
self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation,
automobile and general liability, property, director and officers’ liability,
and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is
subject to a high degree of variability.  Changes in legal trends and
interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and
method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable
laws, insolvency or insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all
affect ultimate settlements of claims.

C

URRENT

E

CONOMIC

C

ONDITIONS

The global economy and financial markets have
declined and experienced volatility due to uncertainties related to energy
prices, availability of credit, difficulties in the banking and financial
services sectors, the decline in the housing market, diminished market
liquidity, falling consumer confidence and rising unemployment rates.  As a result, consumers are more cautious.  This could lead to reduced consumer spending,
to consumers switching to a less expensive mix of products, or to consumers
trading down to discounters for grocery items, all of which could affect our
sales growth.  We are unable to predict
when the global economy and financial markets will improve.  If the global economy and financial markets
do not improve, our results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS.

None.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

As of January 31, 2009, the Company operated more than 3,600 owned
or leased supermarkets, convenience stores, fine jewelry stores, distribution
warehouses and food processing facilities through divisions, subsidiaries or
affiliates. These facilities are located throughout the United States. A
majority of the properties used to conduct the Company’s business are leased.

The Company generally owns store equipment,
fixtures and leasehold improvements, as well as processing and manufacturing
equipment. The total cost of the Company’s owned assets and capitalized leases
at January 31, 2009, was $23.9 billion while the accumulated depreciation
was $10.7 billion.

Leased premises generally have base terms ranging from ten-to-twenty
years with renewal options for additional periods. Some options provide the
right to purchase the property after conclusion of the lease term. Store
rentals are normally payable monthly at a stated amount or at a guaranteed
minimum amount plus a percentage of sales over a stated dollar volume. Rentals
for the distribution, manufacturing and miscellaneous facilities generally are
payable monthly at stated amounts.  For
additional information on lease obligations, see Note 8 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

On October 6, 2006, the Company petitioned the Tax Court (

In Re: Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries,
formerly known as Ralphs Supermarkets, Inc., Docket No. 20364-06

)
for a redetermination of deficiencies set by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.  The dispute at issue involves a
1992 transaction in which Ralphs Holding Company acquired the stock of Ralphs
Grocery Company and made an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  The Commissioner
has determined that the acquisition of the stock was not a purchase as defined
by Section 338(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and that the
acquisition does not qualify as a purchase. 
The Company believes that it has strong arguments in favor of its
position and believes it is more likely than not that its position will be
sustained.  However, due to the inherent
uncertainty involved in the litigation process, there can be no assurances that
the Tax Court will rule in favor of the Company.  As of January 31, 2009, an adverse
decision would require a cash payment of up to approximately $436 million,
including interest.

On February 2, 2004, the Attorney General for the State of
California filed an action in Los Angeles federal court (

California, ex rel Lockyer v. Safeway, Inc. dba
Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc. and Ralphs Grocery Company, a
division of The Kroger Co.

, United States District Court Central
District of California, Case No. CV04-0687) alleging that the Mutual
Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the Company, Albertson’s, Inc.
and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”), which was designed to prevent
the union from placing disproportionate pressure on one or more of the
Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the other Retailer(s) during
the labor dispute in southern California, violated Section 1 of the
Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and injunctive relief. On May 28,
2008, pursuant to a stipulation between the parties, the court entered a final
judgment in favor of the defendants.  As
a result of the stipulation and final judgment, there are no further claims to
be litigated at the trial court level. 
The Attorney General has appealed a trial court ruling to the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals and the defendants are appealing a separate
ruling.  Although this lawsuit is subject
to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process, based on the information
presently available to the Company, management does not expect that the
ultimate resolution of this action will have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Various claims and lawsuits arising in the
normal course of business, including suits charging violations of certain
antitrust, wage and hour, or civil rights laws, are pending against the
Company. Some of these suits purport or have been determined to be class
actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in
antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although it is not possible at
this time to evaluate the merits of all of these claims and lawsuits, nor their
likelihood of success, the Company is of the belief that any resulting
liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position.

The Company continually evaluates its exposure
to loss contingencies arising from pending or threatened litigation and
believes it has made adequate provisions therefor.  Nonetheless, assessing and predicting the
outcomes of these matters involve substantial uncertainties. It remains
possible that despite management’s current belief, material differences in
actual outcomes or changes in management’s evaluation or predictions could
arise that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial
condition or results of operation.


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY,
  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

(a)

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

P

RICE

R

ANGE

Main
trading market: New York Stock Exchange (Symbol KR)

Number of shareholders of record at year-end 2008:

45,939

Number of shareholders of record at March 27,
2009:

45,712

During fiscal 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a dividend
policy and paid three quarterly dividends of $0.065 per share.  During
fiscal 2007, the Company paid one quarterly dividend of $0.065 and three
quarterly dividends of $0.075.  During
fiscal 2008, the Company paid one quarterly dividend of $0.075 and three quarterly
dividends of $0.09.  On March 1,
2009, the Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.09 per share.  On March 12, 2009, the Company announced
that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.09 per
share, payable on June 1, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of
business on May 15, 2009.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH

Set forth below is a line graph comparing the
five-year cumulative total shareholder return on Kroger’s common stock, based
on the market price of the common stock and assuming reinvestment of dividends,
with the cumulative total return of companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Stock Index, a peer group composed of food and drug companies and a former
peer group.

Historically, our peer group has consisted of the major food store
companies.  In recent years there have
been significant changes in the industry, including consolidation and increased
competition from supercenters, drug chains, and discount stores.  As a result, several years ago we changed our
peer group (the “Former Peer Group”) to include companies operating
supermarkets, supercenters and warehouse clubs in the United States as well as
the major drug chains with which Kroger competes.  This year, we changed our peer group (the “Peer
Group”) once again to add Tesco plc, as it has become a significant competitor
in the U.S. market.


Kroger’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31.

*

Total assumes $100 invested on February 1,
2004, in The Kroger Co., S&P 500 Index, the Peer Group and the Former Peer
Group with reinvestment of dividends.

**

The Peer Group consists of Albertson’s, Inc.,
Costco Wholesale Corp., CVS Corp, Delhaize Group SA (ADR), Great Atlantic &
Pacific Tea Company, Inc., Koninklijke Ahold NV (ADR), Marsh Supermarkets
Inc. (Class A), Safeway, Inc., Supervalu Inc., Target Corp., Tesco
plc, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Walgreen Co., Whole Foods Market Inc. and Winn-Dixie
Stores, Inc.  Albertson’s, Inc.,
was substantially acquired by Supervalu in July 2006, and is included
through 2005.  Marsh Supermarkets was
acquired by Marsh Supermarkets Holding Corp. in September 2006, and is
included through 2005.  Winn-Dixie
emerged from bankruptcy in 2006 as a new issue and returns for the old and new
issue were calculated then weighted to determine the 2006 return.

*** The Former Peer Group consists of Albertson’s, Inc.,
Costco Wholesale Corp., CVS Corp, Delhaize Group SA (ADR), Great Atlantic &
Pacific Tea Company, Inc., Koninklijke Ahold NV (ADR), Marsh Supermarkets
Inc. (Class A), Safeway, Inc., Supervalu Inc., Target Corp., Wal-Mart
Stores Inc., Walgreen Co., Whole Foods Market Inc. and Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc.  Albertson’s, Inc., was substantially
acquired by Supervalu in July 2006, and is included through 2005.  Marsh Supermarkets was acquired by Marsh
Supermarkets Holding Corp. in September 2006, and is included through
2005.  Winn-Dixie emerged from bankruptcy
in 2006 as a new issue and returns for the old and new issue were calculated
then weighted to determine the 2006 return.

Data supplied by
Standard & Poor’s.

The foregoing
Performance Graph will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any other
filing, absent an express reference thereto.


(c)

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA.


ITEM
  7.

MANAGEMENT’S
  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

O

UR

B

USINESS

The Kroger Co. was founded in 1883 and
incorporated in 1902. It is one of the nation’s largest retailers, as measured
by revenue, operating 2,481 supermarket and multi-department stores under two
dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers,
Smith’s, Fry’s, Fry’s Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  Of these
stores, 781 have fuel centers.  We also operate 771 convenience stores and
385 fine jewelry stores.

Kroger operates 40 manufacturing plants, primarily bakeries and dairies,
which supply approximately 40% of the corporate brand units sold in our retail
outlets.

Our revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer products are
sold to customers in our stores.  We earn income predominately by selling
products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs we incur
to make these products available to our customers.  Such costs include
procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs,
and overhead expenses.  Our operations are reported as a single reportable
segment: the retail sale of merchandise to individual customers.

O

UR

2008 P

ERFORMANCE

By focusing on the
customer through our Customer 1

st

strategy, we were able to report solid results
for fiscal year 2008 in a particularly tough economy.  At the beginning of the year, we expected to
grow supermarket identical sales, excluding fuel, by 3% to 5%.  For 2008, supermarket identical sales,
excluding fuel, were 5.0%, meeting the upper end of our original guidance.

At the outset of
fiscal year 2008, Kroger’s earnings guidance was a range of $1.83 to $1.90 per
diluted share.  Our 2008 earnings was
$1.90 per diluted share or $1.92 per diluted share, excluding the effect of a
$.02 per diluted share charge for damage and disruption caused by Hurricane
Ike.  Our 2008 earnings of $1.92 per
diluted share, excluding the charge for damage and disruption caused by
Hurricane Ike, represents a growth rate of 13.6% over Kroger’s 2007 full-year
earnings of $1.69 per diluted share.  We
believe that this growth plus Kroger’s dividend yield of more than 1%, creates
a strong return for shareholders.

Our market share
also rose in 2008.  Based on our internal
data and analysis, we estimate that our market share increased approximately 61
basis points in 2008 across our 42 major markets.  We define a major market as one in which we
operate nine or more stores.  This is the
fourth consecutive year Kroger has achieved significant market share gain.  Over the past four years combined, Kroger’s
market share in our major markets has increased approximately 225 basis
points.  Market share is critical to us
because it allows us to leverage the fixed costs in our business over a wider
revenue base.  We hold the number one or
number two market share position in 39 of or our 42 major markets.  Our fundamental operating philosophy is to
maintain and increase market share.

These market share
results demonstrate to us that our long-term strategy is working.  As population growth continues in the major
markets where we operate, we intend to continue to grow Kroger’s business by
maintaining our existing strong market share and by building on additional
opportunities for sales growth.  We
estimate that approximately 45% of the share in our major markets — as much as
$100 billion — is held by competitors who do not have Kroger’s economies of
scale.  Our economies of scale allow us
to deliver increasing value to customers, which is a competitive edge,
particularly in today’s economic climate.

Kroger’s business
model is structured to produce sustainable earnings per share growth in a
variety of economic and competitive conditions, primarily through strong
identical sales growth.  We believe this
is the right approach to produce sustainable earnings growth over a long period
of time.  We recognize that continual
investment in our Customer 1

st

strategy is
necessary to drive strong, sustainable identical sales growth.  We believe that this Customer 1

st

strategy along with our financial strategies
are delivering value to customers, shareholders, bondholders, and our
associates, and so we remain committed to our plan.


R

ESULTS
OF

O

PERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes our
operating results for 2008 compared to 2007 and for 2007 compared to
2006.  Comparability is affected by certain income and expense items that
fluctuated significantly between and among the periods.

Net Earnings

Net earnings totaled $1.2 billion for 2008, compared to net earnings
totaling $1.2 billion in 2007 and $1.1 billion in 2006.  The increase in our net earnings for 2008,
compared to 2007 and 2006, resulted from strong non-fuel identical supermarket
sales growth and strong fuel results.  In
addition, 2006 net earnings included a 53

rd

week.

Earnings per diluted share totaled $1.90 or $1.92, excluding the effect
of a $.02 per diluted share charge for damage and disruption caused by Hurricane
Ike, in 2008, compared to $1.69 per diluted share in 2007 and $1.54 per diluted
share in 2006.  Earnings per diluted
share increased 13.6% in 2008, excluding the effect of a $.02 per diluted share
charge for damage and disruption caused by Hurricane Ike, compared to
2007.  Earnings per diluted share
increased 15% in 2007, compared to 2006, after adjusting for the extra week in
fiscal 2006.  Net earnings in 2006
benefited from a 53

rd

week by
an estimated $.07 per share.  Our
earnings per share growth in 2008, 2007 and 2006 resulted from increased net
earnings, strong identical sales growth and the repurchase of Kroger
stock.  During fiscal 2008, we repurchased 24 million shares of Kroger
stock for a total investment of $637 million.  During fiscal 2007, we
repurchased 53 million shares of our stock for a total investment of $1.4
billion.  During fiscal 2006, we repurchased 29 million shares of Kroger
stock for a total investment of $633 million.

Sales

Total Sales

(in millions)

(1)

Other sales primarily
relate to sales at convenience stores, including fuel, jewelry stores and sales
by our manufacturing plants to outside customers.

The growth in our
total sales in 2008 over fiscal 2007 was primarily the result of identical
supermarket sales increases, increased fuel gallon sales, and inflation across
most departments.  Identical supermarket
sales and total sales, excluding fuel, increased due to increased transaction
count and average transaction size, and inflation across all departments.  After adjusting for the extra week in fiscal
2006, total sales increased 8.2% in 2007 over fiscal 2006.

We define a
supermarket as identical when it has been in operation without expansion or
relocation for five full quarters.  Fuel
center discounts received at our fuel centers and earned based on in-store
purchases are included in all of the supermarket identical sales results
calculations illustrated below.  Differences between total supermarket
sales and identical supermarket sales primarily relate to changes in
supermarket square footage.  Annualized identical supermarket sales include
all sales at the Fred Meyer multi-department stores.  We calculate annualized identical supermarket
sales by adding together four quarters of identical supermarket sales. 
Our identical supermarket sales results are summarized in the table below,
based on the 52-week period of 2008, compared to the 52-week period of the
previous year.  The identical store count
in the table below represents the total number of identical supermarkets as of January 31,
2009 and February 2, 2008.


Identical Supermarket Sales

(in millions)

We define a supermarket as comparable when it
has been in operation for five full quarters, including expansions and
relocations.  As is the case for identical
supermarket sales, fuel center discounts received at our fuel centers and
earned based on in-store purchases are included in all of the supermarket
comparable sales results calculations illustrated below.  Annualized comparable supermarket sales include
all Fred Meyer multi-department stores.  We calculate annualized
comparable supermarket sales by adding together four quarters of comparable
sales.  Our annualized comparable supermarket sales results are summarized
in the table below, based on the 52-week period of 2008, compared to the same
52-week period of the previous year.  The
comparable store count in the table below represents the total number of
comparable supermarkets as of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008.

Comparable Supermarket Sales

(in millions)

FIFO Gross Margin

We calculate
First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) Gross Margin as sales minus merchandise costs,
including advertising, warehousing and transportation, but excluding the
Last-In, First-Out (“LIFO”) charge. 
Merchandise costs exclude depreciation and rent expense. FIFO gross
margin is an important measure used by management to evaluate merchandising and
operational effectiveness.

Our FIFO gross margin rates were 23.20% in
2008, 23.65% in 2007 and 24.27% in 2006. 
Our retail fuel sales reduce our FIFO gross margin rate due to the very
low FIFO gross margin on retail fuel sales as compared to non-fuel sales.  Excluding the effect of retail fuel
operations, our FIFO gross margin rates decreased 15 basis points in 2008, 20
basis points in 2007 and 26 basis points in 2006.  The decrease in our non-fuel FIFO gross
margin rate reflects our continued reinvestment of operating cost savings into
lower prices for our customers.  In
addition, FIFO gross margin in 2008, compared to 2007, decreased due to high
inflation in product costs.

LIFO Charge

The LIFO charge was $196 million in 2008, $154 million
in 2007 and $50 million in 2006.  Like
many food retailers, we continued to experience product cost inflation in 2008
at levels that have not occurred for several years.  This increase in product cost inflation
caused the increase in the LIFO charge in 2008, compared to 2007 and 2006.  In addition, product cost inflation in 2007,
compared to 2006, caused the increase in the LIFO charge in 2007 compared to
2006.

Operating, General and
Administrative Expenses

Operating, general and administrative (“OG&A”)
expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs such as wages, health care
benefit costs and retirement plan costs, utilities and credit card fees.  Rent expense, depreciation and amortization
expense, and interest expense are not included in OG&A.


OG&A expenses, as a percent of sales, were
16.95% in 2008, 17.31% in 2007 and 17.91% in 2006.  The growth in our
retail fuel sales reduces our OG&A rate due to the very low OG&A rate
on retail fuel sales as compared to non-fuel sales.  OG&A expenses, as a percent of sales
excluding fuel, decreased 3 basis points in 2008, 33 basis points in 2007 and 9
basis points in 2006.  The decrease in
our OG&A rate in 2008, excluding the effect of retail fuel operations, was
primarily the result of increased identical supermarkets sales growth and a
settlement received from credit card processers, partially offset by the $25
million charge related to Hurricane Ike and increases in credit card fees and
health care costs.  The decrease in our
OG&A rate in 2007, excluding the effect of retail fuel operations, was
primarily the result of strong identical sales growth, increased productivity,
and progress that was made in 2007 in controlling our utility, health care and
pension costs.  These improvements were
partially offset by increases in credit card fees.  Excluding the effect of retail fuel
operations and expenses recorded for one-time legal reserves, our OG&A rate
declined 16 basis points in 2006.

Rent Expense

Rent expense was $659 million in 2008, as
compared to $644 million in 2007 and $649 million in 2006.  Rent expense,
as a percent of sales, was 0.87% in 2008, as compared to 0.92% in 2007 and
0.98% in 2006.  The decrease in rent
expense, as a percent of sales, reflects our increasing sales and our continued
emphasis on owning rather than leasing whenever possible.

Depreciation and
Amortization Expense

Depreciation expense was $1.4 billion in 2008,
$1.4 billion in 2007 and $1.3 billion in 2006. The increases in depreciation
and amortization expense were the result of capital expenditures totaling $2.2
billion in 2008, $2.1 billion in 2007 and $1.8 billion in 2006.  Depreciation and amortization expense, as a
percent of sales, was 1.90% in 2008, 1.93% in 2007 and 1.92% in 2006.  The decrease in depreciation and amortization
expense in 2008, compared to 2007, as a percent of sales, is primarily the
result of increasing sales.  The increase
in our depreciation and amortization expense in 2007, compared to 2006, as a
percent of sales, is due to an annual depreciation charge in both years with
2006 containing 53 weeks of sales due to the structure of our fiscal calendar.

Interest Expense

Net interest expense totaled $485 million in
2008, $474 million in 2007 and $488 million in 2006.  The increase in
interest expense in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily the result of an increase
in the average total debt balance for the year, partially offset by interest
income related to the mark-to-market of ineffective fair value swaps.  The decrease in interest expense in 2007,
compared to 2006, was the result of replacing borrowings with new borrowings at
a lower interest rate.  The average total
debt balance in 2007 was comparable to 2006.

Income
Taxes

Our effective income tax rate was 36.5% in
2008, 35.4% in 2007 and 36.2% in 2006.  The effective tax rates for those
years differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of
state income taxes.  In addition, the
effective tax rate for 2007 differs from the expected federal statutory rate
due to the resolution of some tax issues. 
The effective rate in 2006 includes an adjustment of some deferred tax
balances.

During the third quarter of 2007, we resolved
favorably some outstanding tax issues. 
This resulted in a 2007 tax benefit of approximately $40 million and
reduced our effective tax rate by 1.9%.

In 2006, during the reconciliation of our
deferred tax balances, and after the filing of our annual federal and state tax
returns, we identified adjustments to be made in prior years’ deferred tax
reconciliation.  We corrected these
deferred tax balances in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year
ended February 3, 2007, which resulted in a reduction of our fiscal 2006
provision for income tax expense of approximately $21 million and reduced the
rate by 1.2%.  We do not believe these
adjustments are material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year
ended February 3, 2007, or to any prior years’ Consolidated Financial
Statements.  As a result, we have not
restated any prior year amounts.


C

OMMON

S

TOCK

R

EPURCHASE

P

ROGRAM

We maintain stock
repurchase programs that comply with Securities Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1
and allow for the orderly repurchase of our common stock, from time to
time.  We made open market purchases totaling $448 million in 2008, $1.2
billion in 2007 and $374 million in 2006 under these repurchase programs. 
In addition to these repurchase programs, in December 1999 we began a
program to repurchase common stock to reduce dilution resulting from our
employee stock option plans.  This program is solely funded by proceeds
from stock option exercises, and the tax benefit from these exercises.  We
repurchased approximately $189 million in 2008, $270 million in 2007 and $259
million in 2006 under the stock option programs.

In 2008, to preserve
liquidity and financial flexibility, we reduced the amount of stock repurchased
during the year, decreasing the cash used for stock purchases in 2008, compared
to 2007.

C

APITAL

E

XPENDITURES

Capital expenditures, including changes in
construction-in-progress payables and excluding acquisitions, totaled $2.2
billion in 2008 compared to $2.1 billion in 2007 and $1.8 billion in
2006.  The increase in capital spending in 2008 compared to 2007 and 2006
was the result of increasing our focus on remodels, merchandising and
productivity projects.  The table below shows our supermarket storing
activity and our total food store square footage:

Supermarket Storing Activity

C

RITICAL

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

We have chosen
accounting policies that we believe are appropriate to report accurately and
fairly our operating results and financial position, and we apply those
accounting policies in a consistent manner.  Our significant accounting
policies are summarized in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities.  We base our estimates on historical experience and other
factors we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

We believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical
in the preparation of our financial statements because they involve the most
difficult, subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are
inherently uncertain.


Self-Insurance Costs

We primarily are self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation
and general liability claims.  The liabilities represent our best
estimate, using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods, of the ultimate
obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported for all
claims incurred through January 31, 2009.  We establish case reserves
for reported claims using case-basis evaluation of the underlying claim data
and we update as information becomes known.

For both workers’ compensation and general liability claims, we have
purchased stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure to any significant exposure
on a per claim basis.  We are insured for covered costs in excess of these
per claim limits.  We account for the liabilities for workers’
compensation claims on a present value basis utilizing a risk-adjusted discount
rate.  A 25 basis point decrease in our discount rate would increase our
liability by approximately $4 million.  General liability claims are not
discounted.

We are also similarly self-insured for property-related losses.  We
have purchased stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure to losses in excess of
$25 million on a per claim basis, except in the case of an earthquake, for
which stop-loss coverage is in excess of $50 million per claim, up to $200
million per claim in California and $300 million outside of California.

The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses
are subject to a high degree of unpredictability, which can affect the
liability recorded for such claims.  For example, variability in inflation
rates of health care costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts
realized.  Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well
as a change in the nature and method of how claims are settled can affect
ultimate costs.  Our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate
significant changes in historical trends for these variables, and any changes could
have a considerable effect on future claim costs and currently recorded
liabilities.

Impairments
of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

, we
monitor the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each
quarter based on whether certain trigger events have occurred.  These
events include current period losses combined with a history of losses or a
projection of continuing losses or a significant decrease in the market value
of an asset.  When a trigger event occurs, we perform an impairment
calculation, comparing projected undiscounted cash flows, utilizing current
cash flow information and expected growth rates related to specific stores, to
the carrying value for those stores.  If we identify impairment for
long-lived assets to be held and used, we compare the assets’ current carrying
value to the assets’ fair value.  Fair
value is determined based on market values or discounted future cash
flows.  We record impairment when the
carrying value exceeds fair market value. 
With respect to owned property and equipment held for disposal, we
adjust the value of the property and equipment to reflect recoverable values
based on our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic
conditions.  We recognize impairment for the excess of the carrying value
over the estimated fair market value, reduced by estimated direct costs of
disposal.  We recorded asset impairments
in the normal course of business totaling $26 million in 2008, $24 million in
2007 and $61 million in 2006.  We record
costs to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations as “Operating, general and administrative” expense.

The factors that most significantly affect the impairment calculation
are our estimates of future cash flows.  Our cash flow projections look
several years into the future and include assumptions on variables such as
inflation, the economy and market competition.  Application of alternative
assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing long-lived assets for impairment
at a different organizational level, could produce significantly different
results.

Goodwill

We review goodwill for impairment during the
fourth quarter of each year, and also upon the occurrence of trigger
events.  We perform reviews at the operating division level. 
Generally, fair value is determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted
projected future cash flows, and we compare fair value to the carrying value of
a division for purposes of identifying potential impairment.  We base
projected future cash flows on management’s knowledge of the current operating
environment and expectations for the future.  If we identify potential for
impairment, we measure the fair value of a division against the fair value of
its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an
implied fair value of the division’s goodwill.  We recognize goodwill
impairment for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over
the implied fair value.  If actual results differ significantly from
anticipated future results for certain reporting units, we would need to
recognize an impairment loss for any excess of the carrying value of the
division’s goodwill over the implied fair value.  Results of the goodwill impairment reviews
performed during 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.


The annual impairment review requires the
extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates.  Application
of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for
impairment at a different organizational level, could produce significantly
different results.  Similar to our policy on impairment of long-lived
assets, the cash flow projections embedded in our goodwill impairment reviews
can be affected by several items such as inflation, business valuations in the
market, the economy and market competition.

Store
Closing Costs

We provide for closed store liabilities
relating to the present value of the estimated remaining noncancellable lease
payments after the closing date, net of estimated subtenant income.  We
estimate the net lease liabilities using a discount rate to calculate the
present value of the remaining net rent payments on closed stores.  We
usually pay closed store lease liabilities over the lease terms associated with
the closed stores, which generally have remaining terms ranging from one to 20
years.  Adjustments to closed store liabilities primarily relate to
changes in subtenant income and actual exit costs differing from original
estimates.  We make adjustments for changes in estimates in the period in
which the change becomes known.  We review store closing liabilities
quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount that is not a sufficient estimate
of future costs, or that no longer is needed for its originally intended
purpose, is adjusted to earnings in the proper period.

We estimate subtenant income, future cash flows and asset recovery
values based on our experience and knowledge of the market in which the closed
store is located, our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current
economic conditions.  The ultimate cost of the disposition of the leases
and the related assets is affected by current real estate markets, inflation
rates and general economic conditions.

We reduce owned stores held for disposal to their estimated net
realizable value.  We account for costs to reduce the carrying values of
property, equipment and leasehold improvements in accordance with our policy on
impairment of long-lived assets.  We classify inventory write-downs in
connection with store closings, if any, in “Merchandise costs.”  We
expense costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores as they
are incurred.

Post-Retirement
Benefit Plans

(a) Company-sponsored
defined benefit Pension Plans

We account for our defined benefit pension
plans using the recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 99, 106
and 132(R)

(SFAS 158),
which require the recognition of the funded status of retirement plans on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.  We record,
as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), actuarial
gains or losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations that
have not yet been recognized.  We adopted
the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective February 3,
2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of our fiscal
year end.  The non-cash effect of the
adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 decreased shareowners’
equity by approximately $5 million ($3 million after-tax) and increased
long-term liabilities by approximately $5 million.  There was no effect on our results of
operations.

The determination of our obligation and
expense for Company-sponsored pension plans and other post-retirement benefits
is dependent upon our selection of assumptions used by actuaries in calculating
those amounts.  Those assumptions are described in Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and include, among others, the discount rate,
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, average life expectancy
and the rate of increases in compensation and health care costs.  Actual
results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over
future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense and
recorded obligation in future periods.  While we believe that our
assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in our actual experience
or significant changes in our assumptions, including the discount rate used and
the expected return on plan assets, may materially affect our pension and other
post-retirement obligations and our future expense.  Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements discusses the effect of a 1% change in the
assumed health care cost trend rate on other post-retirement benefit costs and
the related liability.


The objective of our discount rate assumption is to reflect the rate at
which the pension benefits could be effectively settled.  In making this
determination, we take into account the timing and amount of benefits that
would be available under the plans. Our methodology for selecting the discount
rate as of year-end 2008 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a yield
curve that provides the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for
each maturity. Benefit cash flows due in a particular year can be “settled”
theoretically by “investing” them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in the
same year. The discount rate is the single rate that produces the same present
value of cash flows. The selection of the 7.00% discount rate as of year-end
2008 represents the equivalent single rate under a broad-market AA yield curve
constructed by an outside consultant.  We
utilized a discount rate of 6.50% for year-end 2007.  The 50 basis point
increase in the discount rate decreased the projected pension benefit
obligation as of January 31, 2009, by approximately $147 million.

To determine the expected return on pension plan assets, we consider
current and forecasted plan asset allocations as well as historical and
forecasted returns on various asset categories.  For 2008 and 2007, we
assumed a pension plan investment return rate of 8.5%.  Our pension plan’s
average return was 4.1% for the 10 calendar years ended December 31, 2008,
net of all investment management fees and expenses, primarily due to the poor performance
of the financial markets in 2008.  The value of all investments in our
Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans during the calendar year ending
December 31, 2008, net of investment management fees and expenses declined
26.1%.  We believe our 8.5% pension return assumption is appropriate
because we expect that future returns will achieve the same level of
performances as the very long-term historical average annual return (for
example, the S&P 500 Index has returned 8.4% annually on a compound basis
for the 20 years ending December 31, 2008) for the various markets in
which the plan invests.  We have been
advised that during 2009, the trustees plan to increase the allocation of
non-core assets, including high yield debt securities, commodities and real
estate.  Collectively, these changes
should improve the diversification of pension plan assets.  The trustees have advised us that they expect
these changes will have little effect on the total portfolio risk but will
increase the likelihood of achieving the 8.5% expected rate of return.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on the asset allocations of pension plan
assets.

Sensitivity to changes in the major assumptions used in the calculation
of Kroger’s pension plan liabilities for the qualified plans is illustrated
below (in millions).

Percentage

Point Change

Projected Benefit

Obligation

Decrease/(Increase)

Expense

Decrease/(Increase)

Discount Rate

+/- 1.0

%

$

257/$(309

)

$

13/$(28

)

Expected Return
  on Assets

+/- 1.0

%

—

$

21/$(21

)

We contributed $20 million in 2008, $52
million in 2007 and $150 million in 2006 to our Company-sponsored defined
benefit pension plans.  Although Kroger
is not required to make cash contributions to its Company-sponsored defined
benefit pension plans during fiscal 2009, we made a $200 million cash
contribution on February 2, 2009. 
Additional contributions may be made if required under the Pension
Protection Act to avoid any benefit restrictions.  We expect any voluntary
contributions made during 2009 will reduce our minimum required contributions
in future years.  Among other things,
investment performance of plan assets, the interest rates required to be used
to calculate the pension obligations, and future changes in legislation, will
determine the amounts of any additional contributions.

Net periodic
benefit cost decreased in 2008 and 2007 compared to 2006 due to participants in
the Cash Balance formula of the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan being
moved to a defined contribution 401(k) retirement savings account plan
effective January 1, 2007. 
Participants under that formula continue to earn interest on prior
contributions but no additional pay credits will be earned.  The 401(k) retirement savings plan provides
to eligible employees both matching contributions and automatic contributions
from Kroger based on participant contributions, plan compensation, and length
of service.  We contributed and expensed
$92 million in 2008 and $90 million in 2007 to employee 401(k) retirement
savings accounts.

(b) Multi-Employer
Plans

We also contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on
obligations arising from most of our collective bargaining agreements. 
These plans provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service
to contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in
trust for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by
employers and unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for determining
the level of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for such
matters as the investment of the assets and the administration of the plans.


We recognize expense in connection with these plans as contributions are
funded, in accordance with GAAP.  We made contributions to these plans,
and recognized expense, of $219 million in 2008, $207 million in 2007, and $204
million in 2006.

Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe that
the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most or all of these
multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in
trust to pay benefits.  We have attempted to estimate the amount by which
these liabilities exceed the assets, (i.e., the amount of underfunding), as of December 31,
2008.  Because Kroger is only one of a number of employers contributing to
these plans, we also have attempted to estimate the ratio of Kroger’s
contributions to the total of all contributions to these plans in a year as a
way of assessing Kroger’s “share” of the underfunding.  Nonetheless, the
underfunding is not a direct obligation or liability of Kroger or of any
employer.  As of December 31, 2008,
we estimate that Kroger’s share of the underfunding of multi-employer plans to
which Kroger contributes was $3.0 billion, pre-tax, or $1.9 billion, after-tax.
 This represents an increase in the
amount of underfunding estimated as of December 31, 2008, compared to December
31, 2007.  The increase in the amount of
underfunding is attributable to the recent market downturn.  Our estimate is based on the best information
available to us including actuarial evaluations and other data (that include
the estimates of others), and such information may be outdated or otherwise
unreliable.  Our estimate is imprecise and not necessarily reliable.

We have made and disclosed this estimate not because this underfunding
is a direct liability of Kroger.  Rather, we believe the underfunding is
likely to have important consequences. 
In 2008, our contributions to these plans increased approximately 6%
over the prior year and have grown at a compound annual rate of approximately
6% since 2004.  We do not expect a
significant increase in our contributions to multi-employer pension plans in
2009, compared to 2008, subject to collective bargaining and capital market
conditions.  We believe our contributions
to multi-employer pension plans could as much as double over the next several
years, after 2009, to reduce this underfunding.  Finally, underfunding means that, in the event
we were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions to
these funds, we could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. Any
adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a
liability exists and can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with SFAS No. 87,

Employers’ Accounting for Pensions

.

The amount of underfunding described above is an estimate and could
change based on contract negotiations, returns on the assets held in the
multi-employer plans and benefit payments. 
The amount could decline, and Kroger’s future expense would be favorably
affected, if the values of the assets held in the trust significantly increase
or if further changes occur through collective bargaining, trustee action or
favorable legislation.  On the other hand, Kroger’s share of the
underfunding could increase and Kroger’s future expense could be adversely
affected if the asset values decline, if employers currently contributing to these
funds cease participation or if changes occur through collective bargaining,
trustee action or adverse legislation.

Deferred Rent

We recognize rent holidays, including the time
period during which we have access to the property for construction of buildings
or improvements, as well as construction allowances and escalating rent
provisions on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  The
deferred amount is included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Long-Term
Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Fair
Value of Financial Instruments

In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair
Value Measurements

(SFAS 157), which defines fair value, establishes
a market-based framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 does
not expand or require any new fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets
and financial liabilities for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  FASB Staff Position (FSP) 157-2

Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement No. 157

(FSP 157-2), deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for most non-financial
assets and non-financial liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2008.  Effective February 3, 2008,
we adopted SFAS 157, except for non-financial assets and non-financial
liabilities which are deferred until February 1, 2009 by FSP 157-2.


SFAS 157
establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure
fair value.  The three levels of the fair
value hierarchy defined by SFAS 157 are as follows:

Level 1 — Quoted
prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

Level 2 — Pricing
inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1,
which are either directly or indirectly observable;

Level 3 —
Unobservable pricing inputs in which little or no market activity exists,
therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions about the assumptions
that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.

For those
financial instruments carried at fair value in the consolidated financial
statements, the following table summarizes the fair value of these instruments
at January 31, 2009:

Fair
Value Measurements Using

(in
millions)

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets

for Identical

Assets

(Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Total

Available-for-Sale
  Securities

$


$

—

$

—

$


Variable Interest
Entities

In December 2008, the FASB issued FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,

Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about
Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities

(FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8).

FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 require
additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with variable interest
entities and transfers of financial assets. 
Effective January 31, 2009, we adopted FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8.

In the first
quarter of 2008, we made an investment in The Little Clinic LLC (“TLC”).  TLC operates supermarket walk-in medical
clinics in seven states, primarily in the Midwest and Southeast.  At the date of investment, TLC was determined
to be a variable-interest entity (“VIE”) under FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(FIN 46R), with Kroger being the primary beneficiary.  We were deemed the primary beneficiary due to
our current ownership interest and half of our written put options being at a
floor price.  As a result, we
consolidated TLC in accordance with FIN 46R. 
The minority interest was recorded at fair value on the acquisition
date.  The fair value of TLC was
determined based on the amount of the investment made by Kroger and the percentage
acquired.  Our assessment of goodwill
represents the excess of this amount over the fair value of TLC’s net assets as
of the investment date.  Creditors of TLC
have no recourse to the general credit of Kroger.  Conversely, creditors of Kroger have no recourse
to the assets of TLC.  In addition, if
requested by TLC’s Board of Directors by January 1, 2010, we have agreed
to make a pro rata portion of an additional capital contribution.


The table below shows
the unaudited amounts of assets and liabilities from TLC included in our
consolidated results, after eliminating intercompany items, as of January 31,
2009 (in millions of dollars):

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we became the primary beneficiary of
i-wireless, LLC a VIE in which we have a 25% ownership interest.  We were deemed the primary beneficiary due to
our current ownership interest, $25 million line of credit guarantee, and $8
million loan to i-wireless, LLC.  We
became the primary beneficiary, in the fourth quarter of 2008, under FIN 46R after
lending $8 million to i-wireless, LLC. 
i-wireless, LLC sells prepaid phones primarily in our stores.  The minority interest was recorded at fair
value.  The fair value of i-wireless, LLC
was determined based on the amount of the investment made by Kroger in the
fourth quarter of 2007 and the percentage acquired.  Our assessment of goodwill represents the
excess of this amount over the fair value of i-wireless, LLC net assets as of
the date of the loan.  We have guaranteed
the indebtedness of i-wireless, LLC, up to $25 million, which is collateralized
by $8 million of inventory located in our stores. The creditors of Kroger have
no recourse to the assets of i-wireless, LLC.

The table below
shows the preliminary and unaudited amounts of assets and liabilities from
i-wireless, LLC included in our consolidated results, after eliminating
intercompany items, as of January 31, 2009 (in millions of dollars):

Share-Based
Compensation Expense

We account for stock options under the fair
value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

(SFAS 123(R))

.

Under this
method, we recognize compensation expense for all share-based payments granted
after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based payments granted prior
to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, in accordance with SFAS
123(R).  Under the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS 123(R), we recognize share-based compensation expense, net
of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the requisite service period of the award.  In addition, we account for restricted stock
awards under SFAS 123(R).  We record
expense for restricted stock awards in an amount equal to the fair market value
of the underlying stock on the grant date of the award, over the period the
awards lapse.


Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a LIFO
basis) or market.  In total, approximately 98% in 2008 and 97% in 2007 of
inventories were valued using the LIFO method. Cost for the balance of the
inventories was determined using the FIFO method.  Replacement cost was higher than the carrying
amount by $800 million at January 31, 2009, and by $604 million at February 2,
2008.  We follow the Link-Chain, Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of
calculating our LIFO charge or credit.

We follow the item-cost method of accounting to determine inventory cost
before the LIFO adjustment for substantially all store inventories at our
supermarket divisions.  This method involves counting each item in
inventory, assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual purchase
costs (net of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and recording
the cost of items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting allows for
more accurate reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables management
to more precisely manage inventory and purchasing levels when compared to the
methodology followed under the retail method of accounting.

We evaluate
inventory shortages throughout the year based on actual physical counts in our
facilities.  We record allowances for inventory shortages based on the
results of recent physical counts to provide for estimated shortages from the
last physical count to the financial statement date.

Vendor Allowances

We recognize all vendor allowances as a reduction
in merchandise costs when the related product is sold.  In most cases,
vendor allowances are applied to the related product by item, and therefore
reduce the carrying value of inventory by item.  When it is not
practicable to allocate vendor allowances to the product by item, we recognize
vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs based on inventory turns
and as the product is sold.  We recognized approximately $3.5 billion in
2008, $3.6 billion in 2007 and $3.3 billion in 2006 of vendor allowances as a
reduction in merchandise costs.  We recognized more than 85% of all vendor
allowances in the item cost with the remainder being based on inventory turns.


L

IQUIDITY AND

C

APITAL

R

ESOURCES

Cash Flow Information

Net cash provided by operating activities

We generated $2.9 billion of cash from operations in 2008 compared to
$2.6 billion in 2007 and $2.4 billion in 2006. 
The increase in cash generated from operating activities was primarily
due to strong operating results adjusted for non-cash expenses.  In addition, changes in our operating assets
and liabilities also affected the amount of cash provided by our operating
activities.  We realized decreases in
cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $411 million in 2008,
$164 million in 2007 and $129 million in 2006. 
The increase in the change in operating assets and liabilities in 2008,
compared to 2007, is primarily due to an increase in income taxes
receivable.  The increase in the change
in operating assets and liabilities in 2007, compared to 2006, is primarily
attributable to an increase in forward inventory buying activity.  These amounts are also net of cash
contributions to our Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans totaling
$20 million in 2008, $52 million in 2007, and $150 in 2006.

Net cash used by investing activities

Cash used by investing activities was $2.2
billion in 2008, compared to $2.2 billion in 2007 and $1.6 billion in
2006.  Our use of cash for investing activities was consistent in 2008,
compared to 2007.  The amount of cash
used by investing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, due primarily
to higher capital spending and payments for two acquisitions.  Capital expenditures, including changes in
construction-in-progress payables and excluding acquisitions, were $2.2 billion
in 2008, $2.1 billion in 2007 and $1.8 billion in 2006.  Refer to the
Capital Expenditures section for an overview of our supermarket storing
activity during the last three years.

Net cash used by financing activities

Financing activities used $769 million of cash in 2008 compared to $310
million in 2007 and $785 million in 2006.  The increase in the amount of
cash used in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily a result of payments on long
term-debt and the bank revolver, offset by decreased stock repurchases.  The decrease in the amount of cash used in
2007, compared to 2006, was primarily a result of proceeds received from the
issuance of long term-debt, offset by greater stock repurchases and dividends
paid.  We repurchased $637 million of
Kroger stock in 2008 compared to $1.4 billion in 2007 and $633 million in 2006.
We paid dividends totaling $227 million in 2008, $202 million in 2007and $140
million in 2006.

Debt Management

Total debt, including both the current and long-term portions of capital
leases and financing obligations, decreased $59 million to $8.1 billion as of
year-end 2008 from $8.1 billion as of year-end 2007.  The slight decrease
in 2008, compared to 2007, resulted from the issuance of $400 million of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 5.00%, $375 million of senior notes bearing
an interest rate of 6.90% and $600 million of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 7.50%, offset by decreased commercial paper, the payments on the bank
revolver, the repayment of $200 million of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 6.375% and $750 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of
7.45% that came due in 2008.  Total debt
increased to $8.1 billion as of year-end 2007 from $7.1 billion as of year-end
2006.  The increases in 2007, compared to 2006, resulted from the issuance
of $600 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.4%, $750 million
of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.15% and borrowings under the bank
credit facility in 2007, offset by the repayment of $200 million of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 7.65% and $300 million of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 7.80% that came due in 2007.

Our total debt balances were also affected by our prefunding of employee
benefit costs and by the mark-to-market adjustments necessary to record fair
value interest rate hedges of our fixed rate debt, pursuant to SFAS No. 133

Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging
Activities

, as amended.  We had prefunded employee benefit
costs of $300 million in each of the three years ended 2008, 2007 and
2006.  The mark-to-market adjustments increased the carrying value of our
debt by $45 million in 2008 and $44 million in 2007.


Factors Affecting
Liquidity

We currently borrow on a daily basis approximately $250 million under
our F2/P2/A3 rated commercial paper (“CP”) program.  These borrowings are
backed by our credit facility, and reduce the amount we can borrow under the
credit facility.  We have capacity available under our credit facility to
backstop all CP amounts outstanding.  If our credit rating declines below
its current level of BBB/ Baa2/BBB-, the ability to borrow under our current CP
program could be adversely affected for a period of time immediately following
the reduction of our credit rating.  This could require us to borrow
additional funds under the credit facility, under which we believe we have sufficient
capacity.  However, in the event of a ratings decline, we do not
anticipate that access to the CP markets currently available to us would be
significantly limited for an extended period of time (i.e., in excess of 30
days).  Although our ability to borrow under the credit facility is not
affected by our credit rating, the interest cost on borrowings under the credit
facility could be affected by a decrease in our credit rating or a decrease in
our Applicable Percentage Ratio.

Our credit facility also requires the maintenance of a Leverage Ratio
and a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (our “financial covenants”).  A failure
to maintain our financial covenants would impair our ability to borrow under
the credit facility. These financial covenants and ratios are described below:

·

Our Applicable Percentage Ratio (the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to
Consolidated Total Interest Expense, as defined in the credit facility) was
8.59 to 1 as of January 31, 2009.  Our current borrowing rates are
determined from the better of our Applicable Percentage Ratio or our credit
ratings as defined by the credit facility.

·

Our Leverage Ratio (the ratio of Net Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as
defined in the credit facility) was 2.02 to 1 as of January 31,
2009.  If this ratio exceeded 3.50 to 1, we would be in default of our
credit facility and our ability to borrow under the facility would be impaired.

·

Our Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA plus
Consolidated Rental Expense to Consolidated Cash Interest Expense plus
Consolidated Rental Expense, as defined in the credit facility) was 4.12 to 1
as of January 31, 2009.  If this
ratio fell below 1.70 to 1, we would be in default of our credit facility and
our ability to borrow under the facility would be impaired.

Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in our credit
facility, includes an adjustment for unusual gains and losses.  Our credit
agreement is more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  We were in compliance with our financial covenants at
year-end 2008.


The tables below illustrate our significant
contractual obligations and other commercial commitments, based on year of
maturity or settlement, as of January 31, 2009 (in millions of dollars):

Our construction commitments include funds
owed to third parties for projects currently under construction.  These
amounts are reflected in other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

Our purchase obligations include commitments to be utilized in the
normal course of business, such as several contracts to purchase raw materials
utilized in our manufacturing plants and several contracts to purchase energy
to be used in our stores and manufacturing facilities.  Our obligations
also include management fees for facilities operated by third parties. 
Any upfront vendor allowances or incentives associated with outstanding
purchase commitments are recorded as either current or long-term liabilities in
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of January 31,
2009, we maintained a $2.5 billion, five-year revolving credit facility that,
unless extended, terminates in 2011. 
Outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and commercial paper
borrowings, and some outstanding letters of credit, reduce funds available
under the credit agreement.  In addition
to the credit agreement, we maintained three uncommitted money market lines
totaling $75 million in the aggregate. 
The money market lines allow us to borrow from banks at mutually agreed
upon rates, usually at rates below the rates offered under the credit
agreement.  As of January 31, 2009,
we had no borrowings under our credit agreement and net outstanding commercial
paper of $90 million, that reduced amounts available under our credit
agreement.  In addition, as of January 31,
2009, we had borrowings under our money market lines totaling $39 million.  The outstanding letters of credit that reduce
funds available under our credit agreement totaled $337 million as of January 31,
2009.


In addition to the
available credit mentioned above, as of January 31, 2009, we had
authorized for issuance $1.4 billion of securities under a shelf registration
statement filed with the SEC and effective on December 20, 2007.

We also maintain surety bonds related primarily to our self-insured
workers compensation claims.  These bonds are required by most states in
which we are self-insured for workers’ compensation and are placed with
third-party insurance providers to insure payment of our obligations in the
event we are unable to meet our claim payment obligations up to our self-insured
retention levels.  These bonds do not represent liabilities of Kroger, as
we already have reserves on our books for the claims costs.  Market changes may make the surety bonds more
costly and, in some instances, availability of these bonds may become more
limited, which could affect our costs of, or access to, such bonds. 
Although we do not believe increased costs or decreased availability would
significantly affect our ability to access these surety bonds, if this does
become an issue, we would issue letters of credit, in states where allowed,
against our credit facility to meet the state bonding requirements.  This
could increase our cost and decrease the funds available under our credit
facility.

Most of our outstanding public debt is jointly and severally, fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of our
subsidiaries.  See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
more detailed discussion of those arrangements.  In addition, we have
guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real estate entities in which we
have 50% ownership interest.  Our share of the responsibility for this
indebtedness, should the entities be unable to meet their obligations, totals
approximately $7 million.  Based on the covenants underlying this
indebtedness as of January 31, 2009, it is unlikely that we will be
responsible for repayment of these obligations. 
We have also agreed to guarantee, up to $25 million, the indebtedness of
an entity of which we have 25% ownership interest.  Our share of the responsibility, as of January 31,
2009, should the entity be unable to meet its obligations, totals approximately
$25 million and is collateralized by approximately $8 million of inventory
located in our stores.  In addition, we
have guaranteed half of the lease payments of a location leased by an entity in
which we have a 50% ownership interest. 
The net present value of the guaranteed rental payments is approximately
$6 million.

We also are contingently liable for leases that have been assigned to
various third parties in connection with facility closings and
dispositions.  We could be required to satisfy obligations under the
leases if any of the assignees are unable to fulfill their lease
obligations.  Due to the wide distribution of our assignments among third
parties, and various other remedies available to us, we believe the likelihood
that we will be required to assume a material amount of these obligations is
remote.  We have agreed to indemnify certain third-party logistics operators
for certain expenses, including pension trust fund contribution obligations and
withdrawal liabilities.

In addition to the above, we enter into various indemnification
agreements and take on indemnification obligations in the ordinary course of
business.  Such arrangements include indemnities against third party
claims arising out of agreements to provide services to Kroger; indemnities
related to the sale of our securities; indemnities of directors, officers and
employees in connection with the performance of their work; and indemnities of
individuals serving as fiduciaries on benefit plans.  While Kroger’s
aggregate indemnification obligation could result in a material liability, we
are not aware of any current matter that could result in a material liability.

R

ECENTLY

A

DOPTED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

Effective January 31, 2009, we adopted FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,

Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about
Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities

(FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8).

FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 require
additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with variable interest
entities and transfers of financial assets. 
See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of the adoption of FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8.

Effective February 3, 2008, we adopted
SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

(SFAS 157), except for non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities as
deferred until February 1, 2009 by FASB Staff Position (FSP) 157-2

Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement No. 157

(FSP 157-2).  SFAS 157 defines fair
value, establishes a market-based framework for measuring fair value and
expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 does not expand or require any new
fair value measurements.  FSP 157-2
deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for most non-financial assets and
non-financial liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2008.  See Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of SFAS 157.


Effective February 4,
2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109

(FIN No. 48), which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return.  This interpretation also
provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.  See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of the adoption of FIN No. 48.

Effective February 3, 2007, we adopted the recognition and
disclosure provisions (except for the measurement date change) of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 87,
99, 106 and 132(R)

(SFAS
158), which requires the recognition of the funded status of our
retirement plans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or losses, prior service
costs or credits and transition obligations that have not yet been recognized
are required to be recorded as a component of AOCI.  We

adopted the measurement date
provisions of SFAS 158 effective February 3, 2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of our fiscal
year end.  The non-cash effect of the
adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 decreased shareowners’
equity by approximately $5 million ($3 million after-tax) and increased
long-term liabilities by approximately $5 million.  There was no effect on our results of
operations.  See Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the adoption of
this standard.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51

(SFAS 160).  SFAS 160 will require the consolidation of
noncontrolling interests as a component of equity.  SFAS 160 will become effective for our fiscal
year beginning February 1, 2009.  We
are currently evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS 160 will have on our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),

Business Combinations

(SFAS
141R), which replaces SFAS No. 141

.

SFAS 141R further expands the
definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.

SFAS 141R will become effective for
our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  Because the standard will only impact
transactions entered into after February 1, 2009, SFAS 141R will not effect
our Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption.

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

(SFAS 161)

.

SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures of an entity’s derivative
and hedging activities.

SFAS 161 will become effective for
our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the effect the
adoption of SFAS 161 will have on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities

(FSP No. EITF
03-6-1).

FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 clarifies that share-based payment
awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before
vesting should be considered participating securities and included in the
calculation of basic EPS.

FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 will
become effective for our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the effect the
adoption of FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.


O

UTLOOK

This discussion and
analysis contains certain forward-looking statements about Kroger’s future
performance. These statements are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs
in light of the information currently available. Such statements relate to,
among other things: projected change in net earnings; identical sales growth;
expected pension plan contributions; our ability to generate operating cash
flow; projected capital expenditures; square footage growth; opportunities to
reduce costs; cash flow requirements; and our operating plan for the future;
and are indicated by words such as “comfortable,” “committed,” “will,” “expect,”
“goal,” “should,” “intend,” “target,” “believe,” “anticipate,” and similar
words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties
and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Statements elsewhere in this report and below
regarding our expectations, projections, beliefs, intentions or strategies are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we believe that the statements are
accurate, uncertainties about the general economy, our labor relations, our
ability to execute our plans on a timely basis and other uncertainties
described below could cause actual results to differ materially.


Various uncertainties and other factors could cause us
to fail to achieve our goals. These include:



Other
factors and assumptions not identified above could also cause actual results to
differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information.
Accordingly, actual events and results may vary significantly from those
included in, contemplated or implied by forward-looking statements made by us
or our representatives.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Financial Risk
Management

We use derivative financial instruments
primarily to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and, to a
lesser extent, adverse fluctuations in commodity prices and other market
risks.  We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes.  As a matter of policy, all of our derivative positions are
intended to reduce risk by hedging an underlying economic exposure. 
Because of the high correlation between the hedging instrument and the
underlying exposure, fluctuations in the value of the instruments generally are
offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the underlying exposure.  The
interest rate derivatives we use are straightforward instruments with liquid
markets.

We manage our exposure to interest rates and changes in the fair value
of our debt instruments primarily through the strategic use of variable and
fixed rate debt, and interest rate swaps.  Our current program relative to
interest rate protection contemplates hedging the exposure to changes in the
fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in interest rates. 
To do this, we use the following guidelines: (i) use average daily
outstanding borrowings to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest
rate exposure, (ii) limit the average annual amount of debt subject to
interest rate reset and the amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of
$2.5 billion or less, (iii) include no leveraged products, and (iv) hedge
without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current mark-to-market
status.

As of January 31, 2009, we did not have any outstanding interest
rate swaps designated as fair value or cash flow hedges.

In 2008, we terminated nine fair value interest rate swaps with a total
notional amount of $900 million.  Three
of these terminated interest rate swaps were purchased and became ineffective
fair value hedges in 2008.  The proceeds
received at termination were credited to interest expense in the amount of $15
million.  We have unamortized proceeds
from twelve interest rate swaps once classified as fair value hedges totaling
approximately $45 million.  The unamortized
proceeds are recorded as adjustments to the carrying values of the underlying
debt and are being amortized over the remaining term of the debt.

In addition to the interest rate swaps noted above, in 2005 we entered
into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a notional
amount totaling $750 million.  A forward-starting interest rate swap is an
agreement that effectively hedges future benchmark interest rates on debt for
an established period of time.  We entered into the forward-starting
interest rate swaps in order to lock into fixed interest rates on forecasted
issuances of debt in 2007 and 2008.  In
2007, we terminated two of these forward-starting interest rate swaps with a
notional amount of $500 million.  In
2008, we terminated the remaining forward interest rate swap with a notional
amount of $250 million.  The unamortized
payments and proceeds on these terminated forward-starting interest rate swaps
have been recorded net of tax in other comprehensive income and will be
amortized to earnings as the payments of interest to which the hedge relates
are made.  As of February 2, 2008,
other long-term liabilities totaling $18 million were recorded to reflect the
fair value of these agreements.

Annually, we review with the Financial Policy Committee of our Board of
Directors compliance with the guidelines.  The guidelines may change as
our business needs dictate.

The table below provides information about our underlying debt portfolio
as of January 31, 2009.  The amounts shown for each year represent
the contractual maturities of long-term debt, excluding capital leases as of January 31,
2009.  Interest rates reflect the weighted average rate for the
outstanding instruments.  The variable component of each variable rate
debt is based on the U.S. dollar LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of January 31,
2009.  The Fair-Value column includes the
fair-value of our debt instruments as of January 31, 2009.  Refer to
Notes 5, 6 and 7 of our Consolidated Financial Statements:


Commodity Price
Protection

We enter into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw
materials utilized in our manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in our
stores, warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. We
enter into commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those
resources in the conduct of normal business. Those commitments for which we
expect to utilize or take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in the normal
course of business qualify as normal purchases.

Some of the product we purchase is shipped in corrugated cardboard
packaging.  We sell corrugated cardboard when it is economical to do so.
As of January 31, 2009, we maintained a derivative instrument to manage
exposure to changes in corrugated cardboard prices.  This derivative has a
three-year term.  The instrument does not qualify for hedge accounting, in
accordance with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging Activities

, as
amended.  Accordingly, the change in the fair value of this instrument is
marked-to-market in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in OG&A
expenses.  As of January 31, 2009, the fair value of this instrument
was insignificant.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareowners and
Board of Directors of

The Kroger Co.

In our opinion,
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of operations, cash flows and changes in shareowners’ equity present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Kroger Co. and
its subsidiaries at January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended January 31, 2009 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of January 31, 2009, based on criteria established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company’s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on
these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in
Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the
measurement date provision of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension
and Other Postretirement Plans

, as of January 31, 2009, the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

, for financial assets and financial
liabilities as of February 3, 2008, the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes

, as of February 4, 2007 and the recognition and
disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158 as of February 3, 2007.

A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements.  Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

March 31, 2009


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Years
Ended January 31, 2009, February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years
Ended January 31, 2009, February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS’
EQUITY

Years
Ended January 31, 2009, February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007

Comprehensive
income:

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All
dollar amounts are in millions except share and per share amounts.

Certain prior-year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

1.

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

The following is a summary of the significant
accounting policies followed in preparing these financial statements.

Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and
Principles of Consolidation

The Kroger Co. (the “Company”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in
1902.  As of January 31, 2009, the Company was one of the largest
retailers in the United States based on annual sales.  The Company also
manufactures and processes food for sale by its supermarkets.  The
accompanying financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the
Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and the Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”)
in which the Company is the primary beneficiary.  Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.

Fiscal Year

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. 
The last three fiscal years consist of the 52-week period ended January 31,
2009, the 52-week period ended February 2, 2008, and the 53-week period
ended February 3, 2007.

Pervasiveness of
Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities.  Disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the
date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of
consolidated revenues and expenses during the reporting period also is
required.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and temporary
cash investments

Cash and temporary
cash investments represent store cash, escrow deposits and Euros held to settle
Euro-denominated contracts.  In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 52,

Foreign Currency Translation,

the
Company valued its carrying amount of Euros at the spot rates as of January 31,
2009 and February 2, 2008.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a last-in,
first-out “LIFO” basis) or market.  In total, approximately 98% and 97% of
inventories for 2008 and 2007, respectively, were valued using the LIFO
method.  Cost for the balance of the inventories, including substantially
all fuel inventories, was determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”)
method.  Replacement cost was higher than the carrying amount by $800 at January 31,
2009 and $604 at February 2, 2008.  The Company follows the
Link-Chain, Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of calculating its LIFO
charge or credit.

The item-cost method of accounting to determine inventory cost before
the LIFO adjustment is followed for substantially all store inventories at the
Company’s supermarket divisions.  This method involves counting each item
in inventory, assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual
purchase costs (net of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and
recording the cost of items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting
allows for more accurate reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables
management to more precisely manage inventory when compared to the retail
method of accounting.

The Company evaluates inventory shortages throughout the year based on
actual physical counts in its facilities.  Allowances for inventory
shortages are recorded based on the results of these counts to provide for
estimated shortages as of the financial statement date.


Property, Plant and
Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at
cost.  Depreciation expense, which includes the amortization of assets
recorded under capital leases, is computed principally using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of individual assets.  Buildings and land improvements are
depreciated based on lives varying from 10 to 40 years.  All new purchases
of store equipment are assigned lives varying from three to nine years.  Some store equipment acquired as a result of
the Fred Meyer merger was assigned a 15-year life.  The life of this
equipment was not changed.  Leasehold
improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease term to which they
relate, which varies from four to 25 years, or the useful life of the
asset.  Manufacturing plant and distribution center equipment is
depreciated over lives varying from three to 15 years.  Information technology assets are generally
depreciated over five years.  Depreciation and amortization expense was
$1,442 in 2008, $1,356 in 2007 and $1,272 in 2006.

Interest costs on significant projects constructed for the Company’s own
use are capitalized as part of the costs of the newly constructed facilities. 
Upon retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed from the balance sheet and any gain or loss is
reflected in net earnings.

Deferred Rent

The Company recognizes rent holidays,
including the time period during which the Company has access to the property
for construction of buildings or improvements and escalating rent provisions on
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  The deferred amount is
included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities on the
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Goodwill

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment
during the fourth quarter of each year, and also upon the occurrence of trigger
events.  The reviews are performed at the operating division level. 
Generally, fair value is determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted
projected future cash flows, and is compared to the carrying value of a
division for purposes of identifying potential impairment.  Projected
future cash flows are based on management’s knowledge of the current operating
environment and expectations for the future.  If potential for impairment
is identified, the fair value of a division is measured against the fair value
of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an
implied fair value of the division’s goodwill.  Goodwill impairment is
recognized for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over
the implied fair value.  Results of the goodwill impairment reviews performed
during 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized in Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

, the Company monitors the carrying value of
long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based on whether
certain trigger events have occurred.  These events include current period
losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses
or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset.  When a trigger
event occurs, an impairment calculation is performed, comparing projected
undiscounted future cash flows, utilizing current cash flow information and
expected growth rates related to specific stores, to the carrying value for
those stores.  If the Company identifies
impairment for long-lived assets to be held and used, the Company compares the
assets’ current carrying value to the assets’ fair value.  Fair value is determined based on market values
or discounted future cash flows.  The
Company records impairment when the carrying value exceeds fair market
value.  With respect to owned property
and equipment held for sale, the value of the property and equipment is
adjusted to reflect recoverable values based on previous efforts to dispose of
similar assets and current economic conditions.  Impairment is recognized
for the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair market value,
reduced by estimated direct costs of disposal. 
The Company recorded asset impairments in the normal course of business
totaling $26, $24 and $61 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Costs to reduce the carrying value of
long-lived assets for each of the years presented have been included in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations as “Operating, general and administrative”
expense.


Store Closing Costs

All closed store liabilities related to exit or disposal activities
initiated after December 31, 2002, are accounted for in accordance with
SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities

.  The Company
provides for closed store liabilities relating to the present value of the
estimated remaining noncancellable lease payments after the closing date, net
of estimated subtenant income.  The Company estimates the net lease
liabilities using a discount rate to calculate the present value of the
remaining net rent payments on closed stores.  The closed store lease
liabilities usually are paid over the lease terms associated with the closed
stores, which generally have remaining terms ranging from one to 20
years.  Adjustments to closed store liabilities primarily relate to
changes in subtenant income and actual exit costs differing from original
estimates.  Adjustments are made for changes in estimates in the period in
which the change becomes known.  Store closing liabilities are reviewed
quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount that is not a sufficient estimate
of future costs, or that no longer is needed for its originally intended
purpose, is adjusted to income in the proper period.

Owned stores held for disposal are reduced to their estimated net
realizable value.  Costs to reduce the carrying values of property,
equipment and leasehold improvements are accounted for in accordance with the
Company’s policy on impairment of long-lived assets.  Inventory
write-downs, if any, in connection with store closings, are classified in “Merchandise
costs.”  Costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores are
expensed as incurred.

The following table summarizes accrual activity for future lease
obligations of stores closed that were closed in the normal course of business:

Interest Rate Risk
Management

The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage its exposure
to changes in interest rates.  The Company’s current program relative to
interest rate protection and the methods by which the Company accounts for its
derivative instruments are described in Note 6.

Commodity Price
Protection

The Company enters
into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials
utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in its stores,
manufacturing facilities and administrative offices.  The Company enters
into commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources
in the conduct of the normal course of business.  The Company’s current
program relative to commodity price protection and the methods by which the
Company accounts for its purchase commitments are described in Note 6.


Benefit Plans

Effective February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and
disclosure provisions (except for the measurement date change) of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 87,
99, 106 and 132(R)

(SFAS
158)

,

which requires the
recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or
losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations that have not
yet been recognized are required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”).  The

Company adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective February 3,
2008.  The majority of our pension and postretirement
plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of the Company’s
fiscal year end.  The non-cash effect of
the adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 decreased
shareholders’ equity by approximately $5 ($3 after-tax) and increased long-term
liabilities by approximately $5.  There
was no effect on the Company’s results of operations.

The determination of the obligation and expense for Company-sponsored
pension plans and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the selection
of assumptions used by actuaries and the Company in calculating those
amounts.  Those assumptions are described in Note 13 and include, among
others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
and the rates of increase in compensation and health care costs.  Actual
results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over
future periods and, therefore, generally affect the recognized expense and
recorded obligation in future periods.  While the Company believes that
the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience
or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension and
other post-retirement obligations and future expense.

The Company also participates in various multi-employer plans for
substantially all union employees.  Pension expense for these plans is
recognized as contributions are funded. Refer to Note 13 for additional
information regarding the Company’s benefit plans.

Stock Based
Compensation

The Company accounts
for stock options under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

(SFAS 123(R))

.

Under this
method, the Company recognizes compensation expense for all share-based payments
granted after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based payments
granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, in
accordance with SFAS 123(R).  Under the
fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), the Company recognizes share-based
compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the requisite
service period of the award.  In
addition, the Company accounts for restricted stock awards under SFAS 123(R).  The Company records expense for restricted
stock awards in an amount equal to the fair market value of the underlying
stock on the grant date of the award, over the period the awards lapse.

Deferred Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect
the tax consequences of differences between the tax basis of assets and
liabilities and their financial reporting basis.  Refer to Note 4 for the
types of differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred income
tax assets and liabilities.  Deferred income taxes are classified as a net
current or noncurrent asset or liability based on the classification of the
related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes.  A deferred
tax asset or liability that is not related to an asset or liability for
financial reporting is classified according to the expected reversal date.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Effective February 4, 2007, the Company
adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

(“FIN No. 48”), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  This interpretation also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure, and transition.

Various taxing authorities periodically audit
the Company’s income tax returns.  These audits include questions
regarding the Company’s tax filing positions, including the timing and amount
of deductions and the allocation of income to various tax jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposures connected with
these various tax filing positions, including state and local taxes, the
Company records allowances for probable exposures.  A number of years may
elapse before a particular matter, for which an allowance has been established,
is audited and fully resolved.  As of January 31, 2009, the most
recent examination concluded by the Internal Revenue Service covered the years
2002 through 2004.


The assessment of
the Company’s tax position relies on the judgment of management to estimate the
exposures associated with the Company’s various filing positions.

Self-Insurance Costs

The Company primarily is self-insured for
costs related to workers’ compensation and general liability claims. 
Liabilities are actuarially determined and are recognized based on claims filed
and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported.  The liabilities for workers’
compensation claims are accounted for on a present value basis.  The
Company has purchased stop-loss coverage to limit its exposure to any
significant exposure on a per claim basis.  The Company is insured for
covered costs in excess of these per claim limits.

The following table summarizes the changes in the Company’s
self-insurance liability through January 31, 2009.

The current portion of the self-insured
liability is included in “Other current liabilities”, and the long-term portion
is included in “Other long-term liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

The Company is also similarly self-insured for
property-related losses.  The Company has purchased stop-loss coverage to
limit its exposure to losses in excess of $25 on a per claim basis, except in
the case of an earthquake, for which stop-loss coverage is in excess of $50 per
claim, up to $200 per claim in California and $300 outside of California.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues from the sale of products are
recognized at the point of sale of the Company’s products.  Discounts
provided to customers by the Company at the time of sale, including those
provided in connection with loyalty cards, are recognized as a reduction in
sales as the products are sold.  Discounts provided by vendors, usually in
the form of paper coupons, are not recognized as a reduction in sales provided
the coupons are redeemable at any retailer that accepts coupons.  Pharmacy
sales are recorded when provided to the customer.  Sales taxes are not
recorded as a component of sales.  The Company does not recognize a sale
when it sells gift cards and gift certificates.  Rather, a sale is
recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed to purchase the
Company’s products.

Merchandise Costs

The “Merchandise costs” line item of the
Consolidated Statements of Operations includes product costs, net of discounts
and allowances; advertising costs (see separate discussion below); inbound
freight charges; warehousing costs, including receiving and inspection costs;
transportation costs; and manufacturing production and operational costs. 
Warehousing, transportation and manufacturing management salaries are also
included in the “Merchandise costs” line item; however, purchasing management
salaries and administration costs are included in the “Operating, general, and
administrative” line item along with most of the Company’s other managerial and
administrative costs.  Rent expense and depreciation expense are shown
separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Warehousing and transportation costs include distribution center direct
wages, repairs and maintenance, utilities, inbound freight and, where
applicable, third party warehouse management fees, as well as transportation
direct wages and repairs and maintenance.  These costs are recognized in
the periods the related expenses are incurred.


The Company believes the classification of costs included in merchandise
costs could vary widely throughout the industry.  The Company’s approach
is to include in the “Merchandise costs” line item the direct, net costs of
acquiring products and making them available to customers in its stores. 
The Company believes this approach most accurately presents the actual costs of
products sold.

The Company recognizes all vendor allowances as a reduction in
merchandise costs when the related product is sold.  When possible, vendor
allowances are applied to the related product by item and, therefore, reduce
the carrying value of inventory by item.  When the items are sold, the
vendor allowance is recognized.  When it is not possible, due to systems
constraints, to allocate vendor allowances to the product by item, vendor
allowances are recognized as a reduction in merchandise costs based on
inventory turns and, therefore, recognized as the product is sold.

Advertising Costs

The Company’s advertising costs are recognized
in the periods the related expenses are incurred and are included in the “Merchandise
costs” line item of the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The
Company’s pre-tax advertising costs totaled $532 in 2008, $506 in 2007 and $508
in 2006.  The Company does not record vendor allowances for co-operative
advertising as a reduction of advertising expense.

Deposits In-Transit

Deposits in-transit generally represent funds
deposited to the Company’s bank accounts at the end of the year related to
sales, a majority of which were paid for with credit cards and checks, to which
the Company does not have immediate access.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company
considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less to be temporary cash investments.  Book
overdrafts, which are included in accounts payable, represent disbursements
that are funded as the item is presented for payment.  Book overdrafts
totaled $663, $661 and $600 as of January 31, 2009, February 2, 2008,
and February 3, 2007, respectively, and are reflected as a financing
activity in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Segments

The Company operates retail food and drug
stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores
throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail operations, which
represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated sales, are its only
reportable segment. All of the Company’s operations are domestic.


2.

G

OODWILL

The annual evaluation of goodwill performed during the fourth quarter of
2008, 2007 and 2006 did not result in impairment.

The following table summarizes the changes in the Company’s net goodwill
balance through January 31, 2009.

In December 2008, the FASB issued FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,

Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about
Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities

(FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8).

FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 require
additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with variable interest
entities and transfers of financial assets. 
Effective January 31, 2009, the Company has adopted FAS 140-4 and FIN
46(R)-8 .

In the first
quarter of 2008, the Company made an investment in The Little Clinic LLC (“TLC”).  TLC operates supermarket walk-in medical
clinics in seven states, primarily in the Midwest and Southeast.  At the date of investment, TLC was determined
to be a variable-interest entity (“VIE”) under FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(FIN 46R), with the Company being the primary beneficiary.  The Company was deemed the primary
beneficiary due to its current ownership interest and half of its written put
options being at a floor price.  As a
result, the Company consolidated TLC in accordance with FIN 46R.  The minority interest was recorded at fair
value on the acquisition date.  The fair
value of TLC was determined based on the amount of the investment made by the
Company and the percentage acquired.  The
Company’s assessment of goodwill represents the excess of this amount over the
fair value of TLC’s net assets as of the investment date.  Creditors of TLC have no recourse to the
general credit of the Company. 
Conversely, creditors of the Company have no recourse to the assets of
TLC.  In addition, if requested by TLC’s
Board of Directors by January 1, 2010, the Company has agreed to make a
pro rata portion of an additional capital contribution.

The table below
shows the unaudited amounts of assets and liabilities from TLC included in the
Company’s consolidated results, after eliminating intercompany items, as of January 31,
2009:


In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company became the primary
beneficiary of i-wireless, LLC a VIE in which the Company has a 25% ownership
interest.  The Company was deemed the
primary beneficiary due to its current ownership interest, $25 line of credit
guarantee, and $8 loan to i-wireless, LLC. 
The Company became the primary beneficiary, in the fourth quarter of
2008, under FIN 46R after lending $8 to i-wireless, LLC.  i-wireless, LLC sells prepaid phones
primarily in Company stores.  The
minority interest was recorded at fair value. 
The fair value of i-wireless, LLC was determined based on the amount of
the investment made by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2007 and the
percentage acquired.  The Company’s
assessment of goodwill represents the excess of this amount over the fair value
of i-wireless, LLC’s net assets as of the date of the loan.  The Company has guaranteed the indebtedness
of i-wireless, LLC, up to $25, which is collateralized by $8 of inventory
located in the Company’s stores. The creditors of the Company have no recourse
to the assets of i-wireless, LLC.

The table below
shows the preliminary and unaudited amounts of assets and liabilities from
i-wireless, LLC included in the Company’s consolidated results, after
eliminating intercompany items, as of January 31, 2009:

The proforma
effects of these acquisitions are not material to previously reported results.

3.             P

ROPERTY,

P

LANT AND

E

QUIPMENT,

N

ET

Property, plant and equipment, net consists
of:

Accumulated depreciation for leased property under capital leases was
$283 at January 31, 2009, and $286 at February 2, 2008.

Approximately $396 and $540, original cost, of Property, Plant and
Equipment collateralized certain mortgages at January 31, 2009 and February 2,
2008, respectively.


4.

T

AXES

B

ASED ON

I

NCOME

The provision for taxes based on income
consists of:

A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate
and the effective rate follows:

During the third quarter
of 2007, the Company resolved favorably certain tax issues.  This resulted in a 2007 tax benefit of approximately
$40.

In 2006, during the
reconciliation of the Company’s deferred tax balances, after the filing of
annual federal and state tax returns, the Company identified adjustments to be
made in the prior years’ deferred tax reconciliation.  These deferred tax balances were corrected in
the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended February 3,
2007, which resulted in a reduction of the Company’s 2006 provision for income
tax expense of approximately $21.  The
Company does not believe these adjustments are material to its Consolidated
Financial Statements for the year ended February 3, 2007, or to any prior
years’ Consolidated Financial Statements. 
As a result, the Company has not restated any prior year amounts.


The tax effects of significant temporary
differences that comprise tax balances were as follows:

At January 31, 2009, the Company had net operating loss
carryforwards for state income tax purposes of $451 that expire from 2009
through 2028.  The utilization of certain of the Company’s net operating
loss carryforwards may be limited in a given year.

At January 31, 2009, the Company had State credits of $20, some of
which expire from 2009 through 2027.  The utilization of certain of the
Company’s credits may be limited in a given year.


The Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

on February 4, 2007.  As of
adoption, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax
positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, was
$694.  A reconciliation of the beginning
and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of January 31, 2009 and February 2,
2008 is a follows:

The Company does not anticipate that changes in the amount of
unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months will have a significant
impact on its results of operations or financial position.

As of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, the amount of
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax
rate was $116 and $120, respectively.

To the extent interest and penalties would be assessed by taxing
authorities on any underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued
and classified as a component of income tax expense.  During the years ended January 31, 2009
and February 2, 2008, the Company recognized approximately $6 and $(11),
respectively, in interest and penalties. 
The Company had accrued approximately $99 and $101 for the payment of
interest and penalties as of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008,
respectively.

The IRS concluded a field examination of the Company’s 2002 — 2004 U.S.
tax returns during the third quarter of 2007 and is currently auditing years
2005 — 2007.  The audit is not expected
to be completed in the next twelve months. 
Additionally, the Company has a case in the U.S. Tax Court.  A decision on this case is not expected
within the next 12 months.  In connection
with this case, the Company has extended the statute of limitations on our tax
years after 1991 and those years remain open to examination.  States have a limited time frame to review
and adjust federal audit changes reported. 
Assessments made and refunds allowed are generally limited to the
federal audit changes reported.

5.             D

EBT

O

BLIGATIONS

Long-term debt consists of:

In 2007, the Company
issued $600 of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.4% due in 2017 and
$750 of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.15% due in 2020.

In 2008, the Company
issued $400 of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 5.0% due in 2013, $375
of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.9% due in 2038 and $600 of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 7.5% due in 2014.


As of January 31,
2009, the Company had a $2,500 Five-Year Credit Agreement maturing in 2011,
unless earlier terminated by the Company.  Borrowings under the credit
agreement bear interest at the option of the Company at a rate equal to either (i) the
highest, from time to time of (A) the base rate of JP Morgan Chase Bank,
N.A., (B) ½% over a moving average of secondary market morning offering
rates for three-month certificates of deposit adjusted for reserve
requirements, and (C) ½% over the federal funds rate or (ii) an
adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (“Eurodollar
Rate”) plus an applicable margin.  In addition, the Company pays a
facility fee in connection with the credit agreement.  Both the applicable
margin and the facility fee vary based upon the Company’s achievement of a
financial ratio or credit rating.  At January 31, 2009, the
applicable margin was 0.19%, and the facility fee was 0.06%.  The credit
facility contains covenants, which, among other things, require the maintenance
of certain financial ratios, including fixed charge coverage and leverage
ratios.  The Company may prepay the credit agreement in whole or in part,
at any time, without a prepayment penalty. 
In addition to the credit agreement, the Company maintained three uncommitted
money market lines totaling $75 in the aggregate.  The money market lines allow the Company to
borrow from banks at mutually agreed upon rates, usually at rates below the
rates offered under the credit agreement. 
As of January 31, 2009, the Company had no borrowings under its
credit agreement and net outstanding commercial paper of $90, that reduced
amounts available under the Company’s credit agreement.  In addition, as of January 31, 2009, the
Company had borrowings under its money market lines totaling $39.  The weighted average interest rate on
outstanding commercial paper and borrowings under the Company’s money market
lines was 1.89% at January 31, 2009. 
The outstanding letters of credit that reduce funds available under the
Company’s credit agreement totaled $337 as of January 31, 2009.

Most of the Company’s outstanding public debt is subject to early
redemption at varying times and premiums, at the option of the Company. 
In addition, subject to certain conditions, some of the Company’s publicly
issued debt will be subject to redemption, in whole or in part, at the option
of the holder upon the occurrence of a redemption event, upon not less than
five days’ notice prior to the date of redemption, at a redemption price equal
to the default amount, plus a specified premium.  “Redemption Event” is
defined in the indentures as the occurrence of (i) any person or group,
together with any affiliate thereof, beneficially owning 50% or more of the
voting power of the Company, (ii) any one person or group, or affiliate
thereof, succeeding in having a majority of its nominees elected to the Company’s
Board of Directors, in each case, without the consent of a majority of the
continuing directors of the Company or (iii) both a change of control and
a below investment grade rating.

The aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term
debt, as of year-end 2008, and for the years subsequent to 2008 are:

6.

Derivative F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

Interest Rate Risk
Management

The Company historically has used derivatives to manage its exposure to
changes in interest rates.  The interest differential to be paid or
received is accrued as interest expense. SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities

, as amended, defines derivatives, requires that
derivatives be carried at fair value on the balance sheet and provides for
hedge accounting when certain conditions are met.  In accordance with this
standard, the Company’s derivative financial instruments are recognized on the
balance sheet at fair value.  Changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments designated as “cash flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are
highly effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax
effects. Ineffective portions of cash flow hedges, if any, are recognized in
current period earnings.  Other comprehensive income or loss is
reclassified into current period earnings when the hedged transaction affects
earnings.  Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated
as “fair value” hedges, along with corresponding changes in the fair values of
the hedged assets or liabilities, are recorded in current period earnings.  Ineffective portions of fair value hedges, if
any, are recognized in current period earnings.


The Company assesses, both at the inception of the hedge and on an
ongoing basis, whether derivatives used as hedging instruments are highly
effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flow of the
hedged items.  If it is determined that a derivative is not highly
effective as a hedge or ceases to be highly effective, the Company discontinues
hedge accounting prospectively.

The Company’s current program relative to interest rate protection
contemplates hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate
debt attributable to changes in interest rates.  To do this, the Company
uses the following guidelines: (i) use average daily outstanding
borrowings to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit
the average annual amount subject to interest rate reset and the amount of
floating rate debt to a combined total of $2,500 million or less, (iii) include
no leverage products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or
sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

Annually, the Company reviews with the Financial Policy Committee of the
Board of Directors compliance with the guidelines.  These guidelines may
change as the Company’s needs dictate.

The table below summarizes the outstanding
interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges as of January 31,
2009, and February 2, 2008.

As of February 2, 2008, other long-term assets totaling $11 were
recorded to reflect the fair value of these agreements, offset by increases in
the fair value of the underlying debt.

In 2008, the Company terminated nine fair value interest rate swaps with
a total notional amount of $900.  Three
of these terminated interest rate swaps were purchased and became ineffective
fair value hedges in 2008.  The proceeds
received at termination were credited to interest expense in the amount of
$15.  The Company has unamortized
proceeds from twelve interest rate swaps once classified as fair value hedges
totaling approximately $45.  The
unamortized proceeds are recorded as adjustments to the carrying values of the
underlying debt and are being amortized over the remaining term of the debt.

In addition to the interest rate swaps noted above, in 2005 the Company
entered into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a
notional amount totaling $750.  A forward-starting interest rate swap is
an agreement that effectively hedges future benchmark interest rates on debt
for an established period of time.  The Company entered into the
forward-starting interest rate swaps in order to lock into fixed interest rates
on forecasted issuances of debt in 2007 and 2008.  In 2007, the Company terminated two of these
forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $500.  In 2008, the Company terminated the remaining
forward-starting interest rate swap with a notional amount of $250.  The unamortized payments and proceeds on
these terminated forward-starting interest rate swaps have been recorded net of
tax in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to earnings as the
payments of interest to which the hedge relates are made.  As of February 2, 2008, other long-term
liabilities totaling $18 were recorded to reflect the fair value of these
agreements.

Commodity Price
Protection

The Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources,
including raw materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to
be used in its stores, warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative
offices.  The Company enters into commitments expecting to take delivery
of and to utilize those resources in the conduct of normal business. 
Those commitments for which the Company expects to utilize or take delivery in
a reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business qualify as normal
purchases and normal sales.


Some of the product the Company purchases is shipped in corrugated
cardboard packaging.  The corrugated cardboard is sold when it is
economical to do so.  As of January 31,
2009, the Company maintained a derivative instrument to manage exposure to
changes in corrugated cardboard prices.  This derivative has a three-year
term.  The instrument does not qualify
for hedge accounting, in accordance with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging
Activities,

as amended.  Accordingly, the change in the fair
value of this instrument is marked-to-market in the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Operations as operating, general and administrative (“OG&A”)
expense.  As of January 31, 2009, the fair value of this instrument
was insignificant.

7.

F

AIR

V

ALUE OF

F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

In September 2006,
the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair
Value Measurements

(SFAS 157), which defines fair value, establishes
a market-based framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 does
not expand or require any new fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 is effective for financial assets
and financial liabilities for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  FASB Staff Position (FSP) 157-2

Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement No. 157

(FSP 157-2), deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for most
non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities to fiscal years beginning
after November 15, 2008.  Effective February 3,
2008, the Company adopted SFAS 157, except for non-financial assets and
non-financial liabilities as deferred until February 1, 2009 by FSP 157-2.

SFAS 157
establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure
fair value.  The three levels of the fair
value hierarchy defined by SFAS 157 are as follows:

Level 1 — Quoted
prices are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

Level 2 — Pricing
inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1,
which are either directly or indirectly observable;

Level 3 —
Unobservable pricing inputs in which little or no market activity exists,
therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions about the
assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or
liability.

For those
financial instruments carried at fair value in the consolidated financial
statements, the following table summarizes the fair value of these instruments
at January 31, 2009:

Fair
Value Measurements Using

Quoted Prices in

Active Markets

for Identical

Assets

(Level 1)

Significant Other

Observable Inputs

(Level 2)

Significant

Unobservable

Inputs

(Level 3)

Total

Available-for-Sale
  Securities

$


$

—

$

—

$


Fair Value of Other Financial
Instruments

Current and Long-term
Debt

The fair value of the Company’s long-term
debt, including current maturities, was estimated based on the quoted market
price for the same or similar issues adjusted for illiquidity based on
available market evidence.  If quoted
market prices were not available, the fair value was based upon the net present
value of the future cash flow using the forward interest rate yield curve in
effect at the respective year-ends.  At January 31,
2009, the fair value of total debt was $7,920 compared to a carrying value of
$7,597.  At February 2, 2008, the
fair value of total debt was $7,973 compared to a carrying value of $7,639.


Cash and Temporary Cash Investments, Store Deposits
In-Transit, Receivables, Prepaid and Other Current Assets, Accounts Payable,
Accrued Salaries and Wages and Other Current Liabilities

The carrying amounts of these items approximated fair value.

Long-term Investments

The fair values of these investments were
estimated based on quoted market prices for those or similar investments, or
estimated cash flows, if appropriate.  At
January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, the carrying and fair value of
practicable long-term investments was $67 and $75, respectively.

8.

L

EASES AND

L

EASE-FINANCED

T

RANSACTIONS

The Company operates primarily in leased
facilities. Lease terms generally range from 10 to 20 years with options to
renew for varying terms. Terms of certain leases include escalation clauses,
percentage rent based on sales or payment of executory costs such as property
taxes, utilities or insurance and maintenance. Rent expense for leases with
escalation clauses or other lease concessions are accounted for on a
straight-line basis beginning with the earlier of the lease commencement date
or the date the Company takes possession.  Portions of certain properties are subleased
to others for periods generally ranging from one to 20 years.

Rent expense (under operating leases) consists
of:

Minimum annual rentals and payments under
capital leases and lease-financed transactions for the five years subsequent to
2008 and in the aggregate are:

Total future minimum rentals under noncancellable subleases at January 31,
2009, were $334.


9.

E

ARNINGS

P

ER

C

OMMON

S

HARE

Basic earnings per common share equals net earnings divided by the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding.  Diluted earnings
per common share equals net earnings divided by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding after giving effect to dilutive stock options and
warrants.

The following table provides a reconciliation
of earnings and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share to those
used in calculating diluted earnings per share.

For the years ended January 31, 2009, February 2,
2008 and February 3, 2007, there were options outstanding for
approximately 11.8 million, 2.0 million and 25.4 million shares of common
stock, respectively, that were excluded from the computation of diluted
EPS.  These shares were excluded because their inclusion would have had an
anti-dilutive effect on EPS.

10.

S

TOCK

O

PTION

P

LANS

The Company grants
options for common stock (“stock options”) to employees, as well as to its
non-employee directors, under various plans at an option price equal to the
fair market value of the stock at the date of grant.  The Company accounts for stock options under
the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

(SFAS 123(R))

.

Under this
method, the Company recognizes compensation expense for all share-based
payments granted after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based
payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, in
accordance with SFAS 123(R).  Under the
fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123(R), the Company recognizes
share-based compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the
requisite service period of the award. 
Equity awards may be made at one of four meetings of its Board of
Directors occurring shortly after the Company’s release of quarterly
earnings.  The 2008 primary grant was
made in conjunction with the June meeting of the Company’s Board of
Directors.

Stock options typically expire 10 years from
the date of grant.  Stock options vest
between one and five years from the date of grant, or for certain stock
options, the earlier of the Company’s stock reaching certain pre-determined and
appreciated market prices or nine years and six months from the date of
grant.  At January 31, 2009,
approximately 25 million shares of common stock were available for future
option grants under these plans.

In addition to the stock options described above, the Company awards
restricted stock to employees under various plans.  The restrictions on these awards generally
lapse between one and five years from the date of the awards.

Under SFAS 123(R), the Company records
expense for restricted stock awards in an amount equal to the fair market value
of the underlying stock on the grant date of the award, over the period the
awards lapse.

As of January 31, 2009, approximately one
million shares of common stock were available for future restricted stock
awards under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “Plan”).  The Company has the ability to convert shares
available for stock options under the Plan to shares available for restricted
stock awards.  Four shares available for
common stock option awards can be converted into one share available for
restricted stock awards.

All awards become immediately exercisable upon certain changes of
control of the Company.


Stock Options

Changes in options outstanding under the stock option plans are
summarized below:

A summary of options outstanding and
exercisable at January 31, 2009 follows:

The
weighted-average remaining contractual life for options exercisable at January 31,
2009, was approximately 3.6 years.


Restricted
stock

The
weighted-average fair value of stock options granted during 2008, 2007 and 2006
was $8.65, $9.66 and $6.90, respectively. 
The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the assumptions
shown in the table below.  The
Black-Scholes model utilizes extensive judgment and financial estimates,
including the term employees are expected to retain their stock options before
exercising them, the volatility of the Company’s stock price over that expected
term, the dividend yield over the term and the number of awards expected to be
forfeited before they vest.  Using
alternative assumptions in the calculation of fair value would produce fair
values for stock option grants that could be different than those used to
record stock-based compensation expense in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

The following
table reflects the weighted-average assumptions used for grants awarded to
option holders:

The
weighted-average risk-free interest rate was based on the yield of a treasury
note as of the grant date, continuously compounded, which matures at a date
that approximates the expected term of options. 
The dividend yield was based on our history and expectation of dividend
payouts.  Expected volatility was
determined based upon historical stock volatilities; however, implied
volatility was also considered.  Expected
term was determined based upon a combination of historical exercise and
cancellation experience as well as estimates of expected future exercise and
cancellation experience.

Total stock
compensation recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $91, $87 and $72,
respectively.  Stock option compensation
recognized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $35, $51 and $50, respectively.  Restricted shares compensation recognized in
2008, 2007 and 2006 was $56, $36 and $22 respectively.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $18, $33 and $79 in
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The
total amount of cash received in 2008 by the Company from the exercise of
options granted under share-based payment arrangements was $172.  As of January 31, 2009, there was $118
of total unrecognized compensation expense remaining related to non-vested
share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Company’s equity award
plans.  This cost is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately one year.  The total fair value of options that vested
was $53, $53 and $44 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.


Shares issued as a result of stock option exercises may be newly issued
shares or reissued treasury shares. 
Proceeds received from the exercise of options, and the related tax
benefit, may be utilized to repurchase shares of the Company’s stock under a
stock repurchase program adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors.  During 2008, the Company repurchased
approximately seven million shares of stock in such a manner.

For share-based awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the
Company’s stock option grants generally contained retirement-eligibility
provisions that caused the options to vest upon the earlier of the stated
vesting date or retirement.  Compensation
expense was calculated over the stated vesting periods, regardless of whether
certain employees became retirement-eligible during the respective vesting
periods.  Upon the adoption of SFAS
123(R), the Company continued this method of recognizing compensation expense
for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R).  For awards granted on or after January 29,
2006, options vest based on the stated vesting date, even if an employee
retires prior to the vesting date.  The
requisite service period ends, however, on the employee’s retirement-eligible
date.  As a result, the Company
recognizes expense for stock option grants containing such
retirement-eligibility provisions over the shorter of the vesting period or the
period until employees become retirement-eligible (the requisite service
period).  As a result of retirement
eligibility provisions in stock option awards granted on or after January 29,
2006, approximately $9 of compensation expense was recognized in 2008 prior to
the completion of stated vesting periods.

11.

C

OMMITMENTS AND

C

ONTINGENCIES

The Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best
available evidence.

The Company believes
that allowances for loss have been provided to the extent necessary and that
its assessment of contingencies is reasonable.  To the extent that
resolution of contingencies results in amounts that vary from the Company’s
estimates, future earnings will be charged or credited.

The principal contingencies are described below:

Insurance

— The Company’s workers’ compensation risks are self-insured in certain
states. In addition, other workers’ compensation risks and certain levels of
insured general liability risks are based on retrospective premium plans,
deductible plans, and self-insured retention plans.  The liability for
workers’ compensation risks is accounted for on a present value basis. 
Actual claim settlements and expenses incident thereto may differ from the
provisions for loss.  Property risks have been underwritten by a
subsidiary and are reinsured with unrelated insurance companies. 
Operating divisions and subsidiaries have paid premiums, and the insurance
subsidiary has provided loss allowances, based upon actuarially determined
estimates.

Litigation —

On October 6, 2006, the Company petitioned the Tax Court (

In Re: Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries,
formerly known as Ralphs Supermarkets, Inc., Docket No. 20364-06

)
for a redetermination of deficiencies set by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.  The dispute at issue involves a
1992 transaction in which Ralphs Holding Company acquired the stock of Ralphs
Grocery Company and made an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  The Commissioner
has determined that the acquisition of the stock was not a purchase as defined
by Section 338(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and that the
acquisition does not qualify as a purchase. 
The Company believes that it has strong arguments in favor of its
position and believes it is more likely than not that its position will be
sustained.  However, due to the inherent
uncertainty involved in the litigation process, there can be no assurances that
the Tax Court will rule in favor of the Company.  As of January 31, 2009, an adverse
decision would require a cash payment up to approximately $436, including
interest.

On February 2, 2004, the Attorney General for the State of
California filed an action in Los Angeles federal court (

California, ex rel Lockyer v. Safeway, Inc. dba
Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc. and Ralphs Grocery Company, a
division of The Kroger Co.

, United States District Court Central
District of California, Case No. CV04-0687) alleging that the Mutual
Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between the Company, Albertson’s, Inc.
and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”), which was designed to prevent
the union from placing disproportionate pressure on one or more of the
Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the other Retailer(s) during
the labor dispute in southern California, violated Section 1 of the
Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and injunctive relief. On May 28,
2008, pursuant to a stipulation between the parties, the court entered a final
judgment in favor of the defendants.  As
a result of the stipulation and final judgment, there are no further claims to
be litigated at the trial court level. 
The Attorney General has appealed a trial court ruling to the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals and the defendants are appealing a separate ruling.  Although this lawsuit is subject to
uncertainties inherent in the litigation process, based on the information
presently available to the Company, management does not expect that the
ultimate resolution of this action will have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


Various claims and lawsuits arising in the
normal course of business, including suits charging violations of certain
antitrust, wage and hour, or civil rights laws, are pending against the
Company. Some of these suits purport or have been determined to be class
actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in
antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although it is not possible at
this time to evaluate the merits of all of these claims and lawsuits, nor their
likelihood of success, the Company is of the belief that any resulting
liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position.

The Company
continually evaluates its exposure to loss contingencies arising from pending
or threatened litigation and believes it has made adequate provisions therefor.
Nonetheless, assessing and predicting the outcomes of these matters involve
substantial uncertainties. It remains possible that despite management’s
current belief, material differences in actual outcomes or changes in
management’s evaluation or predictions could arise that could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operation.

Guarantees —

The Company has guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real estate
entities in which Kroger has a 50% ownership interest.  The Company’s
share of the responsibility for this indebtedness, should the entities be
unable to meet their obligations, totals approximately $7.  Based on the
covenants underlying this indebtedness as of January 31, 2009 it is
unlikely that the Company will be responsible for repayment of these
obligations.  The Company also agreed to
guarantee, up to $25, the indebtedness of an entity in which Kroger has a 25%
ownership interest.  The Company’s share
of the responsibility, as of January 31, 2009, should the entity be unable
to meet its obligations, totals approximately $25 and is collateralized by
approximately $8 of inventory located in the Company’s stores.  In addition, the Company has guaranteed half
of the lease payments of a location leased by an entity in which Kroger has a
50% ownership interest.  The net present
value of the guaranteed rental payments is approximately $6.

Assignments —

The Company is contingently liable for leases that have been assigned
to various third parties in connection with facility closings and
dispositions.  The Company could be required to satisfy the obligations
under the leases if any of the assignees is unable to fulfill its lease
obligations.  Due to the wide distribution of the Company’s assignments
among third parties, and various other remedies available, the Company believes
the likelihood that it will be required to assume a material amount of these
obligations is remote.

12.

S

TOCK

Preferred Stock

The Company has authorized five million shares of voting cumulative
preferred stock; two million were available for issuance at January 31,
2009.  The stock has a par value of $100
per share and is issuable in series.

Common Stock

The Company has authorized one billion shares
of common stock, $1 par value per share.  On May 20, 1999, the
shareholders authorized an amendment to the Amended Articles of Incorporation
to increase the authorized shares of common stock from one billion to two
billion when the Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of
the Company.

Common
Stock Repurchase Program

The Company maintains stock repurchase programs that comply with
Securities Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 to allow for the orderly repurchase of
Kroger stock, from time to time.  The Company made open market purchases
totaling $448, $1,151 and $374 under these repurchase programs in fiscal 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  In addition to these repurchase programs, in
December 1999, the Company began a program to repurchase common stock to
reduce dilution resulting from its employee stock option plans.  This
program is solely funded by proceeds from stock option exercises, and the related
tax benefit.  The Company repurchased approximately $189, $270 and $259
under the stock option program during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.


13.

B

ENEFIT

P

LANS

The Company
administers non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans for substantially
all non-union employees and some union-represented employees as determined by
the terms and conditions of collective bargaining agreements.  These
include several qualified pension plans (the “Qualified Plans”) and a
non-qualified plan (the “Non-Qualified Plan”).  The Non-Qualified Plan
pays benefits to any employee that earns in excess of the maximum allowed for
the Qualified Plans by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The
Company only funds obligations under the Qualified Plans.  Funding for the
pension plans is based on a review of the specific requirements and on
evaluation of the assets and liabilities of each plan.

In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain
health care benefits for retired employees.  The majority of the Company’s
employees may become eligible for these benefits if they reach normal
retirement age while employed by the Company.  Funding of retiree health care benefits occurs
as claims or premiums are paid.

Effective February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and
disclosure provisions (except for the measurement date change) of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 87,
99, 106 and 132(R)

(SFAS
158)

,

which requires the
recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or
losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations that have not
yet been recognized are required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”).  The

Company adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective February 3,
2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of the Company’s
fiscal year end.  The non-cash effect of
the adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 decreased
shareholders’ equity by approximately $5 ($3 after-tax) and increased long-term
liabilities by approximately $5.  There
was no effect on the Company’s results of operations.

Amounts recognized in AOCI as of January 31, 2009 consist of the
following (pre-tax):

Amounts in AOCI expected to be recognized as components of net periodic
pension or postretirement benefit costs in 2009 are as follows (pre-tax):

Other changes recognized in other comprehensive income in 2008 are as
follows (pre-tax):


Information with respect to change in benefit
obligation, change in plan assets, the funded status of the plans recorded in
the Consolidated Balance Sheets, net amounts recognized at end of fiscal years,
weighted average assumptions and components of net periodic benefit cost
follow:

Other current
liabilities as of both January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008 include $17 of net
liability recognized.

As of January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, pension plan
assets included no shares of The Kroger Co. common stock.

The Company’s discount rate assumption was intended to reflect the rate
at which the pension benefits could be effectively settled.  It takes into
account the timing and amount of benefits that would be available under the
plan. The Company’s methodology for selecting the discount rate as of year-end
2008 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a yield curve that provides
the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity. 
Benefit cash flows due in a particular year can theoretically be “settled” by “investing”
them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in the same year.  The discount
rate is the single rate that produces the same present value of cash
flows.  The selection of the 7.00% discount rate as of year-end 2008
represents the equivalent single rate under a broad-market AA yield curve
constructed by an outside consultant.  We
utilized a discount rate of 6.50% for year-end 2007.  The 50 basis point
increase in the discount rate decreased the projected pension benefit
obligation as of January 31, 2009, by approximately $147.


To determine the expected return on pension plan assets, the Company
contemplates current and forecasted plan asset allocations as well as
historical and forecasted returns on various asset categories.  The
average annual return on pension plan assets was 4.1% for the ten calendar years
ended December 31, 2008, net of all fees and expenses.  Our actual
return for the pension plan calendar year ending December 31, 2008, on
that same basis, was (26.1)%.  The Company utilized a pension return
assumption of 8.5% in 2008, 2007 and 2006 based on the assumption that future
returns will achieve the same level of performance as the long-term historical
average annual return for the various markets in which the plan invests.

The fair value of plan assets decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to
deteriorating conditions in the global financial markets.  This decrease caused the Company’s
underfunded status to increase at January 31, 2009.

The Company uses the RP-2000 projected 2015 mortality table in
calculating the pension obligation.

The following table provides the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”),
accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) and the fair value of plan assets for
all Company-sponsored pension plans.

The following table provides information about
the Company’s estimated future benefit payments.

The Company discontinued the accrual of additional benefits under the
Company’s cash balance formula of the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan (the
“Cash Balance Plan”) effective January 1, 2007.  Participants in the Cash Balance Plan will
continue to earn interest credits on their accrued benefit balance as of December 31,
2006, based on average Treasury rates, but will no longer accrue cash balance
pay credits under the Cash Balance Plan after December 31, 2006.  Projected pension benefit payments, as noted
above, are lower than estimates in prior years as a result of the
discontinuation of benefit accruals under the Cash Balance Plan.  As a result of the decision to curtail
benefits under the Cash Balance Plan, the Company recorded a charge totaling
$5, pre-tax, in fiscal 2006, which represented the previously unrecognized
prior service costs.


Net periodic benefit cost
decreased in 2008 and 2007 compared to 2006 due to participants in the Cash
Balance formula of the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan being moved to a
401(k) retirement savings account plan effective January 1,
2007.  Participants under that formula
continue to earn interest on prior contributions but no additional pay credits
will be earned.  The 401(k) retirement
savings plan provides to eligible employees both matching contributions and
automatic contributions from the Company based on participant contributions,
plan compensation, and length of service. 
The Company contributed and expensed $92 and $90 to employee 401(k) retirement
savings accounts in 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The
following table provides information about the target and actual pension plan
asset allocations.  Allocation percentages are shown as of December 31
for each respective year.  The pension plan measurement date is the December 31

st

nearest the fiscal year-end.

Investment objectives, policies and strategies
are set by the Pension Investment Committee (the “Committee”) appointed by the
CEO.  The primary objectives include holding, protecting and investing the
assets and distributing benefits to participants and beneficiaries of the
pension plans.  Investment objectives have been established based on a
comprehensive review of the capital markets and each underlying plan’s current
and projected financial requirements.  The time horizon of the investment
objectives is long-term in nature and plan assets are managed on a
going-concern basis.

Investment objectives and guidelines
specifically applicable to each manager of assets are established and reviewed
annually.  Derivative instruments may be used for specified purposes,
including rebalancing exposures to certain asset classes.  Any use of
derivative instruments for a purpose or in a manner not specifically authorized
is prohibited, unless approved in advance by the Committee.

The
current target allocations shown represent 2008 targets that were originally
established in 2007 and modified during 2008. 
To maintain actual asset allocations consistent with target allocations,
assets are reallocated or rebalanced periodically.  In addition, cash flow
from employer contributions and participant benefit payments can be used to
fund underweight asset classes and divest overweight asset classes, as
appropriate.  The Company expects that cash flow will be sufficient to
meet most rebalancing needs.  Although the Company is not required to make
cash contributions to its Company-sponsored pension plans during fiscal 2009,
it made a $200 cash contribution on February 2, 2009.  Additional contributions may be made if
required under the Pension Protection Act to avoid any benefit
restrictions.  The Company expects any voluntary contributions made during
2009 will reduce its minimum required contributions in future years.

Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
for the health care plans.  The Company used a 7.80% initial health care
cost trend rate and a 4.50% ultimate health care cost trend rate to determine
its expense.  A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care
cost trend rates would have the following effects:

1% Point

Increase

1% Point

Decrease

Effect on total
  of service and interest cost components

$


$

(3

)

Effect on
  postretirement benefit obligation

$


$

(24

)


The
Company also contributes to various multi-employer pension plans based on
obligations arising from most of its collective bargaining agreements. 
These plans provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service
to contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in
trust for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by
employers and unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for
determining the level of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for
such matters as the investment of the assets and the administration of the
plans.

The
Company recognizes expense in connection with these plans as contributions are
funded, in accordance with GAAP.  The Company made contributions to these
funds, and recognized expense, of $219 in 2008, $207 in 2007, and $204 in 2006.

Based
on the most recent information available to it, the Company believes that the
present value of actuarial accrued liabilities in most or all of these
multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in
trust to pay benefits.  Moreover, if the Company were to exit certain
markets or otherwise cease making contributions to these funds, the Company
could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability.  Any adjustment for
withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists
and can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with GAAP.

The
Company also administers other defined contribution plans for eligible union
and non-union employees.  The cost of these plans for 2008, 2007 and 2006
was $8.

14.

RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS

Effective
January 31, 2009, the Company adopted FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8,

Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about
Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities

(FAS
140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8).

FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8 require
additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with variable interest
entities and transfers of financial assets. 
See Note 2 for further discussion of the adoption of FAS 140-4 and FIN
46(R)-8.

Effective February 3, 2008, the Company adopted SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurements

(SFAS 157),
except for non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities as deferred until
February 1, 2009 by FASB Staff Position (FSP) 157-2

Partial Deferral of the Effective Date of Statement No. 157

(FSP 157-2).  SFAS 157 defines fair
value, establishes a market-based framework for measuring fair value and
expands disclosures about fair value measurements.  SFAS 157 does not expand or require any new
fair value measurements.  FSP 157-2
deferred the effective date of SFAS 157 for most non-financial assets and
non-financial liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2008.  See Note 7 for further discussion
of the adoption of SFAS 157.

Effective
February 4, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

(FIN No. 48),
which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
expected to be taken in a tax return. 
This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition.  See Note 4
for further discussion of the adoption of FIN No. 48.

Effective
February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
provisions (except for the measurement date change) of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 87, 99, 106
and 132(R)

(SFAS 158)

,

which requires the recognition of
the funded status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.  Actuarial gains or losses, prior
service costs or credits and transition obligations that have not yet been
recognized are required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”).  The

Company
adopted the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158 effective February 3,
2008.  The majority of the Company’s
pension and postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement
date.  All plans are now measured as of
the Company’s fiscal year end.  The
non-cash effect of the adoption of the measurement date provisions of SFAS 158
decreased shareholders’ equity by approximately $5 ($3 after-tax) and increased
long-term liabilities by approximately $5. 
There was no effect on the Company’s results of operations.  See Note 13 for further discussion of the
adoption of this standard.


15.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51

(SFAS 160).  SFAS 160 will require the consolidation of
noncontrolling interests as a component of equity.  SFAS 160 will become effective for the
Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  The Company is currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS 160 will have on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),

Business Combinations

(SFAS 141R), which
replaces SFAS 141

.

SFAS 141R further expands the
definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.

SFAS 141R will become effective for
the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  Because the standard will only impact
transactions entered into after February 1, 2009, SFAS 141R will not effect
our Consolidated Financial Statements upon adoption.

In
March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

(SFAS 161)

.

SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures on an entity’s
derivative and hedging activities.

SFAS 161 will become effective for
the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  The Company is currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS 161 will have on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03-6-1,

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities

(FSP No. EITF
03-6-1).

FSP No. EITF 03-6-1clarifies that share-based payment
awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable dividends before vesting
should be considered participating securities and included in the calculation
of basic EPS.

FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 will
become effective for the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1,
2009.  The Company is currently
evaluating the effect the adoption of FSP No. EITF 03-6-1 will have on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.

16.

G

UARANTOR

S

UBSIDIARIES

The
Company’s outstanding public debt (the “Guaranteed Notes”) is jointly and
severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of
its subsidiaries (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”).  At January 31,
2009, a total of approximately $7,186 of Guaranteed Notes was
outstanding.  The Guarantor Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries
are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Kroger Co.  Separate financial
statements of The Kroger Co. and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not
presented because the guarantees are full and unconditional and the Guarantor
Subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable.  The Company believes that
separate financial statements and other disclosures concerning the Guarantor
Subsidiaries would not be material to investors.

The
non-guaranteeing subsidiaries represent less than 3% on an individual and
aggregate basis of consolidated assets, pre-tax earnings, cash flow, and
equity.  Therefore, the non-guarantor subsidiaries’ information is not
separately presented in the tables below.

There
are no current restrictions on the ability of the Guarantor Subsidiaries to
make payments under the guarantees referred to above, except, however, the
obligations of each guarantor under its guarantee are limited to the maximum
amount as will result in obligations of such guarantor under its guarantee not
constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer for purposes of
Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent
Transfer Act, or any similar Federal or state law (e.g., adequate capital to
pay dividends under corporate laws).


The
following tables present summarized financial information as of January 31,
2009 and February 2, 2008 and for the three years ended January 31,
2009.

Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of January 31, 2009


Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended January 31, 2009

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended February 3, 2007


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended January 31, 2009


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 3, 2007

The
above February 2, 2008 condensed consolidating balance sheet and 2007 and
2006 condensed consolidating cash flow statements have been adjusted to conform
to current year presentation and properly reflect intra-company receivables.


17.

Q

UARTERLY

D

ATA

(U

NAUDITED

)

Annual amounts may not
sum due to rounding.


ITEM
  9.

CHANGES
  IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES.

As of January 31, 2009, the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, together with a disclosure
review committee appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, evaluated Kroger’s
disclosure controls and procedures.  Based on that evaluation, Kroger’s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Kroger’s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 31, 2009.

C

HANGES IN

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

There was no change in Kroger’s internal
control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended January 31,
2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, Kroger’s internal control over financial reporting.

M

ANAGEMENT’S

R

EPORT ON

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

The
management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  With
the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission.  Based on this evaluation, our management has
concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of January 31, 2009.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2009, has been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
as stated in their report, which can be found in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER INFORMATION.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

The
information required by this Item not otherwise set forth below is set forth
under the headings Election of Directors and Information Concerning the Board
of Directors in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference
into this Form 10-K.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based
solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms
received by the Company, or written representations from certain persons that
no Forms 5 were required by those persons, the Company believes that during
fiscal year 2008 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors
and 10% beneficial owners were timely satisfied.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages
of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person or those
chosen to become executive officers as of March 31, 2009.  Except as
otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years. 
Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing
year until removed or replaced.




ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION.

The information required by this Item is set
forth in the sections entitled Compensation Discussion and Analysis,
Compensation Committee Report, and Executive Compensation in the definitive
proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The following table provides information
regarding shares outstanding and available for issuance under the Company’s
existing equity compensation plans.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The remainder of the information required by
this Item is set forth in the Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock table in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

This information required by this Item is set
forth in the sections entitled Related Person Transactions and Information
Concerning the Board of Directors-Independence in the definitive proxy
statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES.

The information required by this Item is set
forth in the section entitled Selection of Auditors — Disclosure of Auditor
Fees in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES.


* 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the
capacities indicated on the 31st of March 2009.



EXHIBIT INDEX


* 
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

83