10-K


d10k.htm

THE KROGER CO.

Prepared by R.R. Donnelley Financial -- THE KROGER CO.

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED February 2, 2002.

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-303

THE KROGER CO.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Ohio

31-0345740

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, OH 45202


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code

(513) 762-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

¨

.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

¨

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of
The Kroger Co. held by non-affiliates as of March 11, 2002: $17,882,235,374.


Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act on or before June 2, 2002, incorporated by reference into Parts II and III of Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Kroger Co. (the "Company") was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. As of February 2, 2002, the Company was one of the largest grocery retailers in the United States based on annual sales. The Company also manufactures and
processes food for sale by its supermarkets. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202 and its telephone number is (513) 762-4000.

On May 27, 1999 Kroger issued 312 million shares of Kroger common stock in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer Inc., which operated stores
primarily in the Western region of the United States. The merger was accounted for as pooling of interest, and the accompanying financial statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated results of Kroger and Fred Meyer for all years
presented.

As of February 2, 2002, the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, operated 2,418 supermarkets, most of which
were leased. The Company's current strategy of growth places an emphasis on self-development and ownership of store real estate. Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the Company's three operating formats: combination food and drug stores
("combo stores"); multi-department stores; or price impact warehouse stores. The combo stores are the Company's primary food store format. The combo stores are able to earn a return above the cost of capital by drawing customers from a 2-2


/


mile radius. The Company finds this format to be successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments
that customers desire for one-stop shopping, including "whole health" sections, pharmacies, pet centers and world-class perishables, such as fresh seafood and organic produce. The Company operates its stores under several banners that have strong
local ties and brand equity.

In addition to supermarkets, the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, operated 789
convenience stores, 227 supermarket fuel centers, and 427 fine jewelry Stores. Our subsidiaries owned and operated 694 of the convenience stores while 95 were operated through franchise agreements. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment
of staple food items, general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline. The Company employs approximately 288,000 full and part-time employees.

The Company intends to develop new food and convenience store locations and will continue to assess existing stores as to possible replacement, remodeling, enlarging, or closing.

MERCHANDISING AND MANUFACTURING

Corporate brand
products play an important role in the Company's merchandising strategy. Supermarket divisions typically stock approximately 7,500 private label items. The Company's corporate brand products are produced and sold in three quality "tiers." Private
Selection(R) is the premium quality brand designed to meet or beat the "gourmet" or "upscale" national or regional brands. The "banner brand" (Kroger, Ralphs, King Soopers, etc.), which represents the majority of our private label items, is designed
to be equal or better than the national brand and carries the "Try It, Like It, or Get the National Brand Free" guarantee. FMV (For Maximum Value) is the value brand, which is designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable price.


Approximately two-thirds of the corporate brand units sold are produced in one of the Company's manufacturing plants; the remainder are
produced to strict Company specifications by outside manufacturers. Management performs a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market
purchases. As of February 2, 2002, the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, operated 41 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 15 dairies, 11 deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, five ice cream or beverage plants, three
meat plants, and two cheese plants.

SEGMENTS

The Company operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores in the Midwest, South and West. The Company's retail operations, which represent approximately 99% of
consolidated sales, is its only reportable segment. All of the Company's operations are domestic.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

As of February 2, 2002, the Company operated more than 3,000 owned or leased supermarkets, convenience stores, distribution warehouses, and food processing facilities through divisions, marketing areas, subsidiaries
or affiliates. These facilities are located principally in the Southern, Midwestern, and Western portions of the United States. A majority of the properties used to conduct the Company's business are leased.

The Company generally owns store equipment, fixtures and leasehold improvements, as well as processing and manufacturing equipment. The total cost of
the Company's owned assets and capitalized leases at February 2, 2002 was $15,677 million while the accumulated depreciation was $6,020 million.

Leased premises generally have base terms ranging from ten to twenty-five years with renewal options for additional periods. Some options provide the right to purchase the property after conclusion of the lease term.
Store rentals are normally payable monthly at a stated amount or at a guaranteed minimum amount plus a percentage of sales over a stated dollar volume. Rentals for the distribution, processing and miscellaneous facilities generally are payable
monthly at stated amounts. For additional information on leased premises, see footnote 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On September 13, 1996, a class action lawsuit titled McCampbell, et al. v. Ralphs Grocery Company, et al, was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Diego,
against Ralphs Grocery Company (“Ralphs/Food 4 Less”) and two other grocery store chains operating in the Southern California area. The complaint alleged, among other things, that Ralphs/Food 4 Less and others conspired to fix the retail
price of eggs in Southern California. The plaintiffs claimed that the defendants' actions violated provisions of the California Cartwright Act and constituted unfair competition. The plaintiffs sought damages they purported to have sustained as a
result of the defendants' alleged actions, which damages were subject to trebling under the applicable statute, and an injunction from future actions in restraint of trade and unfair competition. A class was certified consisting of all retail
purchasers of white chicken eggs sold by the dozen in Los Angeles, Riverside, San Diego, San Bernardino, Imperial and Orange counties from September 13, 1992.

The case proceeded to trial before a jury in July and August 1999. On September 2, 1999, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Ralphs/Food 4 Less and against the plaintiffs. Judgment was entered in favor of
Ralphs/Food 4 Less on November 1, 1999. Plaintiffs appealed the judgment and the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment in favor of Ralphs/Food 4 Less. Plaintiffs filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court. That petition was
denied.

There are pending against the Company various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business, including
suits charging violations of certain antitrust and civil rights laws. Some of these suits purport or have been determined to be class actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in antitrust cases will be automatically
trebled. Although it is not possible at this time to evaluate the merits of these claims and lawsuits, nor their likelihood of success, the Company is of the opinion that any resulting liability will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.


PART II

ITEM
5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE

Main trading market—New York Stock Exchange (Symbol KR)

Number of shareowners at year-end 2001: 54,506

Number of shareowners at April 24, 2002: 54,124

Determined by number of shareholders of record

The Company has not paid dividends on its Common Stock for the past three fiscal years. Under the Company's Credit Agreement
dated May 23, 2001, the Company is prohibited from paying cash dividends during the term of the Credit Agreement. The Company is permitted to pay dividends in the form of stock of the Company.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(A)

See Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(B)

The Company is prohibited from paying cash dividends under the terms of its Credit Agreement. The Company is permitted to pay dividends in the form of stock of the Company.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

B

USINESS

C

OMBINATIONS

On May 27, 1999, Kroger issued 312 million shares of Kroger common stock in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer Inc., which operated stores
primarily in the Western region of the United States. The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interest, and the accompanying financial statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated results of Kroger and Fred Meyer for all
years presented.

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

R

EPURCHASE

P

ROGRAM

On January 29, 1997, we began repurchasing common stock in order to reduce dilution resulting from our employee stock option plans. These repurchases
were made using the proceeds, including the tax benefit, from options exercised. The Board of Directors authorized further repurchases of up to $100 million of common stock in October 1997. On October 18, 1998, we rescinded the repurchase program as
a result of execution of the merger agreement between Kroger and Fred Meyer. In December 1999, we began a new program to repurchase common stock to reduce dilution resulting from our employee stock option plans. This program is solely funded by
proceeds from stock option exercises, including the tax benefit. In January 2000, the Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase plan for up to $100 million of common stock. During fiscal 1999, we made open market purchases of
approximately $4 million under the stock option program and $2 million under the $100 million program. On March 31, 2000, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of Kroger common stock. This repurchase program replaced
the $100 million program authorized in January 2000. During fiscal 2000, we made open market purchases of approximately $43 million under the stock option program and $539 million under the $750 million program. On March 1, 2001, the Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of an incremental $1 billion of Kroger common stock. This repurchase program was in addition to the $750 million stock buyback plan. During fiscal 2001, we made open market purchases of approximately $180 million
under the stock option program and $209 million to complete the $750 million program. We also made open market purchases of $343 million under the $1 billion authorization. Purchases of stock under the Board approved repurchase programs are made
when the expected return exceeds our cost of capital.

C

APITAL

E

XPENDITURES

Capital expenditures excluding acquisitions totaled $2.1 billion in 2001 compared to $1.6 billion in 2000 and $1.7 billion in 1999, most amounts were
used to construct new stores. The table below shows our supermarket storing activity:


R

ESULTS

OF

O

PERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes our operating results for 2001 compared to 2000 and 2000 compared to 1999. However, 2001 results are not directly comparable to 2000 results and 2000
results are not directly comparable to 1999 results due to a 53-week year in 2000 and acquisitions.

Sales

Total sales for the 52 weeks of 2001 were $50.1 billion compared to $49.0 billion for the 53 weeks of 2000 and $45.4 billion for the 52 weeks
of 1999. These sales amounts represent annual increases of 2.2% in 2001 and 8.0% in 2000. Excluding sales from divested stores and adjusting for the estimated effect of a 53rd week of sales in 2000, annual increases would have been 4.2% in 2001 and
6.0% in 2000. The weak economy and competitive pressures affected total sales in 2001, while the 2000 increase resulted from strong store operations. Identical food store sales (stores in operation and not expanded or relocated for four full
quarters) increased 0.9% in 2001 and 1.5% in 2000. Comparable food store sales, which include expansions and relocations, increased 1.5% in 2001 and 1.9% in 2000. Excluding sales at supermarket fuel centers, identical food store sales increased 0.4%
and comparable food store sales increased 0.9% in 2001.

Gross Profit

Coordinated purchasing, category management, technology related efficiencies and increases in corporate brand sales have enabled us to increase our
gross profit to 27.35% of sales in 2001, from 26.93% in 2000, and 26.54% in 1999. Excluding one-time expenses (described in “Merger-Related Costs and One-Time Expenses” below) and the effect of LIFO, gross profit as a percent of sales
increased to 27.42% in 2001, from 26.99% in 2000 and 26.60% in 1999.

Operating, General and Administrative Expenses

Operating, general and administrate expenses as a percent of sales were 18.93% in 2001, 18.68% in 2000, and 18.36% in 1999.
Excluding one-time expenses (described in “Merger-Related Costs and One-Time Expenses” below), operating, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales were 18.65% in 2001, 18.46% in 2000 and 18.30% in 1999. These costs as a
percent of sales increased due to higher health care and energy costs in 2001 and 2000. Credit card fees as a percent of sales also increased in 2001. These increased costs offset significant productivity gains at the store level.

EBITDA

Our
bank credit facilities and the indentures underlying our publicly issued debt contain various restrictive covenants. Many of these covenants are based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, LIFO charge, extraordinary loss,
and one-time items (“EBITDA”). The ability to generate EBITDA at levels sufficient to satisfy the requirements of these agreements is a key measure of our financial strength. We do not intend the presentation of EBITDA to be an alternative
to any generally accepted accounting principle measure of performance. Presentation of EBITDA is based on the definition contained in our bank credit facilities. This may be a different definition than other companies use. We were in compliance with
all EBITDA-based bank credit facility and indenture covenants on February 2, 2002.


EBITDA for 2001 increased 5.8% to $3,742 million from $3,536 million in 2000. EBITDA for 2000
increased 13.2% from $3,124 million in 1999, without adjusting for the extra week in 2000. These EBITDA increases were primarily due to economies of scale resulting from increased sales, efficiencies described in “Gross Profit” above,
returns from capital investments and returns from recent acquisitions.

The following is a summary of the calculation of EBITDA
for the 2001, 2000, and 1999 fiscal years:

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate decreased to 39.1% in 2001 from 41.6% in 2000 and 43.5% in 1999. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2000 to 2001 was due to the write-off of
non-deductible goodwill in 2000 and a lower effective state income tax rate in 2001. The decrease from 1999 to 2000 was due primarily to the absence of non-deductible transaction costs in 2000.


Net Earnings

Net earnings and the effects of merger-related costs, one-time expenses and extraordinary losses for the three years ended February 2, 2002, were:

M

ERGER

-R

ELATED

C

OSTS

AND

O

NE

-

TIME

E

XPENSES

We are continuing to implement our integration plan relating
to recent mergers. The integration plan includes distribution consolidation, systems integration, store conversions, store closures and administration integration. Total pre-tax merger-related costs were $4 million in 2001, $15 million in 2000 and
$383 million in 1999.

In addition to merger-related costs that are shown separately on the Consolidated Statement of Income, we
incurred other pre-tax one-time expenses that are included in merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses. One-time expenses in 2001 included $81 million of losses on energy purchase contracts and $20 million of lease
liabilities related to store closings. Expenses in 2000 also included $67 million of lease liabilities for store closings. Remaining one-time expenses incurred during 2001 and 2000, and the 1999 expenses, were costs related to recent mergers.

During 2001 and 2000, we recorded pre-tax impairment charges of $91 million and $191 million, respectively. In 2000, we
performed an impairment review due to new divisional leadership and updated profitability forecasts for 2000 and beyond. In 2001, we performed an impairment review due to recent investments by acquired companies in stores that did not perform as
expected and updated profitability forecasts for 2002 and beyond. In both years we identified impairment losses for assets to be disposed of and assets to be held and used. In 2000, we also identified impairment losses for certain investments in
former suppliers that have experienced financial difficulty and with whom supply arrangements have ceased. The 2001 charge relates to locations that either had not opened, or had only recently opened, when the 2000 impairment review was performed.
As a result, estimates of future operating performance for these locations were not determined at that time.


Kroger also recorded a pre-tax $37 million restructuring charge in 2001 primarily for severance
agreements associated with its Strategic Growth Plan announced in December 2001.

The table below details all of our merger-related costs and one-time
items:

Please refer to footnotes 3, 4, 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements
for more information on these items.

C

RITICAL

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are appropriate to report accurately and fairly our operating results and financial position, and we
apply those accounting policies in a consistent manner. The significant accounting policies are summarized in footnote 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

We believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical in the preparation of our financial statements because they involve the most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

Workers’ Compensation Costs

We primarily are self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation claims. Liabilities are recognized based on claims filed, and
an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. These liabilities are actuarially determined on a discounted basis. We have purchased stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure to any significant exposure on a per claim basis. We are insured for
covered costs in excess of these per claim limits.


The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to a high
degree of unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in such claims can impact amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and
interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how such claims ultimately are settled can impact ultimate costs. Although our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these
variables, such changes could have a considerable impact on future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities.

Asset
Impairments

We monitor the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based on whether
certain trigger events have occurred, such as current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset. When a trigger event occurs, an impairment
calculation is performed, comparing projected undiscounted cash flows utilizing current cash flow information and expected growth rates related to specific stores to the carrying value for those stores. If impairment is identified for long-lived
assets other than real property, we compare discounted future cash flows to the asset’s current carrying value and record impairment when the carrying value exceeds the discounted cash flows. With respect to owned property and equipment
associated with closed stores, the value of the property and equipment is adjusted to reflect recoverable values based on our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions. Impairment is recognized for the excess of
carrying value over estimated fair market value, reduced by estimated direct costs of disposal. Any reductions in the carrying value of assets resulting from the application of this policy are reflected in the income statement as “asset
impairment charges.”

Goodwill

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” became effective for Kroger on February 3, 2002. Adoption of this standard
will change our method of accounting for goodwill, which totaled $3,594 million as of February 2, 2002. Goodwill no longer will be amortized and instead will be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill amortization expense totaled $103
million in 2001. Non-amortization of goodwill will improve fiscal 2002 net earnings by approximately $96 million.

We will
review goodwill for impairment at the operating division level. Generally, fair value will represent a multiple of EBITDA, as defined above in “Results of Operations,” or discounted projected future cash flows and will be compared to the
carrying value of a division for purposes of identifying potential impairment. If potential for impairment is identified, the fair value of a division will be measured against the fair value of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding
goodwill, to estimate an implied fair value of the division’s goodwill. Goodwill impairment will be recognized for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over the implied fair value.

The annual impairment review required by SFAS No. 142 requires extensive uses of accounting judgment and financial estimates. Application of alternative
assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a different organizational level, could produce significantly different results.

We currently are performing our initial goodwill impairment review at the operating division level to determine the effect the adoption of this standard will have on our financial statements.


Store Closing Costs

We provide for closed store liabilities relating to the present value of the estimated remaining noncancelable lease payments after the anticipated closing date, net of estimated
subtenant income. We estimate the net lease liabilities using a discount rate to calculate the present value of the remaining rent payments on closed stores. The closed store liabilities usually are paid over the lease terms associated with the
closed stores, which generally have remaining terms ranging from one to 25 years. As of February 2, 2002, closed store lease liabilities totaled $234 million. For stores we intend to sell, we actively market the stores to potential buyers.
Stores held for disposal are reduced to their estimated net realizable value. The value of any equipment and leasehold improvements related to a closed store is reduced to reflect recoverable values. Although we estimate subtenant income, future
cash flows and asset recovery values based on our experience and knowledge of the market in which the store expected to be closed is located, our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions, the ultimate cost of
disposition for these leases and related assets is affected by specific real estate markets, inflation rates, and general economic conditions.

Store closings generally are completed within one year after the decision to close. Adjustments to closed store liabilities primarily relate to changes in subtenants and actual exit costs differing from original
estimates. Adjustments are made for changes in estimates in the period in which the change becomes known. Any excess store closing liability remaining upon settlement of the obligation is reversed to income in the period that such settlement is
determined. Other costs related to closed store locations are reflected in the income statement as “operating, general and administrative” costs. Reductions in the carrying value of equipment and leasehold improvements related to a closed
store are reflected in the income statement as “asset impairment charges” in accordance with our policy on asset impairments. Inventory write-downs, if any, in connection with store closings, are classified in “merchandise
costs.” Costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores are expensed as incurred. Store closing liabilities are reviewed quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount that is not a sufficient estimate of future costs, or that no
longer is needed for its originally intended purpose, is adjusted to income in the proper period.

Purchase commitments

From time to time, we enter into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials utilized in our
manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in our stores, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. Upon entering into these commitments, and on a quarterly basis thereafter, we evaluate the company’s expectation to take delivery
of and to utilize those resources in the conduct of our normal course of business. Those commitments for which we expect to utilize or take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in our normal course of business qualify as normal purchases and
normal sales. For any commitments for which we do not expect to utilize or take delivery and, as a result, will require net settlement, the contracts are marked to fair value on a quarterly basis.

Benefit Plans

The
determination of our obligation and expense for pension and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on our selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions are described in footnote 18 to the
consolidated financial statements and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rates of increase in compensation and healthcare costs. In accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense and recorded obligation in such future periods. While we believe that our
assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in our actual experience or significant changes in our assumptions materially may affect our pension and


other post-retirement obligations and our future expense.

Footnote 18 to the consolidated financial statements discusses the impact of a 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend
rate on other post-retirement benefit costs and the related liability.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a last-in, first-out, “LIFO”, basis) or market. In total, approximately 94% of
inventories for 2001 and 2000 were valued using the LIFO method. Approximately 61% of inventories in 2001 were valued using the LIFO item-cost method and approximately 33% were valued using the LIFO retail method. We will evaluate the benefits of
converting the remaining divisions to the item-cost method in the near future. Cost for the balance of the inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. Replacement cost was higher than the carrying amount by
$340 million at February 2, 2002, and $319 million at February 3, 2001. We evaluate inventory shortages throughout the year based on actual physical counts in our facilities. We record allowances for inventory shortages based on the results of these
counts to provide for estimated shortages as of the balance sheet date.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues from the sale of products are recognized at the point of sale of our products. Discounts provided to customers at the point of sale are
recognized as a reduction in sales as the products are sold.

Merchandise Costs

Vendor rebates, credits and promotional allowances that relate to our buying and merchandising activities, including lump-sum payments associated with
long-term contracts, are recorded as a component of merchandise costs as they are earned, in accordance with the underlying agreement.

L

IQUIDITY

AND

C

APITAL

R

ESOURCES

Cash Flow
Information

Cash from operations was $2,347 million in 2001 compared to $2,359 million in 2000 and $1,462 million in 1999.
Increased earnings in 2001 were offset by increases in the use of cash for working capital. The increase in 2000 was due to an increase in earnings and our efforts to reduce net operating working capital and improve cash flow.

Cash used by investing activities was $1,965 million in 2001 compared to $1,601 million in 2000 and $1,724 million in 1999. The increase in
2001 was due to increased capital spending. The decrease in 2000 was primarily related to our storing activity and asset acquisitions. During 2001, 2000, and 1999 we had capital expenditures excluding acquisitions of $2,139 million, $1,623 million,
and $1,691 million, respectively. We spent $103 million for acquisitions during 2001 compared to $67 million in 2000 and $230 million in 1999. We opened, acquired, expanded, or relocated 146 food stores in 2001, 150 food stores in 2000, and 197 food
stores in 1999. During those same periods, we remodeled 99, 115, and 142 food stores, respectively.

Cash used by financing
activities was $382 million in 2001 compared to $878 million in 2000. Financing activities provided cash of $280 million in 1999. The decrease in the use of cash in 2001 primarily was due to increased borrowings in 2001, offset by increased treasury
stock purchases. The decrease in cash during 2000 was due to a decrease in the amount borrowed and an increase in the treasury shares purchased during 2000.


Debt Management

We have several lines of credit totaling approximately $3.5 billion. Borrowings of approximately $1.4 billion at February 2, 2002, primarily commercial paper borrowings, reduce the funds
available under our lines of credit. In addition, we are a party to a $393 million synthetic lease credit facility at February 2, 2002, as further described below in “Factors Affecting Liquidity.”

Total debt, including both the current and long-term portions of capital leases, increased $302 million to $8.8 billion in 2001 and decreased $468
million to $8.5 billion in 2000. The increase in 2001 was due to an increase in capital spending, stock repurchase programs and working capital. The decrease in 2000 was due to the use of free cash flow to pay down outstanding debt balances. We
purchased a portion of the debt issued by the lenders of some structured financings in an effort to reduce our effective interest expense. We also prefunded employee benefit costs of $270 million at year-end 2001, $208 million at year-end 2000, and
$200 million at year-end 1999. If we exclude the debt incurred to make these purchases, which we classify as investments, and the prefunding of employee benefits, our net total debt would have been $8.5 billion at year-end 2001, compared to $8.3
billion at year-end 2000 and $8.7 billion at year-end 1999.

In addition to the available credit mentioned above, as of February
2, 2002, we had available for issuance $1.25 billion of securities under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and declared effective on November 13, 2001.

Subsequent Events

On
March 26, 2002, we issued $500 million, 6.75% Senior Notes due in 2012. We also entered into two pay variable interest rate swap agreements, with notional amounts totaling $500 million, expiring in 2012.

Factors Affecting Liquidity

We currently borrow on a daily basis approximately $700 to $900 million under our unrated commercial paper (“CP”) program. These borrowings are backed by our credit facilities, and reduce the amount we can borrow under the credit
facilities. If our credit rating was to decline below its current level of BBB-/Baa3, the ability to borrow under the CP program could be adversely affected, causing us to have to borrow additional funds under the credit facilities. Borrowings under
the credit facilities may be more costly than the money we borrow under our current CP program, depending on the current interest rate environment. However, because our CP program is unrated, we do not anticipate significant difficulties in
continuing our CP program in the event of a downgrade of our rated debt.

Although our ability to borrow under the credit
facilities is not affected by our credit rating, the interest cost on borrowings under the credit facilities would be affected not only by a decrease in our credit rating, but also a decrease in our Applicable Percentage Ratio (the ratio of
consolidated EBITDA to consolidated total interest expense, as defined in the credit facilities). If our credit rating would be downgraded one level or if our Applicable Percentage Ratio were to decrease from 5.98 to 1, at February 2, 2002, to below
4.00 to 1, the cost of our borrowings under the credit facilities would increase at least 0.25%.

If our year-end 2001 net debt
to consolidated EBITDA ratio of 2.34 to 1 were to be higher than 3.50 to 1, or our 2001 fixed charge coverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated EBITDA plus rent expense to consolidated interest expense plus rent expense) of 3.42 to 1 would fall below
1.70 to 1, we would be in default of our credit facilities.


The tables below illustrate our significant contractual and other commercial commitments as of
year-end 2001 (in millions of dollars):

(1)

These borrowings also are included in the long-term debt contractual obligation amounts

(2)

Estimated rent payments of approximately $13 million and $1 million in 2002 and 2003, respectively, are included in the operating lease contractual obligation amounts

Our unconditional purchase obligations include purchase commitments to be utilized in the normal course of
business, such as several contracts to purchase raw materials utilized in our manufacturing plants and several contracts to purchase energy to be used in our stores and manufacturing facilities. These purchase obligations also include management
fees for certain facilities operated by third parties.

We maintain three bank credit facilities. The obligations under the
$1,875 million Senior Credit Facility are guaranteed by Kroger and our “material subsidiaries” as defined in the facility. The revolving portion of the Senior Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including the
support of Fred Meyer’s commercial paper program. This agreement expires in February 2003. We also maintain an $812.5 million facility that expires in May 2006, and an $812.5 million 364-day facility that expires in May 2002. We currently are
involved in negotiations to refinance the current 364-day facility and the $1,875 million Senior Credit Facility with new 364-day and five-year facilities in an aggregate amount not expected to exceed $2.2 billion. Unrated commercial paper
borrowings of $799 million and borrowings under money market lines of $100 million at February 2, 2002, have been classified as long-term because we expect that these borrowings will be refinanced using the same type of securities. Additionally, we
have the ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis and have presented the amounts as outstanding under the credit facilities. Approximately $44 million of the standby letters of credit are backed by our credit facilities, reducing
the borrowing capacity under the credit facilities. Refer to footnote 9 of the financial statements for further details of our debt obligations.

We also maintain in excess of $400 million of surety bonds related primarily to our self-insured insurance costs. These bonds are required by most states in which we are self-insured for workers’ compensation and
general liability exposures, and are made with third-party insurance providers to insure payment of our insurance obligations in the event we are unable to make those payments. These bonds do not represent liabilities of Kroger, as we already have
liabilities on our books for the insurance costs. However, we do pay annual maintenance fees to


have these bonds in place. Market changes may make the surety bonds more costly and, in some instances, availability of these bonds may become more limited, which could affect our costs of or
access to such bonds. Although we do not believe such increased costs or decreased availability significantly would impact our ability to access these surety bonds, if this does become an issue, we likely would issue letters of credit against our
credit facilities to meet the state bonding requirements. This could both increase our costs and decrease the funds available to us under our credit facilities.

Most of our outstanding public debt is jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and certain of its subsidiaries. See footnote 22 to the consolidated
financial statements for a more detailed discussion of those arrangements. In addition, we have guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real estate joint ventures in which we are a partner with 50% ownership. Our share of the responsibility for
this indebtednesss, should these partnerships be unable to meet their obligations, totals approximately $8 million. Based on the covenants underlying this indebtedness as of February 2, 2002, it is unlikely that we will be responsible for repayment
of these obligations.

We also are a party to a financing transaction related to 34 properties which were constructed for total
costs of approximately $393 million. Under the terms of the financing transaction, which was structured as a synthetic lease, a special purpose trust owns the properties and leases them to subsidiaries of Kroger. The lease has a term of five years,
which expires in February 2003. We pay a variable lease rate of approximately 3.3% at February 2, 2002.

The synthetic lease
qualifies as an operating lease and the owner of the special purpose trust has made a substantive residual equity investment. The transaction, therefore, is accounted for off-balance sheet and the related costs are reported as rent expense. As of
February 2, 2002, the assets and liabilities of the special purpose trust primarily were comprised of the properties and $379 million of bank debt used to fund the construction of the properties.

In connection with these financing transactions, we have made a residual value guarantee for the leased property equal to 85% of the financing, or $335 million. We believe the
market values of the property subject to this financing exceeded the residual value guarantee at year-end 2001. We intend to reduce the synthetic lease facility by approximately $200 million in the first quarter 2002.


Commodity Price Protection

We enter into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials utilized in our manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in our stores, manufacturing facilities
and administrative offices. We enter into such commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the conduct of normal business. Those commitments for which we expect to utilize or take delivery in a reasonable amount of
time in the normal course of business qualify as normal purchases and normal sales. For any commitments in which we do not expect to take delivery and, as a result, will require net settlement, the contracts are marked to fair value on a quarterly
basis.

As more fully described below in “Recently Issued Accounting Standards,” we recorded a pre-tax loss of $81
million in the third quarter 2001 to accrue liabilities for the estimated fair values of energy contracts that no longer qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. As of February 2, 2002, these liabilities totaled $78 million.

I

MPACT

OF

I

NFLATION

While management believes that some portion of the increase in sales is due to inflation, it is difficult to segregate and to measure the effects of inflation because of changes in the
types of merchandise sold year-to-year and other pricing and competitive influences. We believe there was overall inflation in retail prices. We experienced deflation in our costs of product of some commodities due to management’s success in
obtaining synergies and the economies of scale resulting from recent mergers. In other commodities such as pharmacy and general merchandise, our costs of product increased. By attempting to control costs and efficiently utilize resources, we strive
to minimize the effects of inflation on operations.

O

THER

I

SSUES

On January 6, 1999, we changed our fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in our Current Report on
Form 8-K dated January 6, 1999. We filed separate audited financial


statements covering the transition period from January 3, 1999, to January 30, 1999, on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 1999. These financial statements included Kroger and its
consolidated subsidiaries before the merger with Fred Meyer. During the transition period we had sales of $2,160 million, costs and expenses of $2,135 million, and net earnings of $25 million.

We indirectly own a 50% interest in the entity that owns the Santee Dairy in Los Angeles, California, and have a product supply agreement with Santee that requires us to purchase 9
million gallons of fluid milk and other products annually. The product supply agreement expires on July 29, 2007. Upon acquisition of Ralphs/Food 4 Less, Santee became excess capacity and a duplicate facility. The joint venture is managed
independently and has a board comprised of an equal number of members from each partner, plus one independent member. When there is a split vote, this member generally votes with the other partner.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,” as amended by SFAS No. 137, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133,” and SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain Derivative
Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,” became effective for Kroger as of February 4, 2001. SFAS No. 133, as amended, defines derivatives, requires that derivatives be carried at fair value on the balance sheet, and provides for hedge
accounting when certain conditions are met. Initial adoption of this new accounting standard resulted in Kroger recording a liability of $9 million, with a corresponding charge recorded as other comprehensive loss, net of income tax effects.

In accordance with SFAS No. 133, derivative financial instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in
the fair value of derivative instruments designated as “cash flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are highly effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. The ineffective portion of the cash flow
hedge, if any, is recognized in current-period earnings. Other comprehensive income is reclassified to current-period earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value
hedges, along with the corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities, are recorded in current-period earnings.

We assess, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether derivatives used as hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flow of hedged items. If it
is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge or ceases to be highly effective, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively.

As of February 2, 2002, we maintain four interest rate swaps and one interest rate collar designated as cash flow hedges of variable rate debt. A liability totaling $11 million has been recorded for these instruments.
We also have recorded a liability of $42 million related to a cash flow hedge of electricity purchases, as more fully described below. Hedge ineffectiveness was not material for these instruments during 2001. Corresponding charges were recorded as
other comprehensive loss, net of income tax effects. In addition, we maintain five interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of fixed rate debt. As of February 2, 2002, a liability totaling $18 million has been recorded to reflect the fair
value of these swaps, offset by an asset for the same amount to reflect the impact of the change in interest rates on the fair value of the debt.

During March through May 2001, Kroger entered into four separate commitments to purchase electricity from one of our utility suppliers in southern California. At the inception of these contracts, forecasted
electricity usage, which was estimated primarily based on historical energy usage, indicated that it was probable that all of the electricity would be utilized in our operations. We, therefore, accounted for the contracts in accordance with the


normal purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133, as amended, and no amounts were recorded in the financial statements related to these purchase commitments.

During the third quarter 2001, we reassessed our projected electricity requirements in southern California. Due primarily to energy
conservation programs initiated by Kroger in the latter half of 2001, we determined that we no longer needed all of the electricity that we had committed to purchase. As a result one of the contracts and a portion of a second contract were deemed to
exceed expected electricity usage, thereby eliminating the normal purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133 for those contracts, and requiring the fair value of the contracts to be recorded currently in earnings. These contracts will
continue to be marked-to-market through current earnings each quarter. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax third quarter charge of $81 million to accrue liabilities for the estimated fair value of these contracts through December 2006. These
liabilities totaled $78 million as of February 2, 2002. The remaining portion of the second contract has been re-designated as a cash flow hedge of future purchases. The other two purchase commitments continue to qualify for the normal purchases and
normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133.

A tabular summary of our interest rate swaps and energy purchase commitments that
are included in the financial statements is included in footnote 20 to the consolidated financial statements.

SFAS No. 141,
“Business Combinations,” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” were issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) in late June of 2001. SFAS No. 141 is effective for all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and SFAS No. 142 became effective for Kroger on February 3, 2002. Goodwill no longer will be amortized and instead will be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. We estimate that non-amortization of
goodwill will improve fiscal 2002 net earnings by approximately $96 million.

Kroger currently is performing its initial
goodwill impairment review at the operating division level to determine the effect the adoption of this standard will have on our financial statements.

SFAS No. 143, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” was issued by the FASB in August of 2001. SFAS No. 143 became effective for Kroger on February 2, 2003. We currently are analyzing the effect this standard will
have on our financial statements.

SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” was
issued by the FASB in August of 2001. SFAS No. 144 became effective for Kroger on February 3, 2002. We expect the adoption of this standard will not have a material effect on our financial statements.

Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue Nos. 00-22, “Accounting for “Points” and Certain Other Time-Based or Volume-Based Sales and
Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to be Delivered in the Future,” and 01-09, “Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products),” became
effective for Kroger beginning in the first quarter of 2002. These issues address the appropriate accounting for certain vendor contracts and loyalty programs. We continue to assess the effect these new standards will have on the financial
statements. We expect the adoption of these standards will not have a material effect on our financial statements.

O

UTLOOK

This analysis contains certain forward-looking statements about Kroger’s future performance. These statements are
based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available. Such statements relate to, among other things: projected growth in earnings per share (“EPS”); working capital reduction; a decline in our
net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio; our ability to generate free cash flow; and our strategic growth plan, and are indicated by words or phrases such as “comfortable,” “committed,” “expects,” “goal,” and similar
words or phrases. These forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Our ability to achieve annual EPS growth goals will be affected primarily by pricing and
promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional food retailers, our responses to these actions intended to increase market share, and the success of our Strategic Growth Plan announced in December 2001. In addition,
Kroger’s EPS growth goals could be affected by: increases in product costs; newly opened or consolidated distribution centers; our ability to obtain sales growth from new square footage; competitive activity in the markets in which we operate;
changes in our product mix; and changes in laws and regulations. Our ability to reduce our net total debt-to-EBITDA ratio could be adversely affected by: our ability to generate sales growth and free cash flow; interest rate fluctuations and other
changes in capital market conditions; Kroger’s stock repurchase activity; unexpected increases in the cost of capital expenditures; acquisitions; and other factors. The results of our Strategic Growth Plan and our ability to generate free cash
flow to the extent expected could be adversely affected if any of the factors identified above negatively impact our operations. In addition, the timing of the execution of the plan could adversely impact our EPS and sales results.

Statements elsewhere in this report and below regarding our expectations, projections, beliefs, intentions or strategies are forward-looking
statements within


the meaning of Section 21 E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we believe that the statements are accurate, uncertainties about the general economy, our labor relations, our ability to
execute our plans on a timely basis and other uncertainties described below could cause actual results to differ materially from those statements. Our forward-looking statements are based on the following assumptions, among others, and if these
assumptions prove to be incorrect, our actual results may be adversely affected:

•

We expect to reduce net operating working capital as compared to the third quarter of 1999 by $500 million by the end of the third quarter 2004. We define net operating working
capital as current operating assets, before LIFO credit, less current operating liabilities. We do not intend the presentation of net operating working capital to be an alternative to any generally accepted accounting principle measure of
performance. Rather we believe this presentation is relevant to an assessment of our operating financial performance for working capital. As of the end of fiscal 2001, net operating working capital has increased $143 million, compared to the fourth
quarter of 2000, but decreased $175 million compared to the fourth quarter of 1999. A calculation of net operating working capital based on our definition as of the fourth quarter 2001, the fourth quarter 2000 and the fourth quarter of 1999 is
provided in the following table:

•

We obtain sales growth from new square footage, as well as from increased productivity from existing locations. During the next two years, Kroger plans to increase square
footage by 3.5%—4.5% year over year. We expect combination stores to increase our sales per customer by including numerous specialty departments, such as pharmacies, natural food products, seafood shops, floral shops, bakeries and fuel centers.
We believe the combination store format will allow us to withstand continued competition from other food retailers, supercenters, mass merchandisers, club or warehouse stores, drug stores and restaurants.

•

On December 11, 2001, Kroger outlined a Strategic Growth Plan that will support additional investment in core business to grow sales and increase market share. We intend to
achieve identical supermarket store sales growth of 2% to 3% above product cost inflation and to reduce merchandising and operating, general and administrative costs by more than $500 million over the next two years. We expect approximately
two-thirds of this reduction will be achieved by the end of fiscal 2002. As part of the plan to reduce operating, general and administrative costs, we have identified approximately 1,500 positions to be eliminated and have merged one division into
two adjacent marketing areas.

As part of the plan, we have
established a long-term, sustainable annual earnings-per-share (“EPS”) growth target of 13%-15%, before one-time items, beginning in fiscal 2004. For fiscal 2002 and 2003, we expect annual EPS growth of 10%-12%, before one-time items. We
also estimate that adoption of SFAS No. 142 will improve fiscal 2002 net earnings by approximately $96 million beyond the expected growth rate of 10%-12%.

Kroger estimates free cash flow to be approximately $550-$650 million in fiscal 2002. The estimate reflects
capital spending of $2.1 billion, which is consistent with prior plans, and a net working capital reduction of $100 million.


We believe the total cost of the Strategic Growth
Plan will be approximately $75 million to $90 million pre-tax, a reduction of $10 million from our original estimate in December 2001. In the fourth quarter 2001, we recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $37 million primarily for severance
agreements associated with this plan. Most of this severance will be paid in 2002.

•

Capital expenditures reflect our strategy of growth through expansion and acquisition as well as our emphasis on self-development and ownership of store real estate, and on
logistics and technology improvements. The continued capital spending in technology focusing on improved store operations, logistics, manufacturing procurement, category management, merchandising and buying practices, should reduce merchandising
costs and operating, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales. We expect our capital expenditures for fiscal 2002 to total $2.1 billion, excluding acquisitions. We intend to use the combination of free cash flows from operations,
including reductions in working capital, and borrowings under credit facilities to finance capital expenditure requirements. If determined preferable, we may fund capital expenditure requirements by mortgaging facilities, entering into
sale/leaseback transactions, or by issuing additional debt or equity.

•

Based on current operating results, we believe that operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and bank credit
facilities, will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, interest payments and scheduled principal payments for the foreseeable future. We also believe we have adequate coverage of our debt covenants
to continue to respond effectively to competitive conditions.

We have identified the following uncertainties
about the future that could have an adverse effect on our actual results:

•

A decline in the generation of sufficient cash flows to support capital expansion plans, share repurchase programs and general operating activities could cause our growth to
slow significantly and may cause us to miss our earnings targets, because we obtain some of our sales growth from new square footage.

•

The grocery retailing industry continues to experience fierce competition from other grocery retailers, supercenters, club or warehouse stores, mass merchandise stores, and
drug stores. Our ability to maintain our current success is dependent upon our ability to compete in this industry and continue to reduce operating expenses. The competitive environment may cause us to reduce our prices in order to gain or maintain
share


of sales, thus reducing margins. While we believe our opportunities for sustained, profitable growth are considerable, unanticipated actions of
competitors could impact our share of sales and net income.

•

Changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and environmental laws may have a material impact on our financial
statements.

•

Changes in the general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including the rate of inflation, population growth, and employment and job growth in the
markets in which we operate may affect our ability to hire and train qualified employees to operate our stores. This would negatively affect earnings and sales growth. General economic changes may also effect the shopping habits of our customers,
which could affect sales and earnings.

•

Changes in our product mix may negatively affect certain financial indicators. For example, we have added and will continue to add supermarket fuel centers. Since gasoline is a
low profit margin item with high sales dollars, we expect to see our gross profit margins decrease as we sell more gasoline. Although this negatively affects our gross profit margin, gasoline is expected to provide a positive effect on EBITDA and
net earnings.

•

We are party to 346 collective bargaining agreements with local unions representing approximately 205,000 employees. During 2001 we negotiated 96 labor contracts without any
material work stoppages. Typical agreements are three to five years in duration and, as agreements expire, we expect to enter new collective bargaining agreements. In 2002, 83 collective bargaining agreements will expire, including the Southern
California Teamsters and Dallas store employees. We also have significant agreements expiring that cover store employees in northeast Indiana, Arkansas, Oregon and North Carolina. We cannot be certain that agreements will be reached without work
stoppage. A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of stores could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations.

•

Our ability to integrate any companies we acquire or have acquired and achieve operating improvements at those companies will affect our operations.

•

We retain a portion of the exposure for our workers’ compensation and general liability claims. It is possible that these claims may cause significant expenditures that
would affect the operating cash flows of the company.

•

Our capital expenditures could fall outside of the expected range if we are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development costs exceed those budgeted,
or if our logistics and technology projects are not completed in the time frame expected or on budget.

•

Adverse weather conditions could increase the costs that our suppliers charge for our products, or may decrease the customer demand for certain products. Additionally,
increases in the costs of inputs, such as utility costs or raw material costs, could negatively impact financial ratios and net earnings.

•

Although we currently operate only in the United States, civil unrest in foreign countries in which our suppliers do business may affect the prices we are charged for imported
goods. If we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, our gross margin and EBITDA will suffer.

•

Interest rate fluctuation and other capital market conditions may cause variability in earnings. Although we use derivative financial instruments to reduce our net exposure to
financial risks, we are still exposed to interest rate fluctuations and other capital market conditions.

•

We cannot fully foresee the effects of the general economic downturn upon Kroger’s business. We have assumed the economic situation and competitive situations will not
change significantly for 2002 and 2003.

Other factors and assumptions not identified above could also cause
actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information. Accordingly, actual events and results may vary significantly from those included in or contemplated or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or
our representatives.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Financial Risk Management

We use derivative financial
instruments primarily to reduce our exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates and, to a lesser extent, adverse fluctuations in commodity prices and other market risks. We do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes. As a matter of policy, all of our derivative positions are intended to reduce risk by hedging an underlying economic exposure. Because of the high correlation between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure, fluctuations in the
value of the instruments generally are offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the underlying exposure. The interest rate derivatives we use are straightforward instruments with liquid markets.

We limit our exposure to interest rates and changes in the fair value of our debt instruments primarily through the strategic use of variable and fixed
rate debt, and interest rate swaps. Our current program relative to interest rate protection contemplates both fixing the rates on variable rate debt and hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in
interest rates. To do this, we use the following guidelines: (i) use average daily bank balance to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the amount of
floating rate debt to a combined total of $2.3 billion or less, (iii) include no leveraged products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.


During the third quarter 2001, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of our
fixed rate debt resulting from interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of our debt from fixed to variable rates. Maturity dates of interest rate swap arrangements match those of the underlying debt. These agreements, which mature
from 2003 to 2008, involve the exchange of fixed rate payments for variable rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts. Variable rates for our agreements are based on three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and are reset on a
quarterly basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with the agreements and is recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.
The notional principal amounts of these interest rate swap arrangements were approximately $1.2 billion at February 2, 2002. These agreements are accounted for as fair value hedges.

Also during the third quarter of 2001, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to cash flows resulting from potential increases in interest rates by
effectively converting a portion of our debt from variable to fixed rates. These agreements, which mature in 2003 and 2004, involve the exchange of variable rate payments for fixed rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal
amounts. Variable rates for our agreements are based on three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and are reset on a quarterly basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with
the agreements and is recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense. The notional principal amounts of these interest rate swap arrangements were approximately $923 million at February 2, 2002. These agreements are
accounted for as cash flow hedges.

Annually, we review with the Financial Policy Committee of our Board of Directors compliance
with the guidelines. In addition, our internal auditors review compliance with these guidelines on at least an annual basis. The guidelines may change as our business needs dictate.

The table below provides information about our interest rate derivatives and underlying debt portfolio. The amount shown for each year represents the contractual maturities of long-term
debt, excluding capital leases, and the outstanding notional amount of interest rate derivatives. Interest rates reflect the weighted average for the outstanding instruments. The variable component of each interest rate derivative and the variable
rate debt is based on LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of February 2, 2002. The Fair-Value column includes the fair-value of those debt instruments for which it is reasonably possible to calculate a fair value and the fair value of our
interest rate derivatives as of February 2, 2002. (Refer to footnotes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements):

*

It was not reasonably possible to calculate a fair value for $664 million of fixed rate debt.


The interest rate collar is reset based on the three month LIBOR with the following impact:

Ÿ

if the three month LIBOR is less than or equal to 4.10%, we pay 5.50% for that three month period;

Ÿ

if the three month LIBOR is greater than 4.10% and less than or equal to 6.50%, we pay the actual interest rate for that three
month period;

Ÿ

if the three month LIBOR is greater than 6.50% and less than 7.50%, we pay 6.50% for that three month period; and

Ÿ

if the three month LIBOR is greater than or equal to 7.50%, we pay the actual interest rate for that three month period.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareowners and Board of Directors

The Kroger Co.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of
income, changes in shareowners' equity (deficit) and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Kroger Co. and its subsidiaries at February 2, 2002 and February 3, 2001, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended February 2, 2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, as of February 4, 2001.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

April 29, 2002


C

ONSOLIDATED

B

ALANCE

S

HEET

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


C

ONSOLIDATED

S

TATEMENT

OF

I

NCOME

Years Ended February 2, 2002, February 3, 2001 and January 29, 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


C

ONSOLIDATED

S

TATEMENT

OF

C

ASH

F

LOWS

Years Ended February 2, 2002, February 3, 2001 and January 29, 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


C

ONSOLIDATED

S

TATEMENT

OF

C

HANGES

IN

S

HAREOWNERS

’ E

QUITY

(D

EFICIT

)

Years Ended February 2, 2002, February 3, 2001 and
January 29, 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


N

OTES

T

O

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

All amounts are in millions except per share amounts.

Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

1.    A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

The following is a summary of the significant accounting policies followed in preparing these financial statements:

Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying financial statements include the consolidated accounts of The Kroger Co. and its subsidiaries (‘‘Kroger’’), and Fred Meyer, Inc. and its subsidiaries (‘‘Fred
Meyer’’) which were merged with a subsidiary of Kroger on May 27, 1999 (See Note 2). Significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.

Transition Period

On January 6, 1999, the Company changed
its fiscal year-end to the Saturday nearest January 31 of each year. This change is disclosed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 6, 1999. The Company filed separate audited financial statements covering the transition
period from January 3, 1999 to January 30, 1999 on a Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 10, 1999. These financial statements include Kroger and its consolidated subsidiaries before the merger with Fred Meyer. During the transition period the
Company had sales of $2,160, costs and expenses of $2,135, and net earnings of $25.

Fiscal Year

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. The last three fiscal years consist of the 52-week period ending February 2,
2002, the 53-week period ending February 3, 2001, and the 52-week period ending January 29, 2000.

Pervasiveness of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of consolidated revenues and
expenses during the reporting period also is required. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a last-in, first-out, ‘‘LIFO’’, basis) or
market. In total, approximately 94% of inventories for 2001 and 2000 were valued using the LIFO method. Approximately 61% of inventories in 2001 were valued using the LIFO item-cost method and approximately 33% were valued using the LIFO retail
method. The Company will evaluate the benefits of converting the remaining divisions to the item-cost method in the near future. Cost for the balance of the inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method.
Replacement cost was higher than the carrying amount by $340 at February 2, 2002, and $319 at February 3, 2001.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The Company evaluates inventory shortages throughout the year based on
actual physical counts in its facilities. Allowances for inventory shortages are recorded based on the results of these counts to provide for estimated shortages as of the balance sheet date.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and
equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation expense, which includes the amortization of assets recorded under capital leases, is computed principally using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of individual assets, or remaining
terms of leases. Buildings and land improvements are depreciated based on lives varying from 10 to 40 years. Equipment depreciation is based on lives varying from three to 15 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over their useful lives, which
vary from four to 25 years. Depreciation expense was $973 in 2001, $907 in 2000, and $847 in 1999.

Interest costs on
significant projects constructed for the Company’s own use are capitalized as part of the costs of the newly constructed facilities. Upon retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
balance sheet and any gain or loss is reflected in earnings.

Goodwill

During 2001, 2000 and 1999, goodwill was generally amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years. Accumulated amortization was approximately $417 at
February 2, 2002, and $314 at February 3, 2001.

Beginning in fiscal 2002, goodwill no longer will be amortized and instead will
be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis at the operating division level. Generally, fair value will represent a multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, LIFO charge, extraordinary loss and one-time items
(“EBITDA”) or discounted projected future cash flows and will be compared to the carrying value of a division for purposes of identifying potential impairment. If potential for impairment is identified, the fair value of a division will be
measured against the fair value of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an implied fair value of the division’s goodwill. Impairment loss will be recognized for any excess of the carrying value of the
division’s goodwill over the implied fair value.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company monitors the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based on whether certain trigger events have
occurred, such as current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset. When a trigger event occurs, an impairment calculation is performed, comparing
projected undiscounted cash flows utilizing current cash flow information and expected growth rates related to specific stores to the carrying value for those stores. If impairment is identified for long-lived assets other than real property,
discounted future cash flows are compared to the asset’s current carrying value and impairment is recorded when the carrying value exceeds the discounted cash flows. With respect to owned property and equipment associated with closed stores,
the value of the property and equipment is adjusted to reflect recoverable values based on previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions. Impairment is recognized for the excess of carrying value over estimated fair
market value, reduced by estimated direct costs of disposal. Any reductions in the carrying value of assets resulting from the application of this policy are reflected in the income statement as “asset impairment charges.”

Interest Rate Protection Agreements

The Company uses derivative instruments primarily to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in interest rates. The interest differential to be paid or received is accrued as interest expense. Changes in derivative
instruments designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent the hedges are highly effective, are recorded in other


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

comprehensive income. Any ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are recognized in
current-period earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, along with corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets of liabilities, are recorded in current period earnings. The
Company’s counter parties are major financial institutions.

Commodity Price Protection

The Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be
used in its stores, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. The Company enters into such commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the conduct of our normal course of business. Those commitments for
which the Company expects to utilize or take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business qualify as normal purchases and normal sales. For any commitments in which the Company does not expect to utilize or take delivery
and, as a result, will require net settlement, the contracts are marked to fair value on a quarterly basis.

Benefit Plans

The determination of the obligation and expense for pension and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the
selection of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Those assumptions are described in footnote 18 and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rates of
increase in compensation and healthcare costs. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect the
recognized expense and recorded obligation in such future periods. While the Company believes that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension
and other post-retirement obligations and future expense.

Deferred Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences of differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their financial
reporting bases. See footnote 8 for the types of differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are classified as a net current or noncurrent asset or liability based on the
classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes. A deferred tax asset or liability that is not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting is classified according to the expected reversal date. A
valuation allowance is recorded for any deferred tax assets considered not likely to be realized.

Store Closing Costs

The Company provides for closed store liabilities relating to the present value of the estimated remaining noncancelable
lease payments after the anticipated closing date, net of estimated subtenant income. Net lease liabilities are estimated using a discount rate to calculate the present value of the remaining rent payments on closed stores. The closed store
liabilities usually are paid over the lease terms associated with the closed stores, which currently have remaining terms ranging from one to 25 years. As of February 2, 2002, closed store lease liabilities totaled $234 million. Stores held for
disposal are reduced to their estimated net realizable value. The value of any equipment and leasehold improvements related to a closed store is reduced to reflect recoverable values.

Store closings generally are completed within one year after the decision to close. Adjustments to closed store liabilities primarily relate to changes in subtenants and actual exit
costs differing from original estimates. Adjustments


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

are made for changes in estimates in the period in which the change becomes known. Any excess
store closing liability remaining upon settlement of the obligation is reversed to income in the period that such settlement is determined. Other costs related to closed store locations are reflected in the income statement as “operating,
general and administrative” costs. Reductions in the carrying value of equipment and leasehold improvements related to a closed store are reflected in the income statement as “asset impairment charges.” Inventory write-downs, if any,
in connection with store closings, are classified in “merchandise costs.” Costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores are expensed as incurred. Store closing liabilities are reviewed quarterly to ensure that any accrued
amount that is not a sufficient estimate of future costs, or that is no longer needed for its originally intended purpose, is adjusted to income in the proper period.

Workers’ Compensation Costs

The Company primarily is
self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation claims. Liabilities are recognized based on claims filed, and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. These liabilities are actuarially determined on a discounted basis. The
Company has purchased stop-loss coverage to limit its exposure to any significant exposure on a per claim basis. The Company is insured for covered costs in excess of these per claim limits.

The assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to a high degree of unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for such claims. For
example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs inherent in such claims can impact amounts realized. Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature and method of how such claims ultimately are
settled, can impact ultimate costs. Although the Company’s estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in historical trends for these variables, such changes could have a considerable impact on future claim costs and
currently recorded liabilities.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues from the sale of products are recognized at the point of sale of the Company’s products. Discounts provided to customers at the point of sale are recognized as a reduction
in sales as the products are sold.

Merchandise Costs

Vendor rebates, credits and promotional allowances that relate to the Company’s buying merchandising activities, including lump-sum payments associated with long-term contracts, are
recorded as a component of merchandise costs as they are earned, in accordance with the underlying agreement.

Advertising
Costs

The Company’s advertising costs, net of vendor allowances for co-operative advertising, are recognized in the
period the related expense is incurred and are included in merchandise costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Advertising expenses amounted to $522 in 2001, $546 in 2000, and $511 in 1999.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be temporary cash investments. Book
overdrafts, which are included in accounts payable, represent disbursements that are funded as the item is presented for payment.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Stock Split

On May 20, 1999, the Company announced a distribution in the nature of a two-for-one stock split, to shareholders of record of common stock on June 7, 1999. All share and per-share amounts in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements have been retroactively restated to give effect to the stock split.

Segments

The Company operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores in the
Midwest, South and West. The Company’s retail operations, which represent approximately 99% of consolidated sales, are its only reportable segment. All of the Company’s operations are domestic.

2.    B

USINESS

C

OMBINATIONS

On May 27, 1999, Kroger issued 312 shares of Kroger common stock in connection with a merger, for all of the outstanding common stock of Fred Meyer, Inc., which operates stores primarily in the Western region of the
United States. The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interest, and the accompanying financial statements have been restated to give effect to the consolidated results of Kroger and Fred Meyer for all years presented.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the consolidated results as follows:

*

The period prior to consummation date represents amounts for the first quarter ended May 22, 1999, as this was the period ended closest to the consummation date.

3.    M

ERGER

-R

ELATED

C

OSTS

Merger Related Costs

We
are continuing to implement our integration plan relating to recent mergers. The integration plan includes distribution consolidation, systems integration, store conversions, transaction costs, store closures, and administration integration. Total
pre-tax merger-related costs incurred were $4 in 2001, $15 in 2000, and $383 in 1999.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The following table presents the components of the merger-related costs:

Distribution Consolidation

Represents costs to consolidate manufacturing and distribution operations and eliminate duplicate facilities. During 1999, approximately $30 of these
costs was recorded as cash was expended. These costs include approximately $20 of Tolleson warehouse expenses. Severance costs of $5 accrued during 1999 related to distribution employees in Phoenix.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Systems Integration

Represents costs of integrating systems and the related conversions of corporate office and store systems. Charges recorded as cash was expended totaled $85 in 1999. These costs represent incremental operating costs,
principally labor, during the conversion process, payments to third parties, and training costs.

Store Conversions

Includes the cost to convert store banners. In 1999, $51 represented cash expenditures, and $10 represented asset
write-offs.

Transaction Costs

Represents fees paid to outside parties, employee bonuses that were contingent upon the completion of the mergers, and an employee stay bonus program. The Company incurred costs totaling $93 in 1999 related primarily
to professional fees and employee bonuses recorded as the cash was expended.

Store Closures

Includes the costs to close stores identified as duplicate facilities and to sell stores pursuant to settlement agreements. 1999 costs of $8 were
accrued to close seven stores identified as duplicate facilities and to sell three stores pursuant to a settlement with the Federal Trade Commission.

Administration Integration

Includes labor and severance costs related to employees
identified for termination in the integration and charges incurred to conform accounting policies. During 2001 and 2000, the Company incurred $4 and $10 resulting from the issuance and revaluation of restricted stock. Restrictions on the stock
awards lapse to the extent that synergy goals are achieved within the time periods specified. All synergy-based awards have been earned provided that recipients are still employed by the Company on the stated restriction lapsing date. Costs in 2000
also included $4 for severance payments recorded as cash was expended. During 1999, these costs represent $19 of severance and travel and consulting services related to integration work; $27 of asset write-downs including video tapes and equipment
used in the Company’s stores; and $47 of accrued expenses. The accrued expenses include an obligation to make a charitable contribution (within seven years from the date of the Fred Meyer merger) as required by the merger agreement, a
restricted stock award related to the achievement of expected merger synergy benefits, and severance costs for certain Fred Meyer executives who informed the Company of their intention to leave, which severance costs have been paid.

A summary of changes in accruals related to various business combinations follows:


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

4.    O

NE

-T

IME

I

TEMS

In addition to the merger-related costs described in Note 4, the Company incurred one-time expenses of $152, $145 and $85
during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These expenses are included in the merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expense lines of the income statement. During 2001, $140 was recorded in the operating, general and
administrative expense line compared to $108 in 2000, and $27 in 1999. The remaining $12 of one-time expenses in 2001 was included in merchandise costs, compared to $37 in 2000 and $58 in 1999. Details of these charges follow:

Costs related to mergers

Approximately $8 related to product costs for excess capacity were included as merchandise costs in 2001. Remaining expenses in 2001, and the expenses
in 2000 and 1999, primarily related to severance agreements and enterprise system and banner conversions.

Lease liabilities

Operating, general and administrative expenses in 2001 and 2000 included $20 and $67, respectively, of accrued expenses
pertaining primarily to the present value of lease liabilities relating to closed stores. Payments of $13 and $10 were made on these accruals in 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Energy contracts

The $81 of expenses accrued in 2001
represents the present value of the ineffective portion of energy purchase contracts. Further details of this charge are included in Note 20. These liabilities had remaining balances of $78 at February 2, 2002.

5.    A

SSET

I

MPAIRMENT

C

HARGES

Due to recent investments by acquired companies in stores that did not perform as expected and updated profitability forecasts for 2002 and beyond, the Company performed an impairment
review of its long-lived assets. During this review, the Company identified impairment losses for both assets to be disposed of and assets to be held and used and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $91 in the third quarter 2001. Details of
these charges are included below. In the first quarter 2000, the Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $191 after identifying impairment losses for assets to be disposed of, assets to be held and used, and certain investments in former
suppliers that had experienced financial difficulty and with whom supply arrangements had ceased. The third quarter, 2001 impairment charge relates to locations that either had not opened, or only recently had opened, as of


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

the first quarter 2000, and, as a result, estimates of future operating performance for these locations were not determined at that time. As a
result, these stores were not considered in the first quarter, 2000 impairment charge.

Assets to be Disposed of

The impairment charges for assets to be disposed of relate primarily to the carrying value of land, buildings and equipment
for stores that have been closed. The impairment charges were determined using the fair value less cost to sell. Fair value less cost to sell used in the impairment calculation was based on third party offers to purchase the assets, or market value
for comparable properties, if available. Accordingly, pre-tax impairment charges related to assets to be disposed of were recognized, reducing the carrying value of fixed assets by $37 in 2001 and $41 in 2000. Goodwill was reduced by $40 in 2000.

Assets to be Held and Used

The impairment charges for assets to be held and used relate primarily to the carrying value of land, buildings, and equipment for stores that will continue to be operated by the Company. Updated projections, based on
revised operating plans, were used, on a gross basis, to determine whether the assets were impaired. Then, discounted cash flows were used to determine the fair value of the assets for purposes of measuring the impairment charge. As a result,
impairment charges related to assets to be held and used were recognized, reducing the carrying value of fixed assets by $54 in 2001 and $47 in 2000. Goodwill was reduced by $40 in 2000.

Other Writedowns

In addition to the approximately $168 of
impairment charges noted above for 2000, the Company recorded a writedown of $23 to reduce the carrying value of certain investments in unconsolidated entities, accounted for on the cost basis of accounting, to reflect reductions in value determined
to be other than temporary. The writedowns related primarily to investments in certain former suppliers that have experienced financial difficulty and with whom supply arrangements have ceased.

6.    R

ESTRUCTURING

C

HARGE

On December 11, 2001, the Company outlined a Strategic Growth Plan that will support additional investment in core business to grow sales, increase market share and reduce merchandising and operating, general and administrative expenses. As
part of the plan to reduce operating, general and administrative costs, the Company has identified approximately 1,500 positions to be eliminated and has merged one division into two adjacent divisions. The Company estimates the total cost of the
Strategic Growth Plan will be approximately $75 to $90 pre-tax, a reduction of $10 from the original estimate in December 2001. In the fourth quarter 2001, the Company recorded a pre-tax restructuring charge of $37 primarily for severance agreements
associated with this plan. Most of this severance will be paid in 2002.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

7.    P

ROPERTY

, P

LANT

A

ND

E

QUIPMENT

, N

ET

Property, plant and equipment, net consists of:

Accumulated depreciation for leased property under capital leases was $181 at
February 2, 2002 and $203 at February 3, 2001.

Approximately $1,282 and $1,044, original cost, of Property, Plant and Equipment
collateralizes certain mortgages at February 2, 2002, and February 3, 2001.

8.    T

AXES

B

ASED

O

N

I

NCOME

The provision for taxes based on income consists of:

A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate and the effective rate follows:


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The tax effects of significant temporary differences that comprise tax balances were as follows:

At February 2, 2002, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for federal
income tax purposes of $416 which expire from 2010 through 2018. In addition, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax purposes of $554 which expire from 2002 through 2021. The utilization of certain of the
Company’s net operating loss carryforwards may be limited in a given year.

The portion of the Company’s valuation
allowance for which subsequently recognized tax benefits would be applied to reduce goodwill is $150. This valuation allowance relates to the acquisition of Ralphs Grocery Company, by a subsidiary of the Company, in 1992.

At February 2, 2002, the Company had federal and state Alternative Minimum Tax Credit carryforwards of $1 and $3, respectively. In addition, the Company
has other state credits of $21, which expire from 2006 through 2012. The utilization of certain of the Company’s credits may be limited in a given year.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

9.    D

EBT

O

BLIGATIONS

Long-term debt consists of:

In conjunction with the acquisitions of QFC and Ralphs/Food 4 Less in March 1998,
Fred Meyer entered into new financing arrangements that refinanced a substantial portion of Fred Meyer’s debt. The Senior Credit Facility provides for a $1,875 five-year revolving credit agreement and a five-year term note. During 2000, the
term note was retired. The obligations under the Senior Credit Facility are guaranteed by some of the Company’s subsidiaries. The revolving portion of the Senior Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including the support
of Fred Meyer’s commercial paper program. Commitment fees are charged at .20% on the unused portion of the five-year revolving credit facility. Interest on the Senior Credit Facility is at adjusted LIBOR plus a margin of .625%. At February 2,
2002, the weighted average interest rate on the amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility was 2.65%. The Senior Credit Facility requires the Company to comply with certain ratios related to indebtedness to earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization, LIFO charge, extraordinary loss, and one-time items (“EBITDA”) and fixed charge coverage. In addition, the Senior Credit Facility limits dividends on and redemption of capital stock. The Company may
prepay the Senior Credit Facility, in whole or in part, at any time, without a prepayment penalty. The Company currently is negotiating to refinance the $1,875 facility in May 2002 with a $700 five-year facility.

The Company also has a $812.5 Five-Year Credit Agreement and a $812.5 364-Day Credit Agreement (collectively the “Credit Agreement”). The
Five-Year facility terminates on May 23, 2006, unless extended or earlier terminated by the Company. The 364-Day facility now terminates on May 23, 2002 unless extended, converted into a one year term loan, or earlier terminated by the Company. The
Company currently is negotiating to refinance the current 364-day facility in May 2002 with a new $1,500, 364-day facility. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear interest at the option of the Company at a rate equal to either (i) the highest,
from time to time, of (A) the base rate of Citibank, N.A., (B)


/


% over a moving average of secondary market morning offering
rates for three-month certificates of deposit adjusted for reserve requirements, and (C)


/


% over the federal funds rate or
(ii) an adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon the London Interbank Offered Rate (“Eurodollar Rate”) plus an Applicable Margin. In addition, the Company pays a Facility Fee in connection with the Credit Facility. Both the Applicable Margin
and the Facility Fee vary based on the Company’s achievement of a financial ratio. At February 2, 2002, the Applicable Margin for the 364-Day facility was .625% and for the Five-Year facility was .60%. The Facility Fee for the 364-Day facility
was .125% and for the Five-Year facility was .15%. The Credit Agreement contains covenants which among other things, restrict dividends and require the maintenance of certain financial ratios, including fixed charge coverage ratios and leverage
ratios. The Company may prepay the Credit Agreement, in whole or in part, at any time, without a prepayment penalty.

Unrated commercial paper borrowings of $799 and borrowings under money market lines of $100 at February 2, 2002, have been classified as long-term because the Company expects that these borrowings will be


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

refinanced using the same type of securities. Additionally, the Company has the ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis and has
presented the amounts accordingly. Such borrowings reduce amounts available under the Credit Agreement or the Senior Credit Facility. The money market lines allow the Company to borrow from the banks at mutually agreed upon rates, usually below the
rates offered under the Senior Credit Facility.

All of the Company’s outstanding public debt is subject to early
redemption at varying times and premiums. In addition, subject to certain conditions, some of the Company’s publicly issued debt will be subject to redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder upon the occurrence of a redemption
event, upon not less than five days’ notice prior to the date of redemption, at a redemption price equal to the default amount, plus a specified premium. “Redemption Event” is defined in the indentures as the occurrence of (i) any
person or group, together with any affiliate thereof, beneficially owning 50% or more of the voting power of the Company or (ii) any one person or group, or affiliate thereof, succeeding in having a majority of its nominees elected to the
Company’s Board of Directors, in each case, without the consent of a majority of the continuing directors of the Company.

The aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term debt, as of year-end 2001, for the years subsequent to 2001 are:


$   410


$1,281


$   290


$   801


$   960

Thereafter

$4,695

The extraordinary losses in 2000 and 1999 relate to premiums paid to retire early
certain indebtedness and the write-off of deferred financing costs.

10.    F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

The Company historically has used derivatives to limit its exposure to rising interest rates. During 1999, as a result of
the merger with Fred Meyer, the nature and magnitude of the Company’s debt portfolio changed significantly, including a permanent reduction in the combined Company’s variable rate borrowings. This fundamental change in the Company’s
debt portfolio resulted in the existing derivative portfolio no longer being aligned with the debt portfolio and prompted the Company to eliminate all existing interest rate swap and cap agreements, at a cost of $17.

Interest Rate Risk Management

As more fully described in Note 20, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended, defines derivatives, requires that derivatives
be carried at fair value on the balance sheet, and provides for hedge accounting when certain conditions are met.

In accordance
with this standard, derivative financial instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as “cash flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are highly effective,
are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. Ineffective portions of


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

cash flow hedges, if any, are recognized in current period earnings. Other comprehensive income is reclassified into current period earnings when
the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, along with corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities, are recorded in current period
earnings.

The Company assesses, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether derivatives used as hedging
instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge or ceases to be highly effective, the Company discontinues hedge
accounting prospectively.

The Company’s current program relative to interest rate protection contemplates both fixing the
rates on variable rate debt and hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in interest rates. To do this, the Company uses the following guidelines: (i) use average daily bank balance to determine
annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit the annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of $2.3 billion or less, (iii) include no leverage products, and (iv)
hedge without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

Annually, the Company reviews with the
Financial Policy Committee of the Board of Directors compliance with the guidelines. In addition, the Company’s internal auditors review compliance with these guidelines on at least an annual basis. These guidelines may change as the
Company’s needs dictate.

The table below summarizes the outstanding interest rate swaps designated as hedges as of
February 2, 2002, and February 3, 2001. The variable component of each interest rate swap outstanding at February 2, 2002, was based on three-month LIBOR. The variable component of each interest rate swap outstanding at February 3, 2001, was based
on one-month LIBOR as of February 3, 2001.

In addition, as of February 2, 2002, the Company has an interest rate collar on a
notional amount of $300 million and a maturity date of July 24, 2003. Every three months, actual three month LIBOR is reviewed and the collar has the following impact on the Company for the notional amount:

•

If the three month LIBOR is less than or equal to 4.10%, the Company pays 5.50% for that three month period;

•

If the three month LIBOR is greater than 4.10% and less than or equal to 6.50%, the Company pays the actual interest rate for that three month period;

•

If the three month LIBOR is greater than 6.50% and less than 7.50%, the Company pays 6.50% for that three month period; and

•

If the three month LIBOR is greater than or equal to 7.50%, the Company pays the actual interest rate for that three month period.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Commodity Price Protection

The Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be
used in its stores, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. The Company enters into such commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the conduct of normal business. Those commitments for which the Company
expects to utilize or take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business qualify as normal purchases and normal sales. For any commitments in which the Company does not expect to take delivery and, as a result, will
require net settlement, the contracts are marked to fair value on a quarterly basis.

As more fully described in Note 20, the
Company recorded a pre-tax loss of $81 in the third quarter 2001, to accrue liabilities for the estimated fair values of energy contracts that no longer qualified for the normal purchases and normal sales exception. As of February 2, 2002, these
liabilities totaled $78.

11.    F

AIR

V

ALUE

O

F

F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate that value:

Cash, Receivables, Prepaid and Other Current
Assets, Accounts Payable, Accrued Salaries and Wages and Other Current Liabilities

The carrying amounts of these items
approximate fair value.

Long-term Investments

The fair values of these investments are estimated based on quoted market prices for those or similar investments.

Long-term Debt

The fair value of the Company’s
long-term debt, including the current portion thereof, is estimated based on the quoted market price for the same or similar issues. The carrying value of $1,368 of long-term debt outstanding under the Company’s Credit Agreement and Senior
Credit Facility approximates fair value.

Interest Rate Protection Agreements

The fair value of these agreements is based on the net present value of the future cash flows using the forward interest rate yield curve in effect at
the respective year-ends.

Commodity Price Protection

The fair value of the energy contracts is based on the net present value of future cash flows using forward market prices for electricity in Southern California in effect at the
respective year-ends.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The estimated fair values of the Company’s financial instruments are as follows:

The use of different assumptions or estimation methodologies may have a material
effect on the estimated fair value amounts. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company actually could realize. In addition, the Company is not subjected to a concentration of credit
risk related to these instruments.

The investments for which it was not practicable to estimate fair value relate to equity
investments accounted for under the equity method and investments in real estate development partnerships for which there is no market. The long-term debt for which it was not practicable to estimate fair value relates to industrial revenue bonds,
certain mortgages and other notes for which there is no market.

12.    L

EASES

The Company operates primarily in leased facilities. Lease terms generally range from 10 to 25 years with options to renew for varying terms. Terms of
certain leases include escalation clauses, percentage rents based on sales, or payment of executory costs such as property taxes, utilities, or insurance and maintenance. Portions of certain properties are subleased to others for periods from one to
20 years.

Rent expense (under operating leases) consists of:


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Minimum annual rentals for the five years subsequent to 2001 and in the
aggregate are:

Total future minimum rentals under noncancellable subleases at February 2, 2002,
were $372.

Additionally, the Company is a party to a financing transaction related to 34 properties that were constructed for
total costs of approximately $393. Under the terms of the financing transaction, which was structured as a synthetic lease, a special purpose trust owns the properties and leases them to subsidiaries of the Company. The lease has a term of five
years, which expires in February 2003. The Company pays a variable lease rate of approximately 3.3% at February 2, 2002.

The
synthetic lease qualifies as an operating lease and the owner of the special purpose trust has made a substantive residual equity investment. The transaction, therefore, is accounted for off-balance sheet and the related costs are reported as rent
expense. Estimated rent payments of $13 and $1 in 2002 and 2003, respectively, are included in the above table. As of February 2, 2002, the assets and liabilities of the special purpose trust primarily were comprised of the properties and $379 of
bank debt used to fund the construction of the properties.

In connection with these financing transactions, the Company has
made a residual value guarantee for the leased property equal to 85% of the financing or $335. The Company believes the market values of the property subject to this financing exceeded the residual value guarantee at February 2, 2002. The Company
intends to reduce the synthetic lease facility by approximately $200 in the first quarter 2002.

13.     E

ARNINGS

P

ER

C

OMMON

S

HARE

Basic earnings per common share equals net earnings divided
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share equals net earnings divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding after giving effect to dilutive stock options and warrants.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The following table provides a reconciliation of earnings before
extraordinary loss and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share to those used in calculating diluted earnings per share.

At February 2, 2002, February 3, 2001 and January 29, 2000, there were options
outstanding for approximately 13.9, 9.6 and 18.2 shares of common stock, respectively, that were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS. These shares were excluded because their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect on EPS.

On May 20, 1999, the Company announced a two-for-one stock split, to shareholders of record of common stock on June 7, 1999.
All share amounts prior to this date have been restated to reflect the split.

14.     S

TOCK

O

PTION

P

LANS

The Company grants options for common stock to employees under various plans, as well as to its
non-employee directors owning a minimum of one thousand shares of common stock of the Company, at an option price equal to the fair market value of the stock at the date of grant. In addition to cash payments, the plans generally provide for the
exercise of options by exchanging issued shares of stock of the Company. At February 2, 2002, 11.6 shares of common stock were available for future options. Options generally will expire 10 years from the date of grant. Options vest in one year to
five years from the date of grant or, for certain options, the earlier of the Company’s stock reaching certain pre-determined market prices or nine years and six months from the date of grant. All grants outstanding become immediately
exercisable upon certain changes of control of the Company.

Changes in options outstanding under the stock option plans,
excluding restricted stock awards, were:


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

A summary of options outstanding and exercisable at February 2, 2002
follows:

The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
‘‘Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,’’ and related interpretations in accounting for its plans. Had compensation cost for the Company’s stock option plans been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date
for awards under these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, ‘‘Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,’’ the Company’s net earnings and diluted earnings
per common share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts below:




Actual

Pro Forma

Actual

Pro Forma

Actual

Pro Forma

Net earnings

$

1,043

$

1,004

$


$


$


$


Diluted earnings per common share

$

1.26

$

1.22

$

1.04

$

0.99

$

0.72

$

0.67

The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on historical assumptions shown in the table below. These amounts reflected in this pro forma disclosure are not indicative of future amounts. The following table reflects the assumptions used for grants
awarded in each year to option holders:




Weighted average expected volatility (based on historical volatility)

29.07

%

27.69

%

26.23

%

Weighted average risk-free interest rate

3.93

%

4.88

%

6.64

%

Expected term

8.3 years

8.1 years

8.0 years

The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
$10.68, $7.48 and $12.93, respectively.

15.    C

OMMITMENTS

AND

C

ONTINGENCIES

The Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best available evidence.

Management believes that allowances for loss have been provided to the extent necessary and that its assessment of contingencies is reasonable. To the
extent that resolution of contingencies results in amounts that vary from management’s estimates, future earnings will be charged or credited.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The principal contingencies are described below:

Insurance

— The Company’s workers’ compensation risks are self-insured in certain states. In addition, other
workers’ compensation risks and certain levels of insured general liability risks are based on retrospective premium plans, deductible plans, and self-insured retention plans. The liability for workers’ compensation risks is accounted for
on a present value basis. Actual claim settlements and expenses incident thereto may differ from the provisions for loss. Property risks have been underwritten by a subsidiary and are reinsured with unrelated insurance companies. Operating divisions
and subsidiaries have paid premiums, and the insurance subsidiary has provided loss allowances, based upon actuarially determined estimates.

Litigation

— The Company is involved in various legal actions arising in the normal course of business. Although occasional adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur, the Company believes that
the final disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Purchase Commitment

— The Company indirectly owns a 50% interest in the Santee Dairy (‘‘Santee’’) and has a product supply agreement with Santee that requires the Company to
purchase 9 million gallons of fluid milk and other products annually. The product supply agreement expires on July 29, 2007. Upon acquisition of Ralphs/ Food 4 Less, Santee became excess capacity and a duplicate facility. The joint venture is
managed independently and has a board comprised of an equal number of members from each partner, plus one independent member. When there is a split vote, this member generally votes with the other partner.

16.    W

ARRANT

D

IVIDEND

P

LAN

On February 28, 1986, the Company adopted a warrant dividend plan providing for stock purchase rights to owners of the Company’s common stock. The plan was amended and restated as
of April 4, 1997, and further amended on October 18, 1998. Each share of common stock currently has attached one-half of a right. Each right, when exercisable, entitles the holder to purchase from the Company one ten-thousandth of a share of Series
A Preferred Shares, par value $100 per share, at $87.50 per one ten-thousandth of a share. The rights will become exercisable, and separately tradable, 10 business days following a tender offer or exchange offer resulting in a person or group having
beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the Company’s common stock. In the event the rights become exercisable and thereafter the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination, each right will entitle the holder to purchase
common stock of the surviving corporation, for the exercise price, having a market value of twice the exercise price of the right. Under certain other circumstances, including certain acquisitions of the Company in a merger or other business
combination transaction, or if 50% or more of the Company’s assets or earnings power are sold under certain circumstances, each right will entitle the holder to receive upon payment of the exercise price, shares of common stock of the acquiring
company with a market value of two times the exercise price. At the Company’s option, the rights, prior to becoming exercisable, are redeemable in their entirety at a price of $0.01 per right. The rights are subject to adjustment and expire
March 19, 2006.

17.    S

TOCK

Preferred Stock

The Company has authorized 5 shares of
voting cumulative preferred stock; 2 were available for issuance at February 2, 2002. Fifty thousand shares have been designated as ‘‘Series A Preferred Shares’’ and are reserved for issuance under the Company’s warrant
dividend plan. The stock has a par value of $100 and is issuable in series.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Common Stock

The Company has authorized 1,000 shares of common stock, $1 par value per share. On May 20, 1999, the shareholders authorized an amendment to the
Amended Articles of Incorporation to increase the authorized shares of common stock from 1,000 to 2,000 when the Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of the Company.

18.    B

ENEFIT

P

LANS

The
Company administers non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all non-union employees and some union-represented employees as determined by the terms and conditions of collective bargaining agreements. Funding for the
pension plans is based on a review of the specific requirements and on evaluation of the assets and liabilities of each plan.

In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain health care benefits for retired employees. The majority of the Company’s employees may become eligible for these benefits if they reach normal retirement age
while employed by the Company. Funding of retiree health care benefits occurs as claims or premiums are paid.

Information with
respect to change in benefit obligation, change in plan assets, net amounts recognized at end of year, weighted average assumptions and components of net periodic benefit cost follow:


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Pension plan assets include $148 and $179 of common stock of The Kroger Co. at February 2, 2002,
and February 3, 2001, respectively

For measurement purposes, a 5 percent annual rate of increase in the per capita
cost of other benefits was assumed for 2001 and 2000.

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension
plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $57, $47 and $0 at February 2, 2002, and $52, $47 and $7 at February 3, 2001.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the
health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

1% Point Increase

1% Point Decrease

Effect on total of service and interest cost components


(3

)

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation


(24

)

The Company also administers certain defined contribution plans for eligible union and non-union
employees. The cost of these plans for 2001, 2000, and 1999, was $19, $45, and $46, respectively.

The Company participates in various multi-employer
plans for substantially all union employees. Benefits are generally based on a fixed amount for each year of service. Contributions for 2001, 2000, and 1999, were $114, $103, and $121, respectively. If the Company were to exit certain markets, it
may be required to pay a potential withdrawal liability if the plans were underfunded at the time of withdrawal. However, the Company is unable to determine this amount at this time. Any adjustments would be recorded at the time markets are exited.

19.    R

ELATED

-P

ARTY

T

RANSACTIONS

The Company had a management agreement for management and financial services with The Yucaipa Companies (‘‘Yucaipa’’), whose
managing general partner became Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board, effective May 27, 1999, but who resigned from the Board of Directors on January 8, 2001.

Yucaipa, or an affiliate or former partner of an affiliate, holds warrants for the purchase of up to 4.3 million shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.91 per share. Of those
warrants, 0.6 million expire in 2005 and 3.7 million expire in 2006. Additionally, at the option of the holder, the warrants are exercisable without the payment of cash consideration. Under this condition, the Company will withhold upon exercise the
number of shares having a market value equal to the aggregate exercise price from the shares issuable.

20.    R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended by SFAS No. 137, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities—Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133,” and SFAS No. 138, “Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,” became effective for the Company as of February
4, 2001. SFAS No. 133, as amended, defines derivatives, requires that derivatives be carried at fair value on the balance sheet, and provides for hedge accounting when certain conditions are met. Initial adoption of this new accounting standard
resulted in the Company recording a liability of $9, primarily related to interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges, with a corresponding charge recorded as other comprehensive loss, net of income tax effects.

In accordance with SFAS No. 133, derivative financial instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments designated as “cash flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are highly effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of related tax effects. The ineffective portion of the cash flow hedge, if any, is
recognized in current-period earnings. Other comprehensive income is reclassified to current-period earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges, along
with the corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities, are recorded in current-period earnings.


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

The Company assesses, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing
basis, whether derivatives used as hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flow of hedged items. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge or ceases to be highly
effective, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively.

As of February 2, 2002, the Company maintains four interest
rate swaps and one interest rate collar designated as cash flow hedges of variable rate debt. A liability totaling $11 has been recorded for these instruments. The Company has also recorded a liability of $42 related to a cash flow hedge of
electricity purchases, as more fully described below. Hedge ineffectiveness was not material for these instruments during 2001. Corresponding charges were recorded as other comprehensive loss, net of income tax effects. In addition, the Company
maintains five interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of its fixed rate debt. As of February 2, 2002, liability totaling $18 has been recorded to reflect the fair value of these swaps, offset by an asset for the same amount to reflect
the impact of the change in interest rates on the fair value of the debt.

During March through May 2001, the Company entered
into four separate commitments to purchase electricity from one of its utility suppliers in southern California. At the inception of the contracts, forecasted electricity usage, which was estimated primarily based on historical energy usage,
indicated that it was probable that all of the electricity would be utilized in the operations of the Company. The Company, therefore, accounted for the contracts in accordance with the normal purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133,
as amended, and no amounts were recorded in the financial statements related to these purchase commitments.

During the third
quarter 2001, the Company reassessed its projected electricity requirements in southern California. Due primarily to energy conservation programs initiated by the Company in the latter half of 2001, the Company determined that it no longer needed
all of the electricity that it had committed to purchase. As a result one of the contracts and a portion of a second contract were deemed to exceed expected electricity usage, thereby eliminating the normal purchases and normal sales exception under
SFAS No. 133 for those contracts, and requiring the fair value of the contracts to be recorded currently in earnings. These contracts will continue to be marked-to-market through current earnings each quarter. Accordingly, the Company recorded a
pre-tax third quarter charge of $81 to accrue liabilities for the estimated fair value of these contracts through December 2006. These liabilities totaled $78 as of February 2, 2002. The remaining portion of the second contract has been
re-designated as a cash flow hedge of future purchases. The other two purchase commitments continue to qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS No. 133.

This table summarizes the interest rate swaps and energy purchase commitments described above that are included in the financial statements as of February 2, 2002.

(1)

Other comprehensive income


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

,
C

ONTINUED

Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue Nos. 00-22, “Accounting for
“Points” and Certain Other Time-Based or Volume-Based Sales and Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services to be Delivered in the Future,” and 01-09, “Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer
(Including a Reseller of the Vendor’s Products),” became effective for The Kroger Co. beginning in the first quarter of 2002. These issues address the appropriate accounting for certain vendor contracts and loyalty programs. The Company
continues to assess the effect these new standards will have on the financial statements. The Company expects the adoption of these standards will not have a material effect on its financial statements.

SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations,” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” were issued by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) in late June of 2001. SFAS No. 141 is effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and SFAS No. 142 became effective for the Company on February 3, 2002. Goodwill no longer will
be amortized and instead will be reviewed for impairment on an annual basis. The Company estimates that non-amortization of goodwill will improve fiscal 2002 net earnings by approximately $96.

The Company currently is performing its initial goodwill impairment review at the operating division level to determine the effect the adoption of this standard will have on its
financial statements.

SFAS No. 143, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” was issued by the FASB in August of 2001. SFAS
No. 143 will become effective for The Kroger Co. on February 2, 2003. The Company currently is analyzing the effect this standard will have on its financial statements.

SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” was issued by the FASB in August of 2001. SFAS No. 144 became effective for The Kroger Co. on
February 3, 2002. The Company expects the adoption of this standard will not have a material effect on its financial statements.

21.    S

UBSEQUENT

E

VENTS

On March 26, 2002, the Company
issued $500, 6.75% Senior Notes due in 2012. The Company also entered into two pay variable interest rate swap agreements, with notional amounts totaling $500, expiring in 2012.

22.    G

UARANTOR

S

UBSIDIARIES

The
Company’s outstanding public debt (the ‘‘Guaranteed Notes’’) is jointly and severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and certain of its subsidiaries (the ‘‘Guarantor
Subsidiaries’’). At February 2, 2002, a total of approximately $6.2 billion of Guaranteed Notes were outstanding. The Guarantor Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Kroger Co. Separate financial
statements of The Kroger Co. and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not presented because the guarantees are full and unconditional and the Guarantor Subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable. The Company believes that separate financial
statements and other disclosures concerning the Guarantor Subsidiaries would not be material to investors.

The non-guaranteeing
subsidiaries represent less than 3% on an individual and aggregate basis of consolidated assets, pretax earnings, cash flow, and equity. Therefore, the non-guarantor subsidiaries’ information is not separately presented in the tables below, but
rather is included in the column labeled ‘‘Guarantor Subsidiaries.’’


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

There are no current restrictions on the ability of the Guarantor
Subsidiaries to make payments under the guarantees referred to above, except, however, the obligations of each guarantor under its guarantee are limited to the maximum amount as will result in obligations of such guarantor under its guarantee not
constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act, or any similar Federal or state law (e.g., adequate capital to pay dividends
under corporate laws).

The following tables present summarized financial information as of February 2, 2002 and February 3,
2001 and for the three years ended February 2, 2002.

Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of February 2, 2002


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

,
C

ONTINUED

Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of February 3, 2001


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Income

For the Year ended February 2, 2002

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Income

For the Year ended February 3, 2001


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Income

For the Year ended January 29, 2000

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 2, 2002


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 3, 2001

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended January 29, 2000


N

OTES

TO

C

ONSOLIDATED

F

INANCIAL

S

TATEMENTS

, C

ONTINUED

23.    Q

UARTERLY

D

ATA

(U

NAUDITED

)


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


PART III

ITEM
10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item
concerning directors is set forth in Item No. 1, Election of Directors, of the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms received by the Company, or written representations from certain persons that no Forms 5 were required for those
persons, the Company believes that during fiscal year 2001 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors and 10% beneficial owners were timely sastified, with two exceptions. Mr. Don McGeorge filed a Form 5 reporting the exercise
during the year by his spouse (a former employee of the Company) of 25,053 stock options and the sale of the underlying stock, that inadvertently were not reported on a prior Form 4 during 2001. Mr. J. Michael Schlotman was eight days late in filing
a Form 4 reporting the exercise of 12,500 stock options and the sale of the underlying stock.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person or those
chosen to become executive officers as of March 11, 2002. Except as otherwise noted below, each person has held office for at least five years. Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing year until removed or
replaced.





ITEM  11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The
information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled Compensation of Executive Officers in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by
reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM  12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item is set forth in the Equity Compansation Plan Information table and the tabulation of the amount and nature of Beneficial Ownership of the
Company's securities in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM  13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is set forth in the section entitled Information Concerning The Board Of Directors—Certain Transactions in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.


PART IV

ITEM
14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)        Financial

Statements:

Report

of Independent Accountants

Consolidated

Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2002 and February 3, 2001

Consolidated

Statement of Income for the years ended February 2, 2002,

February

3, 2001, and January 29, 2000

Consolidated

Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended February 2,

2002,

February 3, 2001, and January 29, 2000

Consolidated

Statement of Changes in Shareowners' Equity (Deficit)

Notes

to Consolidated Financial Statements

Financial

Statement Schedules:

There are no
Financial Statement Schedules included with this filing for the reason that they are not applicable or are not required or the information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto

(b)         Reports

on Form 8-K:

On December 11, 2001,
The Kroger Co. filed a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC disclosing its earnings release for the third quarter 2001, including unaudited financial statements for that quarter.

(c)         Exhibits



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

THE KROGER CO.

Dated:

May 1, 2002

By    (*JosephA.Pichler)

Joseph A. Pichler, Chairman

of the Board of Directors and

Chief Executive Officer

Dated:

May 1, 2002

By    (*J. Michael Schlotman)

J. Michael Schlotman

Group Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Dated:

May 1, 2002

By    (*M. Elizabeth Van Oflen)

M. Elizabeth Van Oflen

Vice President & Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities indicated on the 1st day of May, 2002.


73