10-K


a08-9380_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

THE
KROGER CO.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code

(513) 762-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Title
  of each class

Name
  of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock $1 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of
the Act:

NONE

(Title of class)

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes

o

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§299.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of  “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer”
and “smaller reporting company” in Rule  
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  (Check
one):

Large
  accelerated filer

x

Accelerated
  filer

o

Non-accelerated
  filer (do not check if a smaller reporting company)

o

Smaller
  reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

Yes

o

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the Common Stock of The Kroger Co. held by
non-affiliates as of August 18, 2007: 
$18,043 million.

There
were 661,600,170 shares of Common Stock ($1 par value) outstanding as of March 28,
2008.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Proxy
statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act on or
before June 2, 2008, incorporated by reference into Part III of Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS.

The Kroger Co. was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.
As of February 2, 2008, the Company was one of the largest retailers in
the United States based on annual sales. The Company also manufactures and
processes some of the food for sale in its supermarkets. The Company’s
principal executive offices are located at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio
45202, and its telephone number is (513) 762-4000. The Company maintains a web
site (www.kroger.com) that includes additional information about the Company.
The Company makes available through its web site, free of charge, its annual
reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its
current reports on Form 8-K, including amendments thereto. These forms are
available as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed or
furnished them electronically with the SEC.

The
Company’s revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer products are
sold to customers in its stores. The Company earns income predominantly by
selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of its costs
to make these products available to its customers. Such costs include
procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs,
and overhead expenses.

E

MPLOYEES

The
Company employs approximately 323,000 full and part-time employees. A majority
of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements
negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different
international unions. There are approximately 330 such agreements, usually with
terms of three to five years.

During
fiscal 2008, the Company has major labor contracts covering its store employees
expiring in Columbus, Indianapolis, Las Vegas, Louisville, Nashville, Phoenix
and Portland.  Negotiations in 2008 will
be challenging as the Company must have competitive cost structures in each
market while meeting our associates’ needs for good wages and affordable health
care.

S

TORES

As
of February 2, 2008, the Company operated, either directly or through its
subsidiaries, 2,486 supermarkets and multi-department stores, 696 of which had
fuel centers.  Approximately 43% of these supermarkets were operated in
Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased
land.  The Company’s current strategy emphasizes self-development and
ownership of store real estate.  The Company’s stores operate under
several banners that have strong local ties and brand equity. 
Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats:
combination food and drug stores (“combo stores”); multi-department stores;
marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses.

The
combo stores are the primary food store format.  They are typically able
to earn a return above the Company’s cost of capital by drawing customers from
a 2 – 2½ mile radius.  The Company believes this format is successful
because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that
customers desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic
sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality
perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce.  Many combo stores
include a fuel center.

Multi-department
stores are significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to
the departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell
a wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and
furnishings, electronics, automotive products, toys and fine jewelry. 
Many multi-department stores include a fuel center.

Marketplace
stores are smaller in size than multi-department stores.  They offer full-service grocery and pharmacy
departments as well as an expanded general merchandise area that includes
outdoor living products, electronics, home goods and toys.  Many marketplace stores include a fuel
center.

Price impact warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost”
warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide
selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy,
baked goods and fresh produce items provide a competitive advantage. The
average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo
store.


In addition to supermarkets, the Company operates, either
directly or through subsidiaries, 782 convenience stores and 394 fine jewelry
stores.  Substantially all of our fine jewelry stores are operated in
leased locations.  Subsidiaries operated 691of the convenience stores,
while 91 were operated through franchise agreements. Approximately 50% of the
convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were operated in Company-owned
facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment of staple food
items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline.

S

EGMENTS

The Company operates retail food and drug stores,
multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores throughout the
United States.  The Company’s retail operations, which represent
substantially all of the Company’s consolidated sales, earnings and total
assets, are its only reportable segment.  All of the Company’s operations
are domestic. Revenues, profit and losses, and total assets are shown in the
Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below.

M

ERCHANDISING AND

M

ANUFACTURING

Corporate brand products play an important role in the
Company’s merchandising strategy.  Supermarket divisions typically stock
approximately 14,400 private label items.  The Company’s corporate brand
products are produced and sold in three quality “tiers.” Private Selection is
the premium quality brand designed to be a unique item in a category or to meet
or beat the “gourmet” or “upscale” brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger, Ralphs,
King Soopers, etc.), which represents the majority of the Company’s private
label items, is designed to be equal to or better than the national brand and
carries the “Try It, Like It, or Get the National Brand Free” guarantee. Kroger
Value or local banner name is the value brand, designed to deliver good quality
at a very affordable price.

Approximately 43% of the corporate brand units sold are
produced in the Company’s manufacturing plants; the remaining corporate brand
items are produced to the Company’s strict specifications by outside
manufacturers. The Company performs a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand
products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer
prices versus open market purchases. As of February 2, 2008, the Company
operated 42 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 18 dairies, 11 deli
or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, three beverage plants, three
meat plants and two cheese plants.

E

XECUTIVE

O

FFICERS OF THE

R

EGISTRANT

The disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in
Item 10 of Part III of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive
Officers of the Company,” and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 1A.

RISK
FACTORS.

There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our
business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below.  Please
also see the “Outlook” section in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for
forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our
goals or meet our expectations.

C

OMPETITIVE

E

NVIRONMENT

The operating environment for the food retailing industry
continues to be characterized by intense price competition, aggressive
supercenter expansion, increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of
non-traditional competitors and market consolidation.  We have developed a strategic plan that we
believe is a balanced approach that will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging
needs and expectations of our customers in this challenging economic
environment.  However, the nature and extent to which our competitors
implement various pricing and promotional activities in response to increasing
competition - including our execution of our strategic plan - and our response
to these competitive actions, can adversely affect our profitability.  Our profitability and growth could also be
adversely affected by changes in the overall economic environment that impact
consumer spending, including discretionary spending.

F

OOD

S

AFETY

Customers count on Kroger to provide them with wholesome food
products.  Concerns regarding the safety of food products sold by Kroger
could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek
alternative sources of supply for all of their food needs, even if the basis
for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the
part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  As
such, any issue regarding the safety of any food items sold by Kroger,
regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our
operations.

L

ABOR

R

ELATIONS

A
significant majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including any
work stoppages, could have an adverse impact on our financial results.

We are a party to approximately 330 collective bargaining
agreements.  We have major contracts
expiring in 2008 covering store employees in Columbus, Indianapolis, Las Vegas,
Louisville, Nashville, Phoenix and Portland. 
In future negotiations with labor unions, we expect that rising health
care, pension and employee benefit costs, among other issues, will continue to
be important topics for negotiation. Upon the expiration of our collective
bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur
if we are unable to negotiate acceptable contracts with labor unions. 
This could significantly disrupt our operations. Further, if we are unable to
control health care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility
under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased
operating costs and an adverse impact on future results of operations.

S

TRATEGY

E

XECUTION

Our strategy focuses on improving our customers’ shopping
experience through enhanced service, product selection and value. 
Successful execution of this strategy requires a balance between sales growth
and earnings growth.  Maintaining this strategy requires the ability to
identify and execute plans to generate cost savings and productivity
improvements that can be invested in the merchandising and pricing initiatives
necessary to support our customer-focused programs, as well as recognizing and
implementing organizational changes as required.  If we are unable to
execute our plans, or if our plans fail to meet our customers’ expectations,
our sales and earnings growth expectations could be adversely affected.

DATA AND TECHNOLOGY

Our business is increasingly dependent on information
technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations.  If we were to experience difficulties
maintaining existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur
significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.  Additionally, these systems contain valuable
proprietary data that, if breached, would have an adverse effect on Kroger.


I

NDEBTEDNESS

As of year-end 2007, Kroger’s outstanding indebtedness,
including capital leases and financing obligations, totaled approximately $8.1
billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional
financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us
more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures.  If debt
markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required
to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments
on our indebtedness.  Changes in our
credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse
effect on our financing costs and structure.

L

EGAL

P

ROCEEDINGS

From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings,
including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury,
antitrust claims and other proceedings.  Some of these proceedings,
including product liability cases, could result in a substantial loss to Kroger
in the event that other potentially responsible parties are unable (for
financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered against
them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  While we currently do not expect any outstanding legal
proceedings to have a material effect on the financial condition of Kroger,
unexpected outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations
or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal Proceedings”
section in Item 3 below.

M

ULTI

-E

MPLOYER

P

OST

-R

ETIREMENT

O

BLIGATIONS

As
discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-

Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

,” Kroger
contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations
arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing
employees covered by those agreements.  In addition to future contribution
obligations that Kroger may have under those plans, there is a risk that the
agencies that rate Kroger’s outstanding debt instruments could view the
underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on
the Company’s debt securities.  Any downgrading of Kroger’s debt ratings
likely would increase Kroger’s cost of borrowing.

I

NSURANCE

We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide
for potential liability for workers’ compensation, automobile and general
liability, property, director and officers’ liability, and employee health care
benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree
of variability.   Changes in legal trends and interpretations,
variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims
settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, and
changes in discount rates could all affect ultimate settlements of claims.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

As
of February 2, 2008, the Company operated more than 3,600 owned or leased
supermarkets, convenience stores, fine jewelry stores, distribution warehouses
and food processing facilities through divisions, subsidiaries or affiliates.
These facilities are located throughout the United States. A majority of the
properties used to conduct the Company’s business are leased.

The Company generally owns store equipment, fixtures and
leasehold improvements, as well as processing and manufacturing equipment. The
total cost of the Company’s owned assets and capitalized leases at February 2,
2008, was $22,436 million while the accumulated depreciation was $9,938
million.

Leased
premises generally have base terms ranging from ten-to-twenty years with
renewal options for additional periods. Some options provide the right to
purchase the property after conclusion of the lease term. Store rentals are
normally payable monthly at a stated amount or at a guaranteed minimum amount
plus a percentage of sales over a stated dollar volume. Rentals for the
distribution, manufacturing and miscellaneous facilities generally are payable
monthly at stated amounts. For additional information on lease obligations, see
Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

On
October 6, 2006, the Company petitioned the Tax Court (

In Re: Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries,
formerly known as Ralphs Supermarkets, Inc., Docket No. 20364-06

)
for a redetermination of deficiencies set by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.  The dispute at issue involves a
1992 transaction in which Ralphs Holding Company acquired the stock of Ralphs
Grocery Company and made an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  The Commissioner
has determined that the acquisition of the stock was not a purchase as defined
by Section 338(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and that the
acquisition does not qualify as a purchase. 
The Company believes that it has strong arguments in favor of its
position and believes it is more likely than not that its position will be
sustained.  However, due to the inherent
uncertainty involved in the litigation process, there can be no assurances that
the Tax Court will rule in favor of the Company.  As of February 2, 2008, an adverse
decision would require a cash payment of approximately $419 million including
interest.

On
February 2, 2004, the Attorney General for the State of California filed
an action in Los Angeles federal court (

California,
ex rel Lockyer v. Safeway, Inc. dba Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc.
and Ralphs Grocery Company, a division of The Kroger Co.

, United
States District Court Central District of California, Case No. CV04-0687)
alleging that the Mutual Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between
the Company, Albertson’s, Inc. and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”),
which was designed to prevent the union from placing disproportionate pressure
on one or more of the Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the
other Retailer(s) during the labor dispute in southern California,
violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and
injunctive relief. On May 25, 2005, the Court denied a motion for a
summary judgment filed by the defendants. Ralphs and the other defendants filed
a notice of an interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. On November 29, 2005, the appellate court dismissed the
appeal. On December 7, 2006, the Court denied a motion for summary
judgment filed by the State of California. The Company continues to believe it
has strong defenses against this lawsuit and is vigorously defending it.
Although this lawsuit is subject to uncertainties inherent to the litigation
process, based on the information presently available to the Company,
management does not expect that the ultimate resolution of this action will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

Various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of
business, including suits charging violations of certain antitrust, wage and
hour, or civil rights laws, are pending against the Company. Some of these
suits purport or have been determined to be class actions and/or seek
substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in antitrust cases will be
automatically trebled. Although it is not possible at this time to evaluate the
merits of all of these claims and lawsuits, nor their likelihood of success,
the Company is of the belief that any resulting liability will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.

The Company continually evaluates its exposure to loss
contingencies arising from pending or threatened litigation and believes it has
made adequate provisions therefor. Nonetheless, assessing and predicting the
outcomes of these matters involve substantial uncertainties. It remains
possible that despite management’s current belief, material differences in
actual outcomes or changes in management’s evaluation or predictions could
arise that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial
condition or results of operation.


ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

None.

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

(a)

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

P

RICE

R

ANGE

Main
trading market: New York Stock Exchange (Symbol KR)

Number
  of shareholders of record at year-end 2007:

46,822

Number
  of shareholders of record at March 28, 2008:

46,674

During
fiscal 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy and
paid three quarterly dividends of $0.065 per share.  During fiscal 2007,
the Company paid one and three quarterly dividends of $0.065 and $0.075,
respectively.  On March 1, 2008, the
Company paid its fourth quarterly dividend of $0.075 per share.  On March 13, 2008, the Company announced
that its Board of Directors had increased the quarterly dividend to $.09 per
share, payable on June 1, 2008, to shareholders of record at the close of
business on May 15, 2008.

PERFORMANCE GRAPH

Set forth below is a line graph comparing the five-year
cumulative total shareholder return on Kroger’s common stock, based on the
market price of the common stock and assuming reinvestment of dividends, with
the cumulative total return of companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Stock Index and the Peer Group composed of food and drug companies.

Historically,
our peer group has consisted of the major food store companies.  In recent years there have been significant
changes in the industry, including consolidation and increased competition from
supercenters, drug chains, and discount stores. 
As a result, in 2003 we changed our peer group (the “Peer Group”) to
include companies operating supermarkets, supercenters and warehouse clubs in
the United States as well as the major drug chains with which Kroger competes.


Kroger’s
fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31.

*

Total assumes
$100 invested on February 2, 2003, in The Kroger Co., S&P 500 Index
and the Peer Group, with reinvestment of dividends.

**

The Peer Group
consists of Albertson’s, Inc., Costco Wholesale Corp., CVS Corp, Delhaize
Group SA (ADR), Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company, Inc.,
Koninklijke Ahold NV (ADR), Marsh Supermarkets Inc. (Class A), Safeway, Inc.,
Supervalu Inc., Target Corp., Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Walgreen Co., Whole Foods
Market Inc. and Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. 
Albertson’s, Inc., was substantially acquired by Supervalu in July 2006,
and is included through 2005.  Marsh
Supermarkets was acquired by Marsh Supermarkets Holding Corp. in September 2006,
and is included through 2005.  Winn-Dixie
emerged from bankruptcy in 2006 as a new issue and returns for the old and new
issue were calculated then weighted to determine the 2006 return.

Data supplied by Standard &
Poor’s.

The foregoing Performance
Graph will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any other filing,
absent an express reference thereto.


(c)

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES


ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.


ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

O

UR

B

USINESS

The Kroger Co. was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.
It is one of the nation’s largest retailers, operating 2,486 supermarket and
multi-department stores under two dozen banners including Kroger, Ralphs, Fred
Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith’s, Fry’s, Fry’s Marketplace, Dillons,
QFC and City Market.  Of these stores, 696 have fuel centers.  We
also operate 782 convenience stores and 394 fine jewelry stores.

Kroger
operates 42 manufacturing plants, primarily bakeries and dairies, which supply
approximately 43% of the corporate brand units sold in our retail outlets.

Our
revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to
customers in our stores.  We earn income predominately by selling products
at price levels that produce revenues in excess of our costs to make these
products available to our customers.  Such costs include procurement and
distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead
expenses.  Our operations are reported as a single reportable segment: the
retail sale of merchandise to individual customers.

O

UR

2007 P

ERFORMANCE

2007 was a great year for
Kroger.  Once again, our actual results
compare very favorably to our expectations for the year.

At the outset of fiscal
2007, we expected to grow identical sales, excluding fuel, by 3% to 5%.  We achieved identical sales, excluding fuel,
of 5.3% for fiscal year 2007, exceeding the upper end of our original
guidance.  We are particularly pleased
with such strong identical sales growth in a challenging economic environment,
and we believe this demonstrates the resiliency of our business model.

Kroger’s
initial guidance for fiscal 2007 earnings was a range of $1.60 to $1.65 per
diluted share.  Our 2007 earnings were
$1.69 per diluted share, also exceeding the upper end of our original guidance.  This equates to 15% growth after adjusting
for the extra week in fiscal 2006.  This
growth, plus Kroger’s dividend yield of slightly more than 1%, created strong
value for shareholders.

Kroger’s business model
is structured to produce sustainable earnings per share growth in a variety of
economic and competitive conditions, primarily through strong identical sales
growth.  We recognize that continual
investment in our customers’ shopping experience is necessary to drive strong,
sustainable identical sales growth, and we have the operating cost structure
that allows us to afford those pricing and service investments. We believe that
Kroger’s dividend program and the sustainable earnings per share growth created
by strong identical sales, slight operating margin improvement, and continued
share repurchases is a solid approach to increasing shareholder value.

While the objective of
our business model is to create shareholder value, the objective of Kroger’s
Customer 1

st

strategy is to
serve customers.  Our Customer 1

st

strategy and business model work in tandem to
build our successful business.

Kroger has several
advantages that allow us to grow our business in a competitive industry.  Our strong market share and geographic
diversity are among the most important.  Kroger
serves customers in 44 major markets across 31 different states.  We define a major market as one in which we
operate nine or more stores.  Our broad
geographical diversity enables us to withstand competitive pressures in
multiple markets and to manage unusual economic challenges.  Economic conditions can affect our business,
but our Customer 1

st

strategy and business model allow us to provide
a strong value proposition to customers whose spending may be pinched by
economic pressures.

Market share is critical
to us because it allows us to leverage the fixed costs in our business over a
wider revenue base.  We hold the number
one or number two share position in 39 of our 44 major markets.  Our fundamental operating philosophy is to
maintain and increase market share.

During fiscal 2007, we
grew our market share by roughly 65 basis points in our 44 major markets, based
on our internal data and analysis.  This
was on top of very strong growth in 2005 and 2006.  During the last three fiscal years combined,
Kroger’s share has increased approximately 165 basis points across our major
markets.


R

ESULTS OF

O

PERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes our operating results for
2007 compared to 2006 and for 2006 compared to 2005.  Comparability is
affected by certain income and expense items that fluctuated significantly
between and among the periods.

Net Earnings

Net
earnings totaled $1,181 million for 2007, compared to net earnings totaling
$1,115 and $958 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The increase in our net earnings for 2007,
compared to 2006 and 2005, resulted from spreading fixed costs over our
increased identical sales.  In addition,
2006 net earnings, compared to 2005, increased due to a 53

rd

week in
that year.

Earnings
per diluted share totaled $1.69 in 2007, compared to $1.54 and $1.31 per share
in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Earnings
per diluted share increased 15% after adjusting for the extra week in fiscal
2006.  Net earnings in 2006 benefited
from a 53

rd

week by an estimated $0.07 per share.  Our earnings
per share growth in 2007, 2006 and 2005 resulted from increased net earnings,
strong identical sales growth and the repurchase of Kroger stock.  During
fiscal 2007, we repurchased 53 million shares of Kroger stock for a total
investment of $1,421 million.  During fiscal 2006, we repurchased 29
million shares of our stock for a total investment of $633 million. 
During fiscal 2005, we repurchased 15 million shares of Kroger stock for a
total investment of $252 million.

Sales

Total Sales

(in millions)

(1)  Other sales
primarily relate to sales at convenience stores, including fuel, jewelry stores
and sales by our manufacturing plants to outside firms.

The growth in our total sales was
primarily the result of identical store sales increases and inflation in many
core grocery and perishable categories. 
Increased transaction count and average transaction size were both
responsible for our increases in identical supermarket sales, excluding retail
fuel operations.  After adjusting for the
extra week in fiscal 2006, total sales increased 8.2% in 2007 over fiscal 2006.

We define a supermarket as identical
when it has been in operation without expansion or relocation for five full
quarters.  Differences between total supermarket sales and identical
supermarket sales primarily relate to changes in supermarket square
footage.  Annualized identical supermarket sales include all sales at the
Fred Meyer multi-department stores.  We
calculate annualized identical supermarket sales based on a summation of four
quarters of identical supermarket sales.  Our identical supermarket sales
results are summarized in the table below, based on the 52-week period of 2007,
compared to the same 52-week period of the previous year.  The identical store count in the table below
represents the total number of identical supermarkets as of February 2,
2008 and February 3, 2007.

Identical Supermarket Sales

(in millions)


We define a supermarket as comparable when it has been in
operation for five full quarters, including expansions and relocations.  Annualized comparable supermarket sales
include all Fred Meyer multi-departments.  We calculate annualized comparable
supermarket sales based on a summation of four quarters of comparable
sales.  Our annualized comparable supermarket sales results are summarized
in the table below, based on the 52-week period of 2007, compared to the same
52-week period of the previous year.  The
comparable store count in the table below represents the total number of
comparable supermarkets as of February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007.

Comparable Supermarket Sales

(in millions)

FIFO Gross Margin

We calculate First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) Gross Margin as
follows: Sales minus merchandise costs plus Last-In, First-Out (“LIFO”) charge
(credit).  Merchandise costs include advertising, warehousing and
transportation, but exclude depreciation expense and rent expense. FIFO gross
margin is an important measure used by our management to evaluate merchandising
and operational effectiveness.

Our FIFO gross margin rates were 23.65%, 24.27% and 24.80% in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Retail fuel sales lowered our FIFO
gross margin rate due to the very low FIFO gross margin on retail fuel sales as
compared to non-fuel sales.  Excluding
the effect of retail fuel operations, our FIFO gross margin rates decreased 20
basis points, 26 basis points and 4 basis points in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  The decrease in our
non-fuel FIFO gross margin rate reflects our continued reinvestment of
operating cost savings into lower prices for our customers.

LIFO Charge

The LIFO charge in 2007,
2006, and 2005 was $154 million, $50 million and $27 million, respectively.  Like many food retailers, we continue to
experience product cost inflation at levels that have not occurred for several
years.  We estimate that product cost
inflation was approximately 3% to 3.5% throughout 2007, as compared to
estimated inflation rates that averaged approximately 1% over the previous two
years.  This increase in product cost
inflation caused the increase in the LIFO charge in 2007.

Operating, General and Administrative Expenses

Operating, general and administrative (“OG&A”) expenses
consist primarily of employee-related costs such as wages, health care benefit
costs and retirement plan costs.  Among other items, rent expense,
depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense are not included in
OG&A.

OG&A expenses, as a percent of sales, were 17.31%, 17.91%
and 18.21% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The growth in our retail
fuel sales lowers our OG&A rate due to the very low OG&A rate on retail
fuel sales as compared to non-fuel sales.  OG&A expenses, as a percent
of sales excluding fuel, decreased 33 basis points, 9 basis points and 13 basis
points in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Excluding the effect of
retail fuel operations and expenses recorded for legal reserves, our OG&A
rate declined 16 basis points in 2006. 
The decrease in our OG&A rate in 2007, excluding the effect of
retail fuel operations, was primarily the result of strong identical sales
growth, increased productivity, and progress we have made in controlling our
utility, health care and pension costs. 
These improvements were partially offset by increases in credit card
fees.


Rent Expense

Rent expense was $644 million in 2007, as compared to $649
million and $661 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Rent expense, as
a percent of sales, was 0.92% in 2007, as compared to 0.98% in 2006 and 1.09%
in 2005.  The decrease in rent expense,
as a percent of sales, reflects our increasing sales and our continued emphasis
on owning rather than leasing whenever possible.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation expense was $1,356 million, $1,272 million and
$1,265 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increases in
depreciation and amortization expense were the result of capital expenditures
totaling $2,060 million, $1,777 million and $1,306 million in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.  Depreciation and
amortization expense, as a percent of sales, was 1.93%, 1.92% and 2.09% in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The
increase in our depreciation and amortization expense compared to 2006, as a
percent of sales, is due to an annual depreciation charge in both years with
2006 containing 53 weeks of sales due to the structure of our fiscal calendar.  Excluding the effect of retail fuel
operations, the decrease in our depreciation and amortization expense compared
to 2005, as a percent of sales, is primarily the result of identical store
sales increases.

Interest Expense

Net interest expense totaled $474
million, $488 million and $510 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  The decrease in interest expense was the result of
replacing borrowings with new borrowings at a lower interest rate.  The average total debt balance in 2007 was
comparable to both 2006 and 2005.

Income Taxes

Our effective income tax rate was 35.4%, 36.2% and 37.2% for
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The effective tax rates for 2007 and
2006 differ from the expected federal statutory rate due to the resolution of
certain tax issues and an adjustment of certain deferred tax balances,
respectively.  In addition, the effective
income tax rates differ from the expected federal statutory rate in all years
presented due to the effect of state taxes.

During the third quarter of 2007, we resolved favorably certain
tax issues.  This resulted in a 2007 tax
benefit of approximately $40 million and reduced our effective rate by 1.9%.

In 2006, during the reconciliation of our deferred tax
balances, and after the filing of our annual federal and state tax returns, we
identified adjustments to be made in the previous years’ deferred tax
reconciliation.  We corrected these
deferred tax balances in our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year
ended February 3, 2007, which resulted in a reduction of our fiscal 2006
provision for income tax expense of approximately $21 million and reduced the
rate by 1.2%.  We do not believe these
adjustments are material to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the year
ended February 3, 2007, or to any prior years’ Consolidated Financial
Statements.  As a result, we have not
restated any prior year amounts.

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

R

EPURCHASE

P

ROGRAM

We maintain stock
repurchase programs that comply with Securities Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1
and allow for the orderly repurchase of our common stock, from time to
time.  We made open market purchases totaling $1,151 million, $374 million
and $239 million under these repurchase programs during fiscal 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively.  In addition to these repurchase programs, in December 1999
we began a program to repurchase common stock to reduce dilution resulting from
our employee stock option plans.  This program is solely funded by
proceeds from stock option exercises, and the tax benefit from these
exercises.  We repurchased approximately $270 million, $259 million and
$13 million under the stock option program during 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.


C

APITAL

E

XPENDITURES

Capital expenditures, including changes in
construction-in-progress payables and excluding acquisitions, totaled $2,060
million in 2007 compared to $1,777 million in 2006 and $1,306 million in
2005.  The increase in capital spending in 2007 compared to 2006 and 2005
was the result of increasing our focus on remodels, merchandising and
productivity projects.  The table below shows our supermarket storing
activity and our total food store square footage:

Supermarket Storing Activity

C

RITICAL

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are
appropriate to report accurately and fairly our operating results and financial
position, and we apply those accounting policies in a consistent manner. 
Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and
expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. 
We base our estimates on historical experience and other factors we believe to
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results could differ from
those estimates.

We
believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical in the
preparation of our financial statements because they involve the most
difficult, subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are
inherently uncertain.

Self-Insurance Costs

We
primarily are self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation and
general liability claims.  The liabilities represent our best estimate,
using generally accepted actuarial reserving methods, of the ultimate
obligations for reported claims plus those incurred but not reported for all
claims incurred through February 2, 2008.  We establish case reserves
for reported claims using case-basis evaluation of the underlying claim data
and we update as information becomes known.

For
both workers’ compensation and general liability claims, we have purchased
stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure to any significant exposure on a per
claim basis.  We are insured for covered costs in excess of these per
claim limits.  We account for the liabilities for workers’ compensation
claims on a present value basis utilizing a risk-adjusted discount rate. 
A 25 basis point decrease in our discount rate would increase our liability by
approximately $3 million.  General liability claims are not discounted.

We
are also similarly self-insured for property-related losses.  We have
purchased stop-loss coverage to limit our exposure to losses in excess of $25
million on a per claim basis, except in the case of an earthquake, for which
stop-loss coverage is in excess of $50 million per claim, up to $200 million
per claim in California and $300 million outside of California.


The
assumptions underlying the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to
a high degree of unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for
such claims.  For example, variability in inflation rates of health care
costs inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized. 
Similarly, changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in
the nature and method of how claims are settled can affect ultimate
costs.  Our estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate
significant changes in historical trends for these variables, and any changes
could have a considerable effect on future claim costs and currently recorded
liabilities.

Impairments of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

, we monitor the
carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based
on whether certain trigger events have occurred.  These events include
current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing
losses or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset.  When a
trigger event occurs, we perform an impairment calculation, comparing projected
undiscounted cash flows, utilizing current cash flow information and expected
growth rates related to specific stores, to the carrying value for those
stores.  If we identify impairment for long-lived assets to be held and
used, we compare discounted future cash flows to the asset’s current carrying
value.  We record impairment when the carrying value exceeds the
discounted cash flows.  With respect to owned property and equipment held
for disposal, we adjust the value of the property and equipment to reflect
recoverable values based on our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets
and current economic conditions.  We recognize impairment for the excess
of the carrying value over the estimated fair market value, reduced by
estimated direct costs of disposal.  We
recorded asset impairments in the normal course of business totaling $24
million, $61 million, and $48 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  We record costs to reduce
the carrying value of long-lived assets in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as “Operating, general and administrative” expense.

The
factors that most significantly affect the impairment calculation are our
estimates of future cash flows.  Our cash flow projections look several
years into the future and include assumptions on variables such as inflation,
the economy and market competition.  Application of alternative
assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing long-lived assets for impairment
at a different organizational level, could produce significantly different
results.

Goodwill

We review goodwill for impairment during the fourth quarter
of each year, and also upon the occurrence of trigger events.  We perform
reviews at the operating division level.  Generally, fair value is
determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted projected future cash
flows, and we compare fair value to the carrying value of a division for
purposes of identifying potential impairment.  We base projected future
cash flows on management’s knowledge of the current operating environment and
expectations for the future.  If we identify potential for impairment, we
measure the fair value of a division against the fair value of its underlying
assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an implied fair value
of the division’s goodwill.  We recognize goodwill impairment for any
excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over the implied fair
value.  If actual results differ significantly from anticipated future
results for certain reporting units, we would need to recognize an impairment
loss for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over the
implied fair value.  Results of the
goodwill impairment reviews performed during 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized
in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The annual impairment review requires the extensive use of
accounting judgment and financial estimates.  Application of alternative
assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a
different organizational level, could produce significantly different
results.  Similar to our policy on impairment of long-lived assets, the
cash flow projections embedded in our goodwill impairment reviews can be
affected by several items such as inflation, the economy and market
competition.

Intangible Assets

In addition to goodwill, we have recorded intangible assets
totaling $32 million, $24 million and $34 million for leasehold equities,
liquor licenses and pharmacy prescription file purchases, respectively, at February 2,
2008.  Balances at February 3, 2007, were $26 million, $22 million
and $28 million for lease equities, liquor licenses and pharmacy prescription
files, respectively.  We amortize
leasehold equities over the remaining life of the lease.  We do not
amortize owned liquor licenses, however, we amortize liquor licenses that must
be renewed over their useful lives.  We amortize pharmacy prescription
file purchases over seven years.  We consider these assets annually during
our testing for impairment.


Store Closing Costs

We provide for closed store liabilities relating to the
present value of the estimated remaining noncancellable lease payments after
the closing date, net of estimated subtenant income.  We estimate the net
lease liabilities using a discount rate to calculate the present value of the
remaining net rent payments on closed stores.  We usually pay closed store
lease liabilities over the lease terms associated with the closed stores, which
generally have remaining terms ranging from one to 20 years.  Adjustments
to closed store liabilities primarily relate to changes in subtenant income and
actual exit costs differing from original estimates.  We make adjustments
for changes in estimates in the period in which the change becomes known. 
We review store closing liabilities quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount
that is not a sufficient estimate of future costs, or that no longer is needed
for its originally intended purpose, is adjusted to earnings in the proper
period.

We
estimate subtenant income, future cash flows and asset recovery values based on
our experience and knowledge of the market in which the closed store is
located, our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic
conditions.  The ultimate cost of the disposition of the leases and the
related assets is affected by current real estate markets, inflation rates and
general economic conditions.

We
reduce owned stores held for disposal to their estimated net realizable
value.  We account for costs to reduce the carrying values of property,
equipment and leasehold improvements in accordance with our policy on
impairment of long-lived assets.  We classify inventory write-downs in
connection with store closings, if any, in “Merchandise costs.”  We
expense costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores as they
are incurred.

Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

(a) Company-sponsored
Pension Plans

We account for our pension plans using the recognition and
disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 99, 106 and 132(R)

, which
require the recognition of the funded status of retirement plans on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet.  We record,
as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), actuarial
gains or losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations that
have not yet been recognized.  We
currently use a December 31 measurement date.  Effective for 2008, the statement also
requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of
its year-end statement of financial position. 
We will adopt the measurement date change in fiscal 2008.

The determination of our obligation and expense for
Company-sponsored pension plans and other post-retirement benefits is dependent
upon our selection of assumptions used by actuaries in calculating those
amounts.  Those assumptions are described in Note 14 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets, average life expectancy and the rate
of increases in compensation and health care costs.  Actual results that
differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods
and, therefore, generally affect our recognized expense and recorded obligation
in future periods.  While we believe that our assumptions are appropriate,
significant differences in our actual experience or significant changes in our
assumptions, including the discount rate used and the expected return on plan
assets, may materially affect our pension and other post-retirement obligations
and our future expense.  Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
discusses the effect of a 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend rate
on other post-retirement benefit costs and the related liability.

The
objective of our discount rate assumption is to reflect the rate at which the
pension benefits could be effectively settled.  In making this
determination, we take into account the timing and amount of benefits that
would be available under the plans. Our methodology for selecting the discount
rate as of year-end 2007 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a yield
curve that provides the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each
maturity. Benefit cash flows due in a particular year can be “settled”
theoretically by “investing” them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in the
same year. The discount rate is the single rate that produces the same present
value of cash flows. The selection of the 6.50% discount rate as of year-end
2007 represents the equivalent single rate under a broad-market AA yield curve
constructed by an outside consultant.  We
utilized a discount rate of 5.90% for year-end 2006.  The 60 basis point
increase in the discount rate decreased the projected pension benefit
obligation as of February 2, 2008, by approximately $184 million.


To
determine the expected return on pension plan assets, we consider current and
forecasted plan asset allocations as well as historical and forecasted returns
on various asset categories.  For 2007 and 2006, we assumed a pension plan
investment return rate of 8.5%.  Our pension plan’s average return was
8.5% for the 10 calendar years ended December 31, 2007, net of all
investment management fees and expenses.  Our actual return for the
pension plan calendar year ending December 31, 2007, on that same basis,
was 9.5%.  We believe the pension return assumption is appropriate because
we expect that future returns will achieve the same level of performance as the
historical average annual return.  We have been advised that during 2008,
the trustees plan to increase the allocation of non-core assets, including high
yield debt securities, commodities, hedge funds and real estate from 42% to
52%.  The trustees have also indicated that they plan to increase hedge
funds within these sectors from 17% to 22% to augment risk and return. 
Collectively, these changes should improve the diversification of pension plan
assets.  The trustees have advised us that they expect these changes will
have little effect on the total return but will reduce the expected volatility
of the return.  See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
more information on the asset allocations of pension plan assets.

Sensitivity
to changes in the major assumptions used in the calculation of Kroger’s pension
plan liabilities for the Qualified Plans is illustrated below (in millions).

Percentage

Point Change

Projected Benefit

Obligation

Decrease/(Increase)

Expense

Decrease/(Increase)

Discount Rate

+/- 1.0

%

$

263/$(320

)

$

27/$(27

)

Expected Return
  on Assets

+/- 1.0

%

—

$

19/$(19

)

We
contributed $52 million and $150 million to our Company-sponsored pension plans
in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  Although we are not required to make cash
contributions to our Company-sponsored pension plans during fiscal 2008,
contributions may be made if required under the Pension Protection Act to avoid
any benefit restrictions.  We expect any elective contributions made
during 2008 will decrease our required contributions in future years. 
Among other things, investment performance of plan assets, the interest rates
required to be used to calculate the pension obligations, and future changes in
legislation, will determine the amounts of any additional contributions.

Net periodic benefit cost
decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 and 2005 due to participants in the Cash
Balance formula of the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan being moved to a
401(k) retirement savings account plan effective January 1,
2007.  Participants under that formula
continue to earn interest on prior contributions but no additional pay credits
will be earned.  The 401(k) retirement
savings plan provides to eligible employees both matching contributions and
automatic contributions from Kroger based on participant contributions, plan
compensation, and length of service.  We
contributed and expensed $90 million to employee 401(k) retirement savings
accounts in 2007.

(b) Multi-Employer
Plans

We
also contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on obligations
arising from most of our collective bargaining agreements.  These plans
provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service to
contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in trust
for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by employers and
unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for determining the level
of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for such matters as the
investment of the assets and the administration of the plans.

We
recognize expense in connection with these plans as contributions are funded,
in accordance with GAAP.  We made contributions to these plans, and
recognized expense, of $207 million in 2007, $204 million in 2006, and $196
million in 2005.


Based
on the most recent information available to us, we believe that the present
value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most or all of these multi-employer
plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay
benefits.  We have attempted to estimate the amount by which these
liabilities exceed the assets, (i.e., the amount of underfunding), as of December 31,
2007.  Because Kroger is only one of a number of employers contributing to
these plans, we also have attempted to estimate the ratio of Kroger’s
contributions to the total of all contributions to these plans in a year as a way
of assessing Kroger’s “share” of the underfunding.  As of December 31,
2007, we estimate that Kroger’s share of the underfunding of multi-employer
plans to which Kroger contributes was $500 million to $700 million, pre-tax, or
$315 million to $440 million, after-tax.  This represents a decrease in
the amount of underfunding estimated as of December 31, 2006.  This
decrease is attributable to, among other things, the investment returns on
assets held in trust for the plans during 2007. 
Our estimate is based on the best information available to us including
actuarial evaluations and other data (that include the estimates of others),
and such information may be outdated or otherwise unreliable.  Our
estimate is imprecise and not necessarily reliable.

We
have made and disclosed this estimate not because this underfunding is a direct
liability of Kroger.  Rather, we believe the underfunding is likely to
have important consequences. In 2007, our contributions to these plans
increased approximately 1% over the prior year and have grown at a compound
annual rate of approximately 5% since 2004.  We expect our contributions
to remain consistent subject to collective bargaining and capital market
conditions.  The projected contribution
amounts in 2008 and beyond has been favorably affected by significant
improvement in the values of assets held in trusts, by the labor agreements
negotiated in recent years, and by related trustee actions.  Although
underfunding can result in the imposition of excise taxes on contributing
employers, increased contributions or benefit reductions can reduce
underfunding so that excise taxes are not triggered.  Our estimate
contemplates neither increased contributions or reduced benefits. 
Finally, underfunding means that, in the event we were to exit certain markets
or otherwise cease making contributions to these funds, we could trigger a
substantial withdrawal liability. Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will
be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably
estimated, in accordance with SFAS No. 87,

Employers’ Accounting for Pensions

.

The
amount of underfunding described above is an estimate and is disclosed for the
purpose described.  The amount could decline, and Kroger’s future expense
would be favorably affected, if the values of net assets held in the trust
significantly increase or if further changes occur through collective
bargaining, trustee action or favorable legislation.  On the other hand,
Kroger’s share of the underfunding would increase and Kroger’s future expense
could be adversely affected if net asset values decline, if employers currently
contributing to these funds cease participation or if changes occur through
collective bargaining, trustee action or adverse legislation.

Deferred Rent

We recognize rent holidays, including the time period during
which we have access to the property for construction of buildings or
improvements, as well as construction allowances and escalating rent provisions
on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  The deferred amount
is included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Effective
February 4, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an
interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

(“FIN No. 48”),
which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or
expected to be taken in a tax return. 
This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition,
classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure, and transition.

Various
taxing authorities periodically audit our income tax returns.  These audits
include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and
amount of deductions and the allocation of income to various tax
jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposures connected with these various
tax filing positions, including state and local taxes, we record allowances for
probable exposures.  A number of years may elapse before a particular
matter, for which we have established an allowance, is audited and fully
resolved.  As of February 2, 2008, the Internal Revenue Service has
concluded an examination for tax years 2002 through 2004.

The
assessment of our uncertain tax positions relies on the judgment of management
to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. 
Although management believes those estimates and judgments are reasonable,
actual results could differ, resulting in gains or losses that may be material
to our Consolidated Statements of Operations.


To
the extent that we prevail in matters for which allowances have been
established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of these allowances, our
effective tax rate in any given financial statement period could be materially
affected.  An unfavorable tax settlement could require use of cash and
result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the year of
resolution.  A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction
in our effective tax rate in the year of resolution.

Share-Based Compensation Expense

We
account for share-based compensation expense in accordance with the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment.

Under this method, we recognize compensation expense for all share-based
payments granted on or after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based
payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, in
accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). 
Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), we
recognize share-based compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture
rate, over the requisite service period of the award.

Prior to January 29, 2006, we applied APB No. 25,
and related interpretations, in accounting for our stock option plans and
provided the pro-forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.  APB No. 25 provided for recognition of
compensation expense for employee stock awards based on the intrinsic value of
the award on the grant date.

Inventories

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a LIFO basis) or market. 
In total, approximately 97% and 98% of inventories for 2007 and 2006,
respectively, were valued using the LIFO method. Cost for the balance of the
inventories was determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. 
Replacement cost was higher than the carrying amount by $604 million at February 2,
2008, and by $450 million at February 3, 2007.  We follow the
Link-Chain, Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of calculating our LIFO
charge or credit.

We
follow item-cost method of accounting to determine inventory cost before the
LIFO adjustment for substantially all store inventories at our supermarket
divisions.  This method involves counting each item in inventory,
assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual purchase costs (net
of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and recording the cost of
items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting allows for more accurate
reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables management to more precisely
manage inventory and purchasing levels when compared to the methodology
followed under the retail method of accounting.

We evaluate inventory shortages throughout the year based on
actual physical counts in our facilities.  We record allowances for
inventory shortages based on the results of recent physical counts to provide
for estimated shortages from the last physical count to the financial statement
date.

Vendor Allowances

We
recognize all vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs when the related
product is sold.  In most cases, vendor allowances are applied to the
related product by item, and therefore reduce the carrying value of inventory
by item.  When it is not practicable to allocate vendor allowances to the
product by item, we recognize vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise
costs based on inventory turns and as the product is sold.   We
recognized approximately $3.6 billion, $3.3 billion and $3.2 billion of vendor
allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  We recognized more than 85% of all vendor allowances in the
item cost with the remainder being based on inventory turns.


L

IQUIDITY AND

C

APITAL

R

ESOURCES

Cash Flow Information

Net cash provided by operating activities

We
generated $2,581 million of cash from operations in 2007 compared to $2,351
million in 2006 and $2,192 million in 2005.  The increase in cash
generated from operating activities was primarily due to strong operating
results adjusted for non-cash expenses. 
In addition, changes in our operating assets and liabilities also affect
the amount of cash provided by our operating activities.  We realized a
$163 million, $129 million and $121 million decrease in cash from changes in
operating assets and liabilities in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The decrease in 2007 is primarily
attributable to an increase in forward inventory buying activity.  These amounts are also net of cash
contributions to our Company-sponsored pension plans totaling $52 million in
2007, $150 million in 2006 and $300 million in 2005.

The
amount of cash paid for income taxes in 2007 was higher than the amounts paid
in 2006 and 2005 due to higher net earnings.

Net cash used by investing activities

Cash used by investing activities was $2,218 million in 2007,
compared to $1,587 million in 2006 and $1,279 million in 2005.  The amount
of cash used by investing activities increased in 2007 compared to 2006 and
2005 due primarily to higher capital spending and payments for two
acquisitions.  Capital expenditures,
including changes in construction-in-progress payables and excluding
acquisitions, were $2,060 million, $1,777 million and $1,306 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively.  Refer to the Capital Expenditures section for an
overview of our supermarket storing activity during the last three years.

Net cash used by financing activities

Financing
activities used $310 million of cash in 2007 compared to $785 million in 2006
and $847 million in 2005.  The decrease in the amount of cash used was
primarily a result of proceeds received from the issuance of long term-debt,
offset by greater stock repurchases and dividends paid.  We repurchased $1,421 million of Kroger stock
in 2007 compared to $633 million in 2006 and $252 million in 2005. We paid
dividends totaling $202 million in 2007 compared to $140 million in 2006.

Debt Management

Total
debt, including both the current and long-term portions of capital leases and
financing obligations, increased $1,062 million to $8.1 billion as of year-end
2007 from $7.1 billion as of year-end 2006.  Total debt decreased $173
million to $7.1 billion as of year-end 2006 from $7.2 billion as of year-end
2005.  The increases in 2007, compared to 2006, resulted from the issuance
of $600 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.4%, $750 million
of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 6.15% and borrowings under the bank
credit facility in 2007, offset by the repayment of $200 million of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 7.65% and $300 million of senior notes bearing an
interest rate of 7.80% that came due in 2007. 
The decreases in 2006, compared to 2005, were primarily the result of
using cash flow from operations to reduce outstanding debt.

Our
total debt balances were also affected by our prefunding of employee benefit
costs and by the mark-to-market adjustments necessary to record fair value
interest rate hedges of our fixed rate debt, pursuant to SFAS No. 133

Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging
Activities

, as amended.  We had prefunded employee benefit
costs of $300 million at year-end 2007, 2006 and 2005.  The mark-to-market
adjustments increased the carrying value of our debt by $44 million and $18
million as of year-end 2007 and 2006.


Factors Affecting Liquidity

We
currently borrow on a daily basis approximately $250 million under our F2/P2/A3
rated commercial paper (“CP”) program.  These borrowings are backed by our
credit facility, and reduce the amount we can borrow under the credit
facility.  We have capacity available under our credit facility to
backstop all CP amounts outstanding.  If our credit rating declines below
its current level of BBB/ Baa2/BBB-, the ability to borrow under our current CP
program could be adversely affected for a period of time immediately following
the reduction of our credit rating.  This could require us to borrow
additional funds under the credit facility, under which we believe we have
sufficient capacity.  However, in the event of a ratings decline, we do
not anticipate that access to the CP markets currently available to us would be
significantly limited for an extended period of time (i.e., in excess of 30
days).  Although our ability to borrow under the credit facility is not
affected by our credit rating, the interest cost on borrowings under the credit
facility could be affected by a decrease in our credit rating or a decrease in
our Applicable Percentage Ratio.

Our
credit facility also requires the maintenance of a Leverage Ratio and a Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio (our “financial covenants”).  A failure to maintain
our financial covenants would impair our ability to borrow under the credit
facility. These financial covenants and ratios are described below:

Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in our credit facility,
includes an adjustment for unusual gains and losses.  Our credit agreement
is more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  We were in compliance with our financial covenants at
year-end 2007.


The tables below illustrate our significant contractual
obligations and other commercial commitments, based on year of maturity or settlement,
as of February 2, 2008 (in millions of dollars):

(1)

The contractual obligations table excludes funding of
pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, which totaled
approximately $76 million in 2007. This table also excludes contributions under
various multi-employer pension plans, which totaled $207 million in 2007.

(2)

We adopted FIN 48 on February 4, 2007. See Note 4
to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the adoption of FIN 48. The
liability related to unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the
contractual obligations table because a reasonable estimate of the timing of
future tax settlements cannot be determined.

(3)

Amounts include contractual interest payments using
the interest rate as of February 2, 2008 applicable to our variable
interest debt instruments, excluding commercial paper borrowings due to the
short-term nature of these borrowings, and stated fixed and swapped interest
rates for all other debt instruments.

(4)

The amounts included in the contractual obligations
table for self-insurance liability have been stated on a present value basis.

Our construction commitments include funds owed to third
parties for projects currently under construction.  These amounts are
reflected in other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Our
purchase obligations include commitments to be utilized in the normal course of
business, such as several contracts to purchase raw materials utilized in our
manufacturing plants and several contracts to purchase energy to be used in our
stores and manufacturing facilities.  Our obligations also include
management fees for facilities operated by third parties.  Any upfront
vendor allowances or incentives associated with outstanding purchase
commitments are recorded as either current or long-term liabilities in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of February 2,
2008, we maintained a $2.5 billion, five-year revolving credit facility that,
unless extended, terminates in 2011. 
Outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement and commercial paper
borrowings, and some outstanding letters of credit, reduce funds available
under the credit agreement. In addition to the credit agreement, we maintained
four money market lines totaling $125 million in the aggregate.  The money market lines allow us to borrow
from banks at mutually agreed upon rates, usually at rates below the rates
offered under the credit agreement.  As
of February 2, 2008, we had net outstanding commercial paper and
borrowings under our credit agreement totaling $345 and $225 million,
respectively, that reduced amounts available under our credit agreement and had
no borrowings under the money market lines. The outstanding letters of credit
that reduced the funds available under our credit agreement totaled $355
million as of February 2, 2008.


In
addition to the available credit mentioned above, as of February 2, 2008,
we had available for issuance $1,250 million of securities under a shelf
registration statement filed with the SEC and effective on December 20,
2007.

We
also maintain surety bonds related primarily to our self-insured workers
compensation claims.  These bonds are required by most states in which we
are self-insured for workers’ compensation and are placed with third-party
insurance providers to insure payment of our obligations in the event we are
unable to meet our claim payment obligations up to our self-insured retention
levels.   These bonds do not represent liabilities of Kroger, as we
already have reserves on our books for the claims costs.  Market changes may make the surety bonds more
costly and, in some instances, availability of these bonds may become more
limited, which could affect our costs of, or access to, such bonds. 
Although we do not believe increased costs or decreased availability would
significantly affect our ability to access these surety bonds, if this does
become an issue, we would issue letters of credit, in states where allowed,
against our credit facility to meet the state bonding requirements.  This
could increase our cost and decrease the funds available under our credit
facility.

Most
of our outstanding public debt is jointly and severally, fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of our
subsidiaries.  See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
more detailed discussion of those arrangements.  In addition, we have
guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real estate entities in which we
have 50% membership interest.  Our share of the responsibility for this
indebtedness, should the entities be unable to meet their obligations, totals
approximately $7 million.  Based on the covenants underlying this
indebtedness as of February 2, 2008, it is unlikely that we will be
responsible for repayment of these obligations. 
We have also agreed to guarantee, up to $10 million, the indebtedness of
an entity of which we have 25% membership interest.  The guarantee is collateralized by inventory
of the entity.  Our share of the
responsibility, as of February 2, 2008, should the entity be unable to
meet its obligations, totals approximately $9 million and is collateralized by
$8 million of inventory located in our stores.

We
also are contingently liable for leases that have been assigned to various
third parties in connection with facility closings and dispositions.  We could
be required to satisfy obligations under the leases if any of the assignees are
unable to fulfill their lease obligations.  Due to the wide distribution
of our assignments among third parties, and various other remedies available to
us, we believe the likelihood that we will be required to assume a material
amount of these obligations is remote.  We have agreed to indemnify
certain third-party logistics operators for certain expenses, including pension
trust fund withdrawal liabilities.

In
addition to the above, we enter into various indemnification agreements and
take on indemnification obligations in the ordinary course of business. 
Such arrangements include indemnities against third party claims arising out of
agreements to provide services to Kroger; indemnities related to the sale of
our securities; indemnities of directors, officers and employees in connection
with the performance of their work; and indemnities of individuals serving as
fiduciaries on benefit plans.  While Kroger’s aggregate indemnification
obligation could result in a material liability, we are not aware of any
current matter that could result in a material liability.

R

ECENTLY

A

DOPTED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

Effective February 4,
2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109

(“FIN No. 48”), which prescribes a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return.  This interpretation also
provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.

The effect
of adoption was to increase retained earnings by $4 million and to decrease our
accrual for uncertain tax positions by a corresponding amount.  Additionally, we decreased goodwill and
accrual for uncertain tax positions by $72 million to reflect the measurement
under the rules of FIN No. 48 of an uncertain tax position related to
previous business combinations.

As of
adoption, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax
positions, including positions affecting only the timing of tax benefits, was
$694 million.  The amount of unrecognized
tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $119
million.

To the
extent interest and penalties would be assessed by taxing authorities on any
underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued and classified as a
component of income tax expense in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of
Operations.  This accounting policy
election is a continuation of our historical policy.  As of February 4, 2007, the amount of
accrued interest and penalties included on the Condensed Consolidated Balance
Sheets was $118 million.


The IRS
concluded a field examination of our 2002 – 2004 U.S. tax returns during the
third quarter of 2007.  An examination of
our 1999 – 2001 U.S. tax returns was completed in 2005.  We contested two issues at the appellate
level of the IRS.  One of the issues was
resolved in the third quarter of 2007 and we anticipate that the remaining
issue may be resolved within the next 12 months.  In the opinion of management, the ultimate
disposition of the item noted above will not have a significant effect on our
consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations.  Additionally, we have a case in the U.S. Tax
Court.  A decision on this case is not expected
within the next 12 months.  In connection
with this case, we have extended the statute of limitations on our tax years
after 1991.

As a result of
settlements with taxing authorities during the third quarter, we reclassified
unrecognized tax benefits of $168 million from other long-term liabilities to
deferred income taxes and accrued taxes payable.

Effective
February 3, 2007, we adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of
SFAS No. 158,

Employers’ Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 87, 99, 106 and 132(R),

which requires the
recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or
losses, prior service costs or credits and transition obligations that have not
yet been recognized are required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”).

We currently use a December 31
measurement date.  Effective for 2008,
the statement also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan
as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position.  We will adopt the measurement date change in
fiscal 2008.

Effective January 29,
2006, we adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

using the
modified-prospective method.  Under this
method, we recognize compensation expense for all share-based awards granted
prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, based on the grant
date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

For all share-based awards granted on or
after January 29, 2006, we recognize compensation expense based on the
grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurement

.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands
disclosures about fair value measurement. 
SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements.  SFAS No. 157 will become effective for
our fiscal year beginning February 3, 2008.  We are evaluating the effect the
implementation of SFAS No. 157 will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,

The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities-Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.

SFAS No. 159 permits entities
to make an irrevocable election to measure certain financial instruments and
other assets and liabilities at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument
basis.  Unrealized gains and losses on
items for which the fair value option has been elected should be recognized
into net earnings at each subsequent reporting date.  SFAS No. 159 will become effective for
our fiscal year beginning February 3, 2008.  We are currently evaluating the effect the
adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51.

SFAS No. 160 will require the
consolidation of noncontrolling interests as a component of equity.  SFAS No. 160 will become effective for
our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the effect the
adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),

Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R)

,
which replaces SFAS No. 141

.

SFAS No. 141R further expands
the definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.

SFAS No. 141R will become
effective for our fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  We are currently evaluating the effect the
adoption of SFAS No. 141R will have on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
March 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

SFAS No. 161 requires
enhanced disclosures on an entity’s derivative and hedging activities.

SFAS
No. 161 will become effective for our fiscal year beginning February 1,
2009.  We are currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS No. 161 will have on our Consolidated
Financial Statements.


O

UTLOOK

This discussion and analysis contains certain
forward-looking statements about Kroger’s future performance. These statements
are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of the information
currently available. Such statements relate to, among other things: projected
change in net earnings; identical sales growth; expected pension plan
contributions; our ability to generate operating cash flow; projected capital
expenditures; square footage growth; opportunities to reduce costs; cash flow
requirements; and our operating plan for the future; and are indicated by words
such as “comfortable,” “committed,” “will,” “expect,” “goal,” “should,” “intend,”
“target,” “believe,” “anticipate,” and similar words or phrases. These
forward-looking statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially.

Statements elsewhere in this report and below regarding our
expectations, projections, beliefs, intentions or strategies are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21 E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we believe that the statements are
accurate, uncertainties about the general economy, our labor relations, our
ability to execute our plans on a timely basis and other uncertainties
described below could cause actual results to differ materially.


Various uncertainties and other factors could cause us to
fail to achieve our goals. These include:


Other
factors and assumptions not identified above could also cause actual results to
differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information.
Accordingly, actual events and results may vary significantly from those
included in, contemplated or implied by forward-looking statements made by us
or our representatives.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Financial Risk Management

We use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage
our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and, to a lesser extent, adverse
fluctuations in commodity prices and other market risks.  We do not enter
into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.  As a matter
of policy, all of our derivative positions are intended to reduce risk by
hedging an underlying economic exposure.  Because of the high correlation
between the hedging instrument and the underlying exposure, fluctuations in the
value of the instruments generally are offset by reciprocal changes in the
value of the underlying exposure.  The interest rate derivatives we use
are straightforward instruments with liquid markets.

We
manage our exposure to interest rates and changes in the fair value of our debt
instruments primarily through the strategic use of variable and fixed rate
debt, and interest rate swaps.  Our current program relative to interest
rate protection contemplates hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value
of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in interest rates.  To do this,
we use the following guidelines: (i) use average daily outstanding
borrowings to determine annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit
the average annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the amount
of floating rate debt to a combined total of $2.5 billion or less, (iii) include
no leveraged products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or
sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

As
of February 2, 2008, we maintained six interest rate swap agreements, with
notional amounts totaling approximately $1,050 million, to manage our exposure
to changes in the fair value of our fixed rate debt resulting from interest
rate movements by effectively converting a portion of our debt from fixed to
variable rates.  These agreements mature at varying times between March 2008
and January 2015.  The differential between fixed and variable rates
to be paid or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with
the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense.  These interest rate
swap agreements are being accounted for as fair value hedges.  As of February 2,
2008, other long-term assets totaling $11 million were recorded to reflect the
fair value of these agreements, offset by increases in the fair value of the
underlying debt.

In
addition to the interest rate swaps noted above, in 2005 the Company entered
into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a notional
amount totaling $750 million.  In 2007, the Company terminated two of
these forward-starting interest rate swaps in a notional amount of $500
million.  A forward-starting interest rate
swap is an agreement that effectively hedges future benchmark interest rates on
debt for an established period of time.  The Company entered into the
forward-starting interest rate swaps in order to lock into fixed interest rates
on forecasted issuances of debt in 2007 and 2008.  The unamortized payment and proceeds on the
two terminated forward-starting interest rate swaps have been recorded net of
tax in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to earnings as the
payments of interest to which the hedges relate are made.  The one
remaining forward-starting interest rate swap as of February 2, 2008 has a
ten-year term with a fixed interest rate of 5.11%.  As of February 2, 2008, other long-term
liabilities totaling $18 million were recorded to reflect the fair value of
this agreement.

During
2003, we terminated six interest rate swap agreements that we accounted for as
fair value hedges.  We recorded approximately $114 million of proceeds
received as a result of these terminations as adjustments to the carrying
values of the underlying debt and they are being amortized over the remaining
lives of the debt.  As of February 2, 2008, the unamortized balances
totaled approximately $33 million.

Annually,
we review with the Financial Policy Committee of our Board of Directors
compliance with the guidelines.  The guidelines may change as our business
needs dictate.


The
tables below provide information about our interest rate derivatives and
underlying debt portfolio as of February 2, 2008.  The amounts shown
for each year represent the contractual maturities of long-term debt, excluding
capital leases, and the average outstanding notional amounts of interest rate
derivatives as of February 2, 2008.  Interest rates reflect the
weighted average rate for the outstanding instruments.  The variable
component of each interest rate derivative and the variable rate debt is based
on U.S. dollar LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of February 2,
2008.  The Fair-Value column includes the fair-value of our debt
instruments and interest rate derivatives as of February 2, 2008. 
Refer to Notes 5, 6 and 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements:

We expect the average pay
rate for 2008 to decline from the table above by 40 to 50 basis points due to
the recent Federal Reserve interest rate cuts in March 2008.

Commodity Price
Protection

We
enter into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials
utilized in our manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in our stores,
warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. We enter into
commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the
conduct of normal business. Those commitments for which we expect to utilize or
take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business
qualify as normal purchases.

Some
of the product we purchase is shipped in corrugated cardboard packaging. 
We sell corrugated cardboard when it is economical to do so. As of February 2,
2008, we maintained three derivative instruments to manage exposure to changes
in corrugated cardboard prices.  These derivatives contain a three-year
term.  The instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting, in accordance
with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for
Derivative Investments and Hedging Activities

, as amended. 
Accordingly, changes in the fair value of these instruments are
marked-to-market in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in OG&A
expenses.  As of February 2, 2008, an accrued liability totaling $1
million had been recorded to reflect the fair value of these instruments.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareowners and
Board of Directors of

The Kroger Co.:

In our opinion, the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of operations, cash flows and changes in shareowners’ equity present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Kroger Co. and
its subsidiaries at February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended February 2, 2008

in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of February 2, 2008, based on
criteria established in

Internal Control -
Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 15
to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of
Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

, as of February 4,
2007, the recognition and disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 158,

Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,

as of February 3, 2007 and the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment

,
as of January 29, 2006.

A company’s internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

April 1, 2008


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Years
Ended February 2, 2008, February 3, 2007, and January 28, 2006

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years
Ended February 2, 2008, February 3, 2007 and January 28, 2006

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS’ EQUITY

Years
Ended February 2, 2008, February 3, 2007 and January 28, 2006

Comprehensive
income:

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

All
dollar amounts are in millions except share and per share amounts.

Certain prior-year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

1.

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

The following is a summary of the significant
accounting policies followed in preparing these financial statements.

Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and
Principles of Consolidation

The
Kroger Co. (the “Company”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. 
As of February 2, 2008, the Company was one of the largest retailers in
the United States based on annual sales.  The Company also manufactures
and processes food for sale by its supermarkets.  The accompanying
financial statements include the consolidated accounts of the Company and its
subsidiaries.  Significant intercompany transactions and balances have
been eliminated.

Fiscal Year

The
Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31.  The
last three fiscal years consist of the 52-week period ended February 2,
2008, the 53-week period ended February 3, 2007, and the 52-week period
ended January 28, 2006.

Pervasiveness of
Estimates

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. 
Disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the
consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of consolidated
revenues and expenses during the reporting period also is required. 
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash and temporary
cash investments

Cash and temporary cash
investments represent store cash, escrow deposits and Euros held to settle
Euro-denominated contracts. In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 52,

Foreign
Currency Translation,

the Company valued its carrying amount of
Euros at the spot rate as of February 2, 2008.

Inventories

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a last-in, first-out “LIFO”
basis) or market.  In total, approximately 97% and 98% of inventories for
2007 and 2006, respectively, were valued using the LIFO method.  Cost for
the balance of the inventories, including substantially all fuel inventories,
was determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method.  Replacement
cost was higher than the carrying amount by $604 at February 2, 2008 and
$450 at February 3, 2007.  The Company follows the Link-Chain,
Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of calculating its LIFO charge or credit.

The
item-cost method of accounting to determine inventory cost before the LIFO
adjustment is followed for substantially all store inventories at the Company’s
supermarket divisions.  This method involves counting each item in
inventory, assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual purchase
costs (net of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and recording
the cost of items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting allows for
more accurate reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables management
to more precisely manage inventory when compared to the retail method of accounting.

The
Company evaluates inventory shortages throughout the year based on actual
physical counts in its facilities.  Allowances for inventory shortages are
recorded based on the results of these counts to provide for estimated
shortages as of the financial statement date.


Property, Plant and
Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at
cost.  Depreciation expense, which includes the amortization of assets
recorded under capital leases, is computed principally using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of individual assets. Buildings and land
improvements are depreciated based on lives varying from 10 to 40 years. All
new purchases of store equipment are assigned lives varying from three to nine
years. Some store equipment acquired as a result of the Fred Meyer merger was
assigned a 15-year life. The life of this equipment was not changed.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease term to
which they relate, which varies from four to 25 years, or the useful life of
the asset.  Manufacturing plant and distribution center equipment is
depreciated over lives varying from three to 15 years. Information technology
assets are generally depreciated over five years.  Depreciation and
amortization expense was $1,356 in 2007, $1,272 in 2006 and $1,265 in 2005.

Interest
costs on significant projects constructed for the Company’s own use are
capitalized as part of the costs of the newly constructed facilities.  Upon
retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation
are removed from the balance sheet and any gain or loss is reflected in net
earnings.

Deferred Rent

The Company recognizes rent holidays,
including the time period during which the Company has access to the property
for construction of buildings or improvements and escalating rent provisions on
a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  The deferred amount is
included in Other Current Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities on the
Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Goodwill

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment
during the fourth quarter of each year, and also upon the occurrence of trigger
events.  The reviews are performed at the operating division level. 
Generally, fair value is determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted
projected future cash flows, and is compared to the carrying value of a
division for purposes of identifying potential impairment.  Projected
future cash flows are based on management’s knowledge of the current operating
environment and expectations for the future.  If potential for impairment
is identified, the fair value of a division is measured against the fair value
of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an
implied fair value of the division’s goodwill.  Goodwill impairment is
recognized for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over
the implied fair value.  Results of the goodwill impairment reviews
performed during 2007, 2006 and 2005 are summarized in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Intangible Assets

In addition to goodwill, the Company has
recorded intangible assets totaling $32, $24 and $34 for leasehold equities,
liquor licenses and pharmacy prescription file purchases, respectively at February 2,
2008.  Balances at February 3, 2007 were $26, $22 and $28 for
leasehold equities, liquor licenses and pharmacy prescription files,
respectively.  Leasehold equities are amortized over the remaining life of
the lease.  Owned liquor licenses are not amortized, while liquor licenses
that must be renewed are amortized over their useful lives.  Pharmacy
prescription file purchases are amortized over seven years.  These assets
are considered annually during the Company’s testing for impairment.


Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets

, the Company monitors the carrying value of
long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based on whether
certain trigger events have occurred.  These events include current period
losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses
or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset.  When a trigger
event occurs, an impairment calculation is performed, comparing projected
undiscounted future cash flows, utilizing current cash flow information and
expected growth rates related to specific stores, to the carrying value for
those stores.  If impairment is identified for long-lived assets to be
held and used, discounted future cash flows are compared to the asset’s current
carrying value.  Impairment is recorded when the carrying value exceeds
the discounted cash flows.  With respect to owned property and equipment
held for sale, the value of the property and equipment is adjusted to reflect
recoverable values based on previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and
current economic conditions.  Impairment is recognized for the excess of
the carrying value over the estimated fair market value, reduced by estimated
direct costs of disposal. The Company recorded asset impairments in the normal
course of business totaling $24, $61 and $48 in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Costs to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets for each
of the years presented have been included in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as “Operating, general and administrative” expense.

Store Closing Costs

All
closed store liabilities related to exit or disposal activities initiated after
December 31, 2002, are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities

.  The Company provides for closed store
liabilities relating to the present value of the estimated remaining
noncancellable lease payments after the closing date, net of estimated
subtenant income.  The Company estimates the net lease liabilities using a
discount rate to calculate the present value of the remaining net rent payments
on closed stores.  The closed store lease liabilities usually are paid
over the lease terms associated with the closed stores, which generally have
remaining terms ranging from one to 20 years.  Adjustments to closed store
liabilities primarily relate to changes in subtenant income and actual exit
costs differing from original estimates.  Adjustments are made for changes
in estimates in the period in which the change becomes known.  Store
closing liabilities are reviewed quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount
that is not a sufficient estimate of future costs, or that no longer is needed
for its originally intended purpose, is adjusted to income in the proper period.

Owned
stores held for disposal are reduced to their estimated net realizable
value.  Costs to reduce the carrying values of property, equipment and
leasehold improvements are accounted for in accordance with the Company’s
policy on impairment of long-lived assets.  Inventory write-downs, if any,
in connection with store closings, are classified in “Merchandise costs.” 
Costs to transfer inventory and equipment from closed stores are expensed as
incurred.

The
following table summarizes accrual activity for future lease obligations of
stores closed that were closed in the normal course of business and locations
closed in California prior to the Fred Meyer merger in 1999.

Interest Rate Risk
Management

The
Company uses derivative instruments primarily to manage its exposure to changes
in interest rates.  The Company’s current program relative to interest
rate protection and the methods by which the Company accounts for its
derivative instruments are described in Note 6.


Commodity Price
Protection

The
Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw
materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in its
stores, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices.  The Company
enters into commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those
resources in the conduct of the normal course of business.  The Company’s
current program relative to commodity price protection and the methods by which
the Company accounts for its purchase commitments are described in Note 6.

Benefit Plans

Effective
February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 99, 106 and 132(R)

, which
required the recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or
credits and transition obligations that have not yet been recognized are now
required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (“AOCI”).

The Company currently uses a December 31
measurement date. Effective for 2008, the statement also requires an employer
to measure the funded status of a plan as of the date of its year-end statement
of financial position. The Company will adopt the measurement date change in
fiscal 2008.

The
determination of the obligation and expense for Company-sponsored pension plans
and other post-retirement benefits is dependent on the selection of assumptions
used by actuaries and the Company in calculating those amounts.  Those
assumptions are described in Note 14 and include, among others, the discount
rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rates of
increase in compensation and health care costs.  Actual results that
differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods
and, therefore, generally affect the recognized expense and recorded obligation
in future periods.  While the Company believes that the assumptions are
appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant
changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension and other post-retirement
obligations and future expense.

The
Company also participates in various multi-employer plans for substantially all
union employees.  Pension expense for these plans is recognized as
contributions are funded. Refer to Note 14 for additional information regarding
the Company’s benefit plans.

Stock Option Plans

Effective
January 29, 2006, the Company adopted the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based
Payment,

using the modified prospective transition method, and
therefore, has not restated results for prior periods. Under this method, the
Company recognizes compensation expense for all share-based payments granted
after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based payments granted prior
to, but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R).
Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), the
Company recognizes share-based compensation expense, net of an estimated
forfeiture rate, over the requisite service period of the award. Prior to the
adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company accounted for share-based
payments under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,

(“APB No. 25”) and the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123. The
Company elected the alternative transition method for calculating windfall tax
benefits available as of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). For further
information regarding the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), see Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deferred Income Taxes

Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect
the tax consequences of differences between the tax basis of assets and
liabilities and their financial reporting basis.  Refer to Note 4 for the
types of differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred income
tax assets and liabilities.  Deferred income taxes are classified as a net
current or noncurrent asset or liability based on the classification of the
related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes.  A deferred
tax asset or liability that is not related to an asset or liability for
financial reporting is classified according to the expected reversal date.


Uncertain Tax Positions

Effective February 4, 2007, the Company
adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,

Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

(“FIN No. 48”), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation
also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and
penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.

Various taxing authorities periodically audit
the Company’s income tax returns.  These audits include questions
regarding the Company’s tax filing positions, including the timing and amount
of deductions and the allocation of income to various tax jurisdictions. 
In evaluating the exposures connected with these various tax filing positions,
including state and local taxes, the Company records allowances for probable
exposures.  A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for
which an allowance has been established, is audited and fully resolved. 
As of February 2, 2008, the Internal Revenue Service has concluded an
examination for tax years 2002 through 2004.

The assessment of the
Company’s tax position relies on the judgment of management to estimate the
exposures associated with the Company’s various filing positions.

Self-Insurance Costs

The Company primarily is self-insured for
costs related to workers’ compensation and general liability claims. 
Liabilities are actuarially determined and are recognized based on claims filed
and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported.  The liabilities for
workers’ compensation claims are accounted for on a present value basis. 
The Company has purchased stop-loss coverage to limit its exposure to any
significant exposure on a per claim basis.  The Company is insured for
covered costs in excess of these per claim limits.

The
following table summarizes the changes in the Company’s self-insurance
liability through February 2, 2008.

The current portion of the self-insured
liability is included in “Other accrued liabilities”, and the long-term portion
is included in “Other long-term liabilities” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The Company is also similarly self-insured for
property-related losses.  The Company has purchased stop-loss coverage to
limit its exposure to losses in excess of $25 on a per claim basis, except in
the case of an earthquake, for which stop-loss coverage is in excess of $50 per
claim, up to $200 per claim in California and $300 outside of California.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues from the sale of products are
recognized at the point of sale of the Company’s products.  Discounts
provided to customers by the Company at the time of sale, including those
provided in connection with loyalty cards, are recognized as a reduction in
sales as the products are sold.  Discounts provided by vendors, usually in
the form of paper coupons, are not recognized as a reduction in sales provided
the coupons are redeemable at any retailer that accepts coupons.  Pharmacy
sales are recorded when provided to the customer.  Sales taxes are not
recorded as a component of sales.  The Company does not recognize a sale
when it sells gift cards and gift certificates.  Rather, a sale is
recognized when the gift card or gift certificate is redeemed to purchase the
Company’s products.


Merchandise Costs

The “Merchandise costs” line item of the
Consolidated Statements of Operations includes product costs, net of discounts
and allowances; advertising costs (see separate discussion below); inbound
freight charges; warehousing costs, including receiving and inspection costs;
transportation costs; and manufacturing production and operational costs. 
Warehousing, transportation and manufacturing management salaries are also
included in the “Merchandise costs” line item; however, purchasing management
salaries and administration costs are included in the “Operating, general, and
administrative” line item along with most of the Company’s other managerial and
administrative costs.  Rent expense and depreciation expense are shown
separately in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Warehousing
and transportation costs include distribution center direct wages, repairs and
maintenance, utilities, inbound freight and, where applicable, third party
warehouse management fees, as well as transportation direct wages and repairs
and maintenance.  These costs are recognized in the periods the related
expenses are incurred.

The
Company believes the classification of costs included in merchandise costs
could vary widely throughout the industry.  The Company’s approach is to
include in the “Merchandise costs” line item the direct, net costs of acquiring
products and making them available to customers in its stores.  The
Company believes this approach most accurately presents the actual costs of
products sold.

The
Company recognizes all vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs
when the related product is sold.  When possible, vendor allowances are
applied to the related product by item and, therefore, reduce the carrying
value of inventory by item.  When the items are sold, the vendor allowance
is recognized.  When it is not possible, due to systems constraints, to
allocate vendor allowances to the product by item, vendor allowances are
recognized as a reduction in merchandise costs based on inventory turns and,
therefore, recognized as the product is sold.

Advertising Costs

The Company’s advertising costs are recognized
in the periods the related expenses are incurred and are included in the “Merchandise
costs” line item of the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The
Company’s pre-tax advertising costs totaled $506 in 2007, $508 in 2006 and $498
in 2005.  The Company does not record vendor allowances for co-operative
advertising as a reduction of advertising expense.

Deposits In-Transit

Deposits in-transit generally represent funds
deposited to the Company’s bank accounts at the end of the year related to
sales, a majority of which were paid for with credit cards and checks, to which
the Company does not have immediate access.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For
purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company considers
all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three
months or less to be temporary cash investments.  Book overdrafts, which
are included in accounts payable, represent disbursements that are funded as
the item is presented for payment.  Book overdrafts totaled $661, $600 and
$596 as of February 2, 2008, February 3, 2007, and January 28,
2006, respectively, and are reflected as a financing activity in the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Segments

The Company operates retail food and drug
stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores, and convenience stores
throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail operations, which
represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated sales, are its only
reportable segment. All of the Company’s operations are domestic.


2.

G

OODWILL

The
annual evaluation of goodwill performed during the fourth quarter of 2007, 2006
and 2005 did not result in impairment.

The
following table summarizes the changes in the Company’s net goodwill balance
through February 2, 2008.

In
the second quarter of 2007, the Company completed acquisitions of 18 Scott’s
retail food stores in Northeast Indiana and 20 Farmer Jack retail food stores
in Michigan for approximately $86. The transactions were recorded using the
purchase method of accounting. Assets and liabilities were recorded based on
fair values with the purchase prices being primarily allocated to inventory,
property, plant and equipment and goodwill. The results of operations are
included in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of
acquisition.

The proforma effects of
these acquisitions are not material to previously reported results.

3.                P

ROPERTY,

P

LANT AND

E

QUIPMENT,

N

ET

Property, plant and equipment, net consists
of:

Accumulated
depreciation for leased property under capital leases was $286 at February 2,
2008, and $288 at February 3, 2007.

Approximately
$540 and $566, original cost, of Property, Plant and Equipment collateralized
certain mortgages at February 2, 2008, and February 3, 2007,
respectively.


4.

T

AXES

B

ASED ON

I

NCOME

The provision for taxes based on income
consists of:

A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate
and the effective rate follows:

During the third
quarter of 2007, the Company resolved favorably certain tax issues. This
resulted in a 2007 tax benefit of approximately $40.

In 2006, during the
reconciliation of the Company’s deferred tax balances, after the filing of
annual federal and state tax returns, the Company identified adjustments to be
made in the prior years’ deferred tax reconciliation. These deferred tax
balances were corrected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for
the year ended February 3, 2007, which resulted in a reduction of the
Company’s 2006 provision for income tax expense of approximately $21. The
Company does not believe these adjustments are material to its Consolidated
Financial Statements for the year ended February 3, 2007, or to any prior
years’ Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result, the Company has not
restated any prior year amounts.


The tax effects of significant temporary
differences that comprise tax balances were as follows:

Long-term
deferred taxes have decreased compared to 2006 due to the classification of
temporary differences on a basis consistent with FIN No. 48.  The result was a reclassification of
approximately $500 as of the date of adoption.

At
February 2, 2008, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for
federal income tax purposes of $22 that expire from 2010 through 2018.  In
addition, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for state income tax
purposes of $598 that expire from 2008 through 2028.  The utilization of
certain of the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards may be limited in a
given year.

At February 2, 2008, the Company had state credits of $31 that
expire from 2008 through 2021.  The utilization of certain of the Company’s
credits may be limited in a given year.


The
Company adopted the provisions of FIN No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes

on February 4,
2007. As of adoption, the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for
uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax
benefits, was $694. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits is a follows:

The
Company does not anticipate that changes in the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits over the next twelve months will have a significant impact on its
results of operations or financial position.

As
February 2, 2008, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
recognized, would impact the effective tax rate was $120.

To
the extent interest and penalties would be assessed by taxing authorities on
any underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued and classified
as a component of income tax expense. During the year ended February 2,
2008, the Company recognized approximately $(11) in interest and penalties. The
Company had accrued approximately $101 and $118 for the payment of interest and
penalties as of February 2, 2008 and February 3, 2007, respectively.

The
IRS concluded a field examination of the Company’s 2002 – 2004 U.S. tax returns
during the third quarter of 2007. An examination of the Company’s 1999 – 2001
U.S. tax returns was completed in 2005. The Company contested two issues at the
appellate level of the IRS. One of the issues was resolved in the third quarter
of 2007 and we anticipate that the remaining issue may be resolved within the
next 12 months. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of the
item noted above will not have a significant effect on our consolidated
financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. Additionally, the
Company has a case in the U.S. Tax Court. A decision on this case is not
expected within the next 12 months. In connection with this case, the Company
has extended the statute of limitations on our tax years after 1991 and those
years remain open to examination. States have a limited time frame to review
and adjust federal audit changes reported. Assessments made and refunds allowed
are generally limited to the federal audit changes reported.

5.             D

EBT

O

BLIGATIONS

Long-term debt consists of:

In 2007, the Company issued $600 of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 6.4% due in 2017 and $750 of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 6.15% due in 2020.


As of February 2, 2008, the Company had a
$2,500 Five-Year Credit Agreement maturing in 2011, unless earlier terminated
by the Company.  Borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at
the option of the Company at a rate equal to either (i) the highest, from
time to time of (A) the base rate of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., (B) ½%
over a moving average of secondary market morning offering rates for
three-month certificates of deposit adjusted for reserve requirements, and (C) ½%
over the federal funds rate or (ii) an adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon
the London Interbank Offered Rate (“Eurodollar Rate”) plus an applicable
margin.  In addition, the Company pays a facility fee in connection with
the credit agreement.  Both the applicable margin and the facility fee
vary based upon the Company’s achievement of a financial ratio or credit
rating.  At February 2, 2008, the applicable margin was 0.19%, and
the facility fee was 0.06%.  The credit facility contains covenants,
which, among other things, require the maintenance of certain financial ratios,
including fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios.  The Company may
prepay the credit agreement in whole or in part, at any time, without a
prepayment penalty. As of February 2, 2008, the Company had $570
outstanding under the credit agreement including borrowings totaling $345 under
its P2/F2/A3 rated commercial paper program.  Any borrowings under this
program are backed by the Company’s credit facility and reduce the amount
available under the credit facility. The weighted average interest rate on the
amounts outstanding under the credit agreement was 3.69% at February 2,
2008.

At
February 2, 2008, the Company also maintains four money market lines
totaling $125 in the aggregate.  In addition to credit agreement
borrowings, borrowings under the money market lines and some outstanding
letters of credit reduce funds available under the Company’s credit agreement. The
Company had no borrowings under the money market lines at February 2, 2008.
The outstanding letters of credit that reduce funds available under the Company’s
credit agreement totaled $355 as of February 2, 2008.

Most
of the Company’s outstanding public debt is subject to early redemption at
varying times and premiums, at the option of the Company.  In addition,
subject to certain conditions, some of the Company’s publicly issued debt will
be subject to redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder upon
the occurrence of a redemption event, upon not less than five days’ notice
prior to the date of redemption, at a redemption price equal to the default
amount, plus a specified premium.  “Redemption Event” is defined in the
indentures as the occurrence of (i) any person or group, together with any
affiliate thereof, beneficially owning 50% or more of the voting power of the
Company, (ii) any one person or group, or affiliate thereof, succeeding in
having a majority of its nominees elected to the Company’s Board of Directors,
in each case, without the consent of a majority of the continuing directors of
the Company or (iii) both a change of control and a below investment grade
rating.

The
aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term debt, as of
year-end 2007, and for the years subsequent to 2007 are:

6.

F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

Interest Rate Risk
Management

The
Company historically has used derivatives to manage its exposure to changes in
interest rates.  The interest differential to be paid or received is
accrued as interest expense. SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

,
as amended, defines derivatives, requires that derivatives be carried at fair
value on the balance sheet and provides for hedge accounting when certain
conditions are met.  In accordance with this standard, the Company’s
derivative financial instruments are recognized on the balance sheet at fair
value.  Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as “cash
flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are highly effective, are recorded in
other comprehensive income, net of tax effects. Ineffective portions of cash
flow hedges, if any, are recognized in current period earnings.  Other
comprehensive income or loss is reclassified into current period earnings when
the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments designated as “fair value” hedges, along with
corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities,
are recorded in current period earnings.


The
Company assesses, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis,
whether derivatives used as hedging instruments are highly effective in offsetting
the changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged items.  If it is
determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge or ceases to be
highly effective, the Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively.

The
Company’s current program relative to interest rate protection contemplates
hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt
attributable to changes in interest rates.  To do this, the Company uses
the following guidelines: (i) use average daily outstanding borrowings to
determine annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit
the average annual amount subject to interest rate reset and the amount of
floating rate debt to a combined total of $2,500 million or less, (iii) include
no leverage products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or
sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

Annually,
the Company reviews with the Financial Policy Committee of the Board of
Directors compliance with the guidelines.  These guidelines may change as
the Company’s needs dictate.

The table below summarizes the outstanding
interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges as of February 2,
2008, and February 3, 2007.

In
addition to the interest rate swaps noted above, in 2005 the Company entered
into three forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a notional
amount totaling $750.  A forward-starting interest rate swap is an
agreement that effectively hedges future benchmark interest rates on debt for
an established period of time.  The Company entered into the
forward-starting interest rate swaps in order to lock into fixed interest rates
on forecasted issuances of debt in 2007 and 2008. In 2007, the Company
terminated two of these forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional
amount of $500. The unamortized payment and proceeds on the two terminated
forward-starting interest rate swaps have been recorded net of tax in other
comprehensive income and will be amortized to earnings as the payments of
interest to which the hedge relates are made.  The one remaining
forward-starting interest rate swap as of February 2, 2008 has a ten-year
term with an interest rate of 5.11%.

Commodity Price
Protection

The
Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw
materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in its
stores, warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. 
The Company enters into commitments expecting to take delivery of and to
utilize those resources in the conduct of normal business.  Those
commitments for which the Company expects to utilize or take delivery in a
reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business qualify as normal
purchases and normal sales.

Some
of the product the Company purchases is shipped in corrugated cardboard
packaging.  The corrugated cardboard is sold when it is economical to do
so. As of February 2, 2008, the Company maintained three derivative
instruments to manage exposure to changes in corrugated cardboard prices. 
These derivatives have a three-year term. The instruments do not qualify for
hedge accounting, in accordance with SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Investments and Hedging
Activities,

as amended.  Accordingly, changes in the fair value
of these instruments are marked-to-market in the Company’s Consolidated
Statements of Operations as operating, general and administrative (“OG&A”)
expenses.  As of February 2, 2008, an accrued liability totaling $1
had been recorded to reflect the fair value of these instruments.


7.

F

AIR

V

ALUE OF

F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were
used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument for which
it was practicable to estimate that value:

Cash and Temporary Cash Investments, Store Deposits
In-Transit, Receivables, Prepaid and Other Current Assets, Accounts Payable,
Accrued Salaries and Wages and Other Current Liabilities

The
carrying amounts of these items approximated fair value.

Long-term Investments

The fair values of these investments were
estimated based on quoted market prices for those or similar investments, or
estimated cash flows, if appropriate.

Long-term Debt

The fair value of the Company’s long-term
debt, including the current portion thereof and excluding borrowings under the
credit facility, was estimated based on the quoted market price for the same or
similar issues adjusted for illiquidity based on available market
evidence.  If quoted market prices were not available, the fair value was
based upon the net present value of the future cash flows using the forward
interest rate yield curve in effect at the respective year-ends.  The
carrying values of long-term debt outstanding under the Company’s credit
facility approximated fair value.

Interest Rate
Protection Agreements

The fair value of these agreements was based
on the net present value of the future cash flows using the forward interest
rate yield curve in effect at the respective year-ends.


The estimated fair values of the Company’s
financial instruments are as follows:

8.

L

EASES AND

L

EASE-FINANCED

T

RANSACTIONS

The Company operates primarily in leased
facilities. Lease terms generally range from 10 to 20 years with options to
renew for varying terms. Terms of certain leases include escalation clauses,
percentage rent based on sales or payment of executory costs such as property
taxes, utilities or insurance and maintenance. Rent expense for leases with
escalation clauses or other lease concessions are accounted for on a
straight-line basis beginning with the earlier of the lease commencement date
or the date the Company takes possession.  Portions of certain properties
are subleased to others for periods generally ranging from one to 20 years.

Rent expense (under operating leases) consists
of:


Minimum annual rentals and payments under
capital leases and lease-financed transactions for the five years subsequent to
2007 and in the aggregate are:

Total
future minimum rentals under noncancellable subleases at February 2, 2008,
were $553.

9.

E

ARNINGS

P

ER

C

OMMON

S

HARE

Basic
earnings per common share equals net earnings divided by the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding.  Diluted earnings per common share
equals net earnings divided by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding after giving effect to dilutive stock options and warrants.

The following table provides a reconciliation
of earnings and shares used in calculating basic earnings per share to those
used in calculating diluted earnings per share.

For the years ended February 2, 2008, February 3,
2007 and January 28, 2006, there were options outstanding for approximately
2.0 million, 25.4 million and 24.6 million shares of common stock,
respectively, that were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS. 
These shares were excluded because their inclusion would have had an
anti-dilutive effect on EPS.

10.

S

TOCK

O

PTION

P

LANS

Prior to January 29, 2006, the Company
applied APB No. 25, and related interpretations, in accounting for its
stock option plans and provided the pro-forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123.
APB No. 25 provided for recognition of compensation expense for employee
stock awards based on the intrinsic value of the award on the grant date.


The Company grants options for common stock (“stock
options”) to employees, as well as to its non-employee directors, under various
plans at an option price equal to the fair market value of the stock at the
date of grant. Equity awards may be made at one of four meetings of its Board
of Directors occurring shortly after the Company’s release of quarterly
earnings. The 2007 annual grant was made in conjunction with the June meeting
of the Company’s Board of Directors.

Stock options typically expire 10 years from
the date of grant. Stock options vest between one and five years from the date
of grant, or for certain stock options, the earlier of the Company’s stock
reaching certain pre-determined and appreciated market prices or nine years and
six months from the date of grant. Under APB No. 25, the Company did not
recognize compensation expense for these stock option grants. At February 2,
2008, approximately 11 million shares of common stock were available for future
option grants under these plans.

In
addition to the stock options described above, the Company awards restricted
stock to employees under various plans. The restrictions on these awards
generally lapse between one and five years from the date of the awards and
expense is recognized over the lapsing cycle. Under APB No. 25, the
Company generally recorded expense for restricted stock awards in an amount
equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the date of award. As
of February 2, 2008, approximately three million shares of common stock
were available for future restricted stock awards under the 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the “Plan”). The Company has the ability to convert shares
available for stock options under the Plan to shares available for restricted
stock awards. Four shares available for common stock option awards can be
converted into one share available for restricted stock awards.

All
awards become immediately exercisable upon certain changes of control of the
Company.

Historically,
stock option awards were granted to various employees throughout the
organization. Restricted stock awards, however, were limited to approximately
150 associates, including members of the Board of Directors and certain members
of senior management. Beginning in 2006, the Company began issuing a
combination of stock option and restricted stock awards to those employees who
previously received only stock option awards, in an effort to further align
those employees’ interests with those of the Company’s non-employee
shareholders. As a result, the number of stock option awards granted in 2007
and 2006 decreased and the number of restricted stock awards granted increased.

Stock Options

Changes
in options outstanding under the stock option plans are summarized below:


A summary of options outstanding and
exercisable at February 2, 2008 follows:

The weighted-average
remaining contractual life for options exercisable at February 2, 2008,
was approximately 3.7 years.

Restricted
stock

Adoption
of SFAS No. 123(R)

Effective January 29,
2006, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

using the
modified-prospective method. Under this method, the Company recognizes
compensation expense for all share-based awards granted prior to, but not yet
vested as of, January 29, 2006, based on the grant date fair value
estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

For
all share-based awards granted on or after January 29, 2006, the Company
recognizes compensation expense based on the grant date fair value estimated in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).

In accordance with the
provisions of the modified-prospective transition method, results for prior
periods have not been restated. Compensation expense for all share-based awards
described above was recognized using the straight-line attribution method
applied to the fair value of each option grant, over the requisite service
period associated with each award. The requisite service period is typically
consistent with the vesting period, except as noted below. Because awards
typically vest evenly over the requisite service period, compensation cost
recognized through February 2, 2008, is at least equal to the grant-date
fair value of the vested portion of all outstanding awards. All of the Company
stock-based incentive plans are considered equity plans under SFAS No. 123(R).


The weighted-average fair
value of stock options granted during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $9.66, $6.90 and
$7.70, respectively. The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the
assumptions shown in the table below. The Black-Scholes model utilizes
extensive accounting judgment and financial estimates, including the term
employees are expected to retain their stock options before exercising them,
the volatility of the Company’s stock price over that expected term, the
dividend yield over the term and the number of awards expected to be forfeited
before they vest. Using alternative assumptions in the calculation of fair
value would produce fair values for stock option grants that could be different
than those used to record stock-based compensation expense in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

The following table
reflects the weighted-average assumptions used for grants awarded to option
holders:

The weighted-average
risk-free interest rate was based on the yield of a treasury note as of the
grant date, continuously compounded, which matures at a date that approximates
the expected term of options. Prior to 2006, the Company did not pay a
dividend, so an expected dividend rate was not included in the determination of
fair value for options granted during those years. Using a dividend yield of
1.50% to value options issued in 2005 would have decreased the fair value of
each option by approximately $1.60. Expected volatility was determined based
upon historical stock volatilities; however, implied volatility was also
considered. Expected term was determined based upon a combination of historical
exercise and cancellation experience as well as estimates of expected future
exercise and cancellation experience.

Under SFAS No. 123(R),
the Company records expense for restricted stock awards in an amount equal to
the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date of the award,
over the period the awards lapse.

Total stock compensation
recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $87, $72 and $7, respectively. Stock
option compensation recognized in 2007 and 2006 was $51 and $50, respectively.
Restricted shares compensation recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $36, $22
and $7 respectively.

If compensation cost for
the Company’s stock option plans for the year ended January 28, 2006 had
been determined based upon the fair value at the grant date for awards under
these plans consistent with the methodology prescribed under SFAS No. 123,
the net earnings and diluted earnings per common share would have been reduced
to the pro forma amounts below:

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised was $33 and $79 in 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The total amount of cash received from the exercise of options
granted under share-based payment arrangements was $188. As of February 2,
2008, there was $110 of total unrecognized compensation expense related to
non-vested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Company’s
equity award plans. This cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of approximately one year. The total fair value of
options that vested was $53 and $44 in 2007 and 2006, respectively.


Shares
issued as a result of stock option exercises may be newly issued shares or
reissued treasury shares. Proceeds received from the exercise of options, and
the related tax benefit, are utilized to repurchase shares of the Company’s
stock under a stock repurchase program adopted by the Company’s Board of
Directors. During 2007, the Company repurchased approximately 10 million shares
of stock in such a manner.

For
share-based awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the
Company’s stock option grants generally contained retirement-eligibility
provisions that caused the options to vest upon the earlier of the stated
vesting date or retirement. Compensation expense was calculated over the stated
vesting periods, regardless of whether certain employees became
retirement-eligible during the respective vesting periods. Upon the adoption of
SFAS No. 123(R), the Company continued this method of recognizing
compensation expense for awards granted prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
For awards granted on or after January 29, 2006, options vest based on the
stated vesting date, even if an employee retires prior to the vesting date. The
requisite service period ends, however, on the employee’s retirement-eligible
date. As a result, the Company recognizes expense for stock option grants
containing such retirement-eligibility provisions over the shorter of the
vesting period or the period until employees become retirement-eligible (the
requisite service period). As a result of retirement eligibility provisions in
stock option awards granted on or after January 29, 2006, approximately
$13 of compensation expense was recognized in 2007 prior to the completion of
stated vesting periods.

11.  C

OMMITMENTS AND

C

ONTINGENCIES

The
Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best available
evidence.

The Company believes that allowances for loss
have been provided to the extent necessary and that its assessment of
contingencies is reasonable.  To the extent that resolution of contingencies
results in amounts that vary from the Company’s estimates, future earnings will
be charged or credited.

The
principal contingencies are described below:

Insurance

— The Company’s workers’ compensation risks are self-insured in certain
states. In addition, other workers’ compensation risks and certain levels of
insured general liability risks are based on retrospective premium plans,
deductible plans, and self-insured retention plans.  The liability for
workers’ compensation risks is accounted for on a present value basis. 
Actual claim settlements and expenses incident thereto may differ from the
provisions for loss.  Property risks have been underwritten by a
subsidiary and are reinsured with unrelated insurance companies.  Operating
divisions and subsidiaries have paid premiums, and the insurance subsidiary has
provided loss allowances, based upon actuarially determined estimates.

Litigation –

On October 6, 2006, the Company petitioned the Tax Court (

In Re: Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries,
formerly known as Ralphs Supermarkets, Inc., Docket No. 20364-06

)
for a redetermination of deficiencies set by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue. The dispute at issue involves a 1992 transaction in which Ralphs
Holding Company acquired the stock of Ralphs Grocery Company and made an
election under Section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code. The
Commissioner has determined that the acquisition of the stock was not a
purchase as defined by Section 338(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code
and that the acquisition does not qualify as a purchase. The Company believes
that it has strong arguments in favor of its position and believes it is more
likely than not that its position will be sustained. However, due to the
inherent uncertainty involved in the litigation process, there can be no
assurances that the Tax Court will rule in favor of the Company. As of February 2,
2008, an adverse decision would require a cash payment of approximately $419,
including interest.


On
February 2, 2004, the Attorney General for the State of California filed
an action in Los Angeles federal court (

California,
ex rel Lockyer v. Safeway, Inc. dba Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc.
and Ralphs Grocery Company, a division of The Kroger Co.

, United
States District Court Central District of California, Case No. CV04-0687)
alleging that the Mutual Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between
the Company, Albertson’s, Inc. and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”),
which was designed to prevent the union from placing disproportionate pressure
on one or more of the Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the
other Retailer(s) during the labor dispute in southern California,
violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and
injunctive relief. On May 25, 2005, the Court denied a motion for a
summary judgment filed by the defendants. Ralphs and the other defendants filed
a notice of an interlocutory appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. On November 29, 2005, the appellate court dismissed the
appeal. On December 7, 2006, the Court denied a motion for summary
judgment filed by the State of California. The Company continues to believe it
has strong defenses against this lawsuit and is vigorously defending it.
Although this lawsuit is subject to uncertainties inherent to the litigation
process, based on the information presently available to the Company,
management does not expect that the ultimate resolution of this action will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

Various claims and lawsuits arising in the
normal course of business, including suits charging violations of certain
antitrust, wage and hour, or civil rights laws, are pending against the
Company. Some of these suits purport or have been determined to be class
actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in
antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although it is not possible at
this time to evaluate the merits of all of these claims and lawsuits, nor their
likelihood of success, the Company is of the belief that any resulting
liability will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
position.

The Company continually
evaluates its exposure to loss contingencies arising from pending or threatened
litigation and believes it has made adequate provisions therefor. Nonetheless,
assessing and predicting the outcomes of these matters involve substantial
uncertainties. It remains possible that despite management’s current belief,
material differences in actual outcomes or changes in management’s evaluation
or predictions could arise that could have a material adverse impact on the
Company’s financial condition or results of operation.

Guarantees –

Most of the Company’s outstanding public debt is jointly and severally,
fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of the
Company’s subsidiaries.  See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for a more detailed discussion of those arrangements.  In
addition, the Company has guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real
estate entities in which Kroger has a 50% ownership interest.  The
Company’s share of the responsibility for this indebtedness, should the
entities be unable to meet their obligations, totals approximately $7. 
Based on the covenants underlying this indebtedness as of February 2,
2008, it is unlikely that the Company will be responsible for repayment of these
obligations. The Company also agreed to guarantee, up to $10, the indebtedness
of an entity of which Kroger has a 25% ownership interest. The Company’s share
of the responsibility, as of February 2, 2008, should the entity be unable
to meet its obligations, totals approximately $9 and is collateralized by $8 of
inventory located in the Company’s stores.

Assignments –

The Company is contingently liable for leases that have been assigned
to various third parties in connection with facility closings and
dispositions.  The Company could be required to satisfy the obligations
under the leases if any of the assignees is 
unable to fulfill its lease obligations.  Due to the wide
distribution of the Company’s assignments among third parties, and various
other remedies available, the Company believes the likelihood that it will be
required to assume a material amount of these obligations is remote.

12.  S

UBSEQUENT

E

VENTS

On
March 19, 2008, the Company announced the issuance of $400 of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 5.00% and $375 of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 6.90%, which will be due April, 2013 and April 2038, respectively.

13.  S

TOCK

Preferred Stock

The
Company has authorized 5 million shares of voting cumulative preferred stock; 2
million were available for issuance at February 2, 2008. The stock has a
par value of $100 per share and is issuable in series.


Common Stock

The Company has authorized one billion shares of common
stock, $1 par value per share.  On May 20, 1999, the shareholders
authorized an amendment to the Amended Articles of Incorporation to increase
the authorized shares of common stock from 1 billion to 2 billion when the
Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of the Company.

Common Stock
Repurchase Program

The Company maintains
stock repurchase programs that comply with Securities Exchange Act
Rule 10b5-1 to allow for the orderly repurchase of Kroger stock, from time
to time.  The Company made open market purchases totaling $1,151, $374 and
$239 under these repurchase programs in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.  In addition to these repurchase programs, in
December 1999, the Company began a program to repurchase common stock to
reduce dilution resulting from its employee stock option plans.  This
program is solely funded by proceeds from stock option exercises, and the tax
benefit.  The Company repurchased approximately $270, $259 and $13 under
the stock option program during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

14.  BENEFIT PLANS

The Company administers
non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all
non-union employees and some union-represented employees as determined by the
terms and conditions of collective bargaining agreements.  These included
several qualified pension plans (the “Qualified Plans”) and a non-qualified
plan (the “Non-Qualified Plan”).  The Non-Qualified Plan pays benefits to
any employee that earns in excess of the maximum allowed for the Qualified
Plans by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The Company only
funds obligations under the Qualified Plans.  Funding for the pension
plans is based on a review of the specific requirements and on evaluation of
the assets and liabilities of each plan.

In addition to providing
pension benefits, the Company provides certain health care benefits for retired
employees.  The majority of the Company’s employees may become eligible
for these benefits if they reach normal retirement age while employed by the
Company.  Funding of retiree health care benefits occurs as claims or
premiums are paid.

Effective
February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 87, 99, 106 and 132(R),

which
requires the recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or credits
and transition obligations that have not yet been recognized are required to be
recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”). The
Company currently uses a December 31 measurement date. Effective for 2008,
the statement also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan
as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position. The Company
will adopt the measurement date change in fiscal 2008.

Amounts recognized in
AOCI as of February 2, 2008 consist of the following (pre-tax):

Amounts in AOCI expected
to be recognized as components of net periodic pension or postretirement
benefit costs in 2008 are as follows (pre-tax):


Other changes recognized
in other comprehensive income in 2007 are as follows (pre-tax):

Information with respect to change in benefit obligation,
change in plan assets, the funded status of the plans recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets, net amounts recognized at end of fiscal years,
weighted average assumptions and components of net periodic benefit cost follow:

As of February 2,
2008 and February 3, 2007, pension plan assets included no shares of The
Kroger Co. common stock.


The Company’s discount
rate assumption was intended to reflect the rate at which the pension benefits
could be effectively settled.  It takes into account the timing and amount
of benefits that would be available under the plan. The Company’s methodology
for selecting the discount rate as of year-end 2007 was to match the plan’s
cash flows to that of a yield curve that provides the equivalent yields on
zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity.  Benefit cash flows due in
a particular year can theoretically be “settled” by “investing” them in the
zero-coupon bond that matures in the same year.  The discount rate is the
single rate that produces the same present value of cash flows.  The
selection of the 6.50% discount rate as of year-end 2007 represents the
equivalent single rate under a broad-market AA yield curve constructed by an
outside consultant. We utilized a discount rate of 5.90% for year-end
2006.  The 60 basis point increase in the discount rate decreased the
projected pension benefit obligation as of February 2, 2008, by
approximately $184.

To determine the expected
return on pension plan assets, the Company contemplates current and forecasted
plan asset allocations as well as historical and forecasted returns on various
asset categories.  The average annual return on pension plan assets was
8.5% for the ten calendar years ended December 31, 2007, net of all fees
and expenses.  Our actual return for the pension plan calendar year ending
December 31, 2007, on that same basis, was 9.5%.  The Company
utilized a pension return assumption of 8.5% in 2007, 2006 and 2005.

The Company uses the
RP-2000 projected 2015 mortality table in calculating the pension obligation.

The following table
provides the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”), accumulated benefit
obligation (“ABO”) and the fair value of plan assets for all Company-sponsored
pension plans.

The following table provides information about the Company’s
estimated future benefit payments.


The Company discontinued
the accrual of additional benefits under the Company’s cash balance formula of
the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan (the “Cash Balance Plan”) effective
January 1, 2007. Participants in the Cash Balance Plan will continue to
earn interest credits on their accrued benefit balance as of December 31,
2006, based on average Treasury rates, but will no longer accrue cash balance
pay credits under the Cash Balance Plan after December 31, 2006. Projected
pension benefit payments, as noted above, are lower than estimates in prior
years as a result of the discontinuation of benefit accruals under the Cash
Balance Plan. As a result of the decision to curtail benefits under the Cash
Balance Plan, the Company recorded a charge totaling $5, pre-tax, in fiscal
2006, which represented the previously unrecognized prior service costs.

Net periodic benefit cost
decreased in 2007 compared to 2006 and 2005 due to participants in the Cash
Balance formula of the Consolidated Retirement Benefit Plan being moved to a
401(k) retirement savings account plan effective January 1, 2007. Participants
under that formula continue to earn interest on prior contributions but no
additional pay credits will be earned. The 401(k) retirement savings plan
provides to eligible employees both matching contributions and automatic
contributions from Kroger based on participant contributions, plan
compensation, and length of service. The Company contributed and expensed $90
to employee 401(k) retirement savings accounts in 2007.

The following table
provides information about the target and actual pension plan asset allocations. 
Allocation percentages are shown as of December 31 for each respective
year.  The pension plan measurement date is the December 31

st

nearest the fiscal year-end.

Investment objectives, policies and strategies are set by the
Pension Investment Committee (the “Committee”) appointed by the CEO.  The
primary objectives include holding, protecting and investing the assets and
distributing benefits to participants and beneficiaries of the pension
plans.  Investment objectives have been established based on a
comprehensive review of the capital markets and each underlying plan’s current
and projected financial requirements.  The time horizon of the investment
objectives is long-term in nature and plan assets are managed on a
going-concern basis.

Investment objectives and guidelines specifically applicable
to each manager of assets are established and reviewed annually. 
Derivative instruments may be used for specified purposes.  Any use of
derivative instruments for a purpose or in a manner not specifically authorized
is prohibited, unless approved in advance by the Committee.

The current target
allocations shown represent 2007 targets that were established in 2006. 
To maintain actual asset allocations consistent with target allocations, assets
are reallocated or rebalanced periodically.  In addition, cash flow from
employer contributions and participant benefit payments is used to fund
underweight asset classes and divest overweight asset classes, as
appropriate.  The Company expects that cash flow will be sufficient to
meet most rebalancing needs.  Although the Company is not required to make
cash contributions to its Company-sponsored pension plans during fiscal 2008,
contributions may be made if required under the Pension Protection Act to avoid
any benefit restrictions.  The Company expects any voluntary contributions
made during 2008 will reduce its minimum required contributions in future
years.


The
measurement date for post-retirement benefit obligations is the December 31

st

nearest the fiscal year-end.  Assumed health care cost trend rates
have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care
plans.  The Company used a 8.50% initial health care cost trend rate and a
5.00% ultimate health care cost trend rate to determine its expense.  A
one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
have the following effects:

1% Point

Increase

1% Point

Decrease

Effect on total
  of service and interest cost components

$


$

(3

)

Effect on
  postretirement benefit obligation

$


$

(28

)

On
December 8, 2003, the President signed into law the Medicare Prescription
Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.  The law provides for a
federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a
benefit at least actuarially equivalent to the benefit established by the
law.  The Company has concluded that the plan is at least “actuarially equivalent”
to the Medicare Part D plan for certain covered groups only and will be
eligible for the subsidy for those groups.  The effect of the subsidy
reduced the Company’s postretirement benefit obligation as of February 2,
2008 and February 3, 2007 by $4 and $6, respectively, and did not have a
material effect on the Company’s net periodic benefit cost in either of those
years.  The remaining groups’ benefits are not “actuarially equivalent” to
the Medicare Part D plan, and the Company has made the decision to pay as
secondary coverage to Medicare Part D for those groups.

The
Company also contributes to various multi-employer pension plans based on
obligations arising from most of its collective bargaining agreements. 
These plans provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service
to contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in
trust for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by
employers and unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for
determining the level of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for
such matters as the investment of the assets and the administration of the
plans.

The
Company recognizes expense in connection with these plans as contributions are
funded, in accordance with GAAP.  The Company made contributions to these
plans, and recognized expense, of $207 in 2007, $204 in 2006, and $196 in 2005.

Based
on the most recent information available to it, the Company believes that the
present value of actuarial accrued liabilities in most or all of these
multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in
trust to pay benefits.  Although underfunding can result in the imposition
of excise taxes on contributing employers, factors such as increased contributions,
increased asset values or future service benefit changes can reduce
underfunding so that excise taxes are not triggered.  Moreover, if the
Company were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions to
these funds, the Company could trigger a substantial withdrawal
liability.  Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when
it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably estimated, in
accordance with GAAP.

The
Company also administers other defined contribution plans for eligible union
and non-union employees.  The cost of these plans for 2007, 2006 and 2005
was $8.

15.

RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS

Effective February 4, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 48,

Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109

(“FIN
No. 48”), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement
attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  This interpretation also provides guidance on
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim
periods, disclosure, and transition.

The effect of adoption was to increase retained earnings by $4 and to
decrease the Company’s accrual for uncertain tax positions by a corresponding
amount.  Additionally, the Company
decreased goodwill and accrual for uncertain tax positions by $72 to reflect
the measurement under the rules of FIN No. 48 of an uncertain tax
position related to previous business combinations.

As of adoption, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits for
uncertain tax positions, including positions affecting only the timing of tax
benefits, was $694.  The amount of
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax
rate was $119.


To the extent interest and penalties would be assessed by taxing
authorities on any underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued
and classified as a component of income tax expense in the Company’s Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
This accounting policy election is a continuation of the Company’s
historical policy.  As of February 4,
2007, the amount of accrued interest and penalties included on the Condensed
Consolidated Balance Sheets was $118.

The IRS concluded a field examination of the Company’s 2002 – 2004 U.S.
tax returns during the third quarter of 2007. 
An examination of the Company’s 1999 – 2001 U.S. tax returns was
completed in 2005.  The Company contested
two issues at the appellate level of the IRS. 
One of the issues was resolved in the third quarter of 2007 and the Company
anticipates that the remaining issue may be resolved within the next 12
months.  In the opinion of management,
the ultimate disposition of the item noted above will not have a significant
effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results
of operations.  Additionally, The Company
has a case in the U.S. Tax Court.  A
decision on this case is not expected within the next 12 months.  In connection with this case, the Company has
extended the statute of limitations on its tax years after 1991.

As a result of
settlements with taxing authorities during the third quarter, the Company
reclassified unrecognized tax benefits of $168 from other long-term liabilities
to deferred income taxes and accrued taxes payable.  See Note 4 for further discussion of the
adoption of FIN 48.

Effective
February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
provisions of SFAS No. 158,

Employers’
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an
amendment of FASB Statement No. 87, 99, 106 and 132(R),

which requires the recognition of the funded status of its retirement plans on
the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
Actuarial gains or losses, prior service costs or credits and transition
obligations that have not yet been recognized are required to be recorded as a
component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”).

The Company currently uses a December 31
measurement date.  Effective for 2008,
the statement also requires an employer to measure the funded status of a plan
as of the date of its year-end statement of financial position.  The Company will adopt the measurement date
change in fiscal 2008.  See Note14 for
further discussion of the adoption of SFAS 158.

Effective January 29,
2006, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),

Share-Based Payment,

using the modified-prospective
method.  Under this method, the Company
recognizes compensation expense for all share-based awards granted prior to,
but not yet vested as of, January 29, 2006, based on the grant date fair
value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

For all share-based awards granted on or
after January 29, 2006, the Company recognizes compensation expense based
on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS
No. 123(R).  See Note10 for further
discussion of the adoption of SFAS 123(R).

16.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157,

Fair Value Measurement

.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP and expands
disclosures about fair value measurement. 
SFAS No. 157 does not require any new fair value measurements.  SFAS No. 157 will become effective for
the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 3, 2008.  The Company is evaluating the effect the
implementation of SFAS No. 157 will have on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In
February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,

The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities-Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.

SFAS No. 159 permits entities
to make an irrevocable election to measure certain financial instruments and
other assets and liabilities at fair value on an instrument-by-instrument
basis.  Unrealized gains and losses on
items for which the fair value option has been elected should be recognized
into net earnings at each subsequent reporting date.  SFAS No. 159 will be become effective
for the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 3, 2008.  The Company is currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on its Consolidated
Financial Statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial
Statements-an amendment of ARB No. 51.

SFAS No. 160 will require the
consolidation of noncontrolling interests as a component of equity.  SFAS No. 160 will become effective for
the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  The Company is currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS No. 160 will have on its Consolidated
Financial Statements.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007),

Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141R)

,
which replaces SFAS No. 141

.

SFAS No. 141R further expands
the definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.

SFAS No. 141R will become
effective for the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2009.  The Company is currently evaluating the
effect the adoption of SFAS No. 141R will have on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.


In
March 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

SFAS No. 161
requires enhanced disclosures on an entity’s derivative and hedging activities.

SFAS
No. 161 will become effective for the Company’s fiscal year beginning February 1,
2009.  The Company is currently
evaluating the effect the adoption of SFAS No. 161 will have on its
Consolidated Financial Statements.

17.

G

UARANTOR

S

UBSIDIARIES

The
Company’s outstanding public debt (the “Guaranteed Notes”) is jointly and
severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of
its subsidiaries (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”).  At February 2,
2008, a total of approximately $6,766 of Guaranteed Notes was
outstanding.  The Guarantor Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries
are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Kroger Co.  Separate financial
statements of The Kroger Co. and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not presented
because the guarantees are full and unconditional and the Guarantor
Subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable.  The Company believes that
separate financial statements and other disclosures concerning the Guarantor
Subsidiaries would not be material to investors.

The
non-guaranteeing subsidiaries represent less than 3% on an individual and
aggregate basis of consolidated assets, pre-tax earnings, cash flow, and
equity.  Therefore, the non-guarantor subsidiaries’ information is not
separately presented in the tables below.

There
are no current restrictions on the ability of the Guarantor Subsidiaries to
make payments under the guarantees referred to above, except, however, the
obligations of each guarantor under its guarantee are limited to the maximum
amount as will result in obligations of such guarantor under its guarantee not
constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer for purposes of
Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent
Transfer Act, or any similar Federal or state law (e.g., adequate capital to
pay dividends under corporate laws).


The
following tables present summarized financial information as of February 2,
2008 and February 3, 2007 and for the three years ended February 2,
2008.

Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of February 3, 2007


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended February 2, 2008

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended February 3, 2007


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended January 28, 2006


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 3, 2007


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended January 28, 2006


18.

Q

UARTERLY

D

ATA

(U

NAUDITED

)


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
  ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

As of February 2, 2008, the Chief
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, together with a disclosure
review committee appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, evaluated Kroger’s
disclosure controls and procedures.  Based on that evaluation, Kroger’s
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Kroger’s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of February 2, 2008.

C

HANGES IN

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

There was no change in Kroger’s internal
control over financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended February 2,
2008, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, Kroger’s internal control over financial reporting.

M

ANAGEMENT’S

R

EPORT ON

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

The
management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  With
the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria
established in

Internal Control – Integrated
Framework

, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission.  Based on this evaluation, our management has
concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of February 2, 2008.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting as of February 2, 2008, has been audited
by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, as stated in their report, which can be found in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER
  INFORMATION.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS,
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

The
information required by this Item not otherwise set forth below is set forth
under the headings Election of Directors and Information Concerning the Board
of Directors in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference
into this Form 10-K.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based
solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms
received by the Company, or written representations from certain persons that no
Forms 5 were required by those persons, the Company believes that during fiscal
year 2007 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors and 10%
beneficial owners were timely satisfied, with three exceptions.  M. Elizabeth Van Oflen filed a Form 4
reporting a 2006 restricted stock award that was not reported on a prior Form 4,
Don McGeorge filed a Form 5 reporting his wife’s sale of a fractional
share from her Company 401(k) account that was not reported on a prior Form 4,
and Susan Phillips filed a Form 5 reporting shares purchased through
dividend reinvestment in 2007 that was not reported on a prior Form 4.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages
of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person or those
chosen to become executive officers as of March 28, 2008.  Except as
otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years. 
Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing
year until removed or replaced.




ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information required by this Item is set
forth in the sections entitled Compensation Discussion and Analysis,
Compensation Committee Report, and Executive Compensation in the definitive
proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
  AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The following table provides information
regarding shares outstanding and available for issuance under the Company’s
existing equity compensation plans.

Equity
Compensation Plan Information

The remainder of the information required by
this Item is set forth in the Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock table in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS,
  AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.

This information required by this Item is set
forth in the sections entitled Related Person Transactions and Information
Concerning the Board of Directors-Independence in the definitive proxy
statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required by this Item is set
forth in the section entitled Selection of Auditors – Disclosure of Auditor
Fees in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into
this Form 10-K.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
  SCHEDULES.


* 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the
capacities indicated on the 1st of April 2008.


By:

(*Bruce
  M. Gack)

Bruce
  M. Gack

Attorney-in-fact


EXHIBIT INDEX


* 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

80