10-K


a09-36165_110k.htm

10-K

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010.

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from
                  
to

Commission file number 1-303

THE
KROGER CO.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code

(513) 762-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:

Title
  of each class

Name
  of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock $1 par value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of
the Act:

NONE

(Title of class)

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13
or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes

o

No

x

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of
this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that
the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes

x

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K (§299.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act). Yes

o

No

x

The
aggregate market value of the Common Stock of The Kroger Co. held by non-affiliates
as of August 15, 2009:  $13.7
billion.  There were 646,221,726 shares
of Common Stock ($1 par value) outstanding as of March 26, 2010.

Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Portions
of proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Exchange Act
on or before June 1, 2010, are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Form 10-K.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS.

The Kroger
Co. was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902. As of January 30, 2010,
the Company was one of the largest retailers in the United States based on
annual sales. The Company also manufactures and processes some of the food for
sale in its supermarkets. The Company’s principal executive offices are located
at 1014 Vine Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202, and its telephone number is (513)
762-4000. The Company maintains a web site (www.kroger.com) that includes
additional information about the Company. The Company makes available through
its web site, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, its
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its current reports on Form 8-K and
its interactive data files, including amendments. These forms are available as
soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has filed with, or furnished
them electronically to, the SEC.

The Company’s revenues are
earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in its
stores. The Company earns income predominantly by selling products at price
levels that produce revenues in excess of its costs to make these products
available to its customers. Such costs include procurement and distribution
costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses.  The Company’s fiscal year ends on the
Saturday closest to January 31.

E

MPLOYEES

As of January 30, 2010,
the Company employed approximately 334,000 full and part-time employees. A
majority of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining
agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several
different international unions. There are approximately 305 such agreements,
usually with terms of three to five years.

During 2010, the Company has
major labor contracts to be negotiated covering store employees in Albuquerque,
Cincinnati, Dallas, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Houston, Little Rock, Portland, Seattle
and Toledo.  The Company will also
negotiate agreements with the Teamsters for employees in California and
Portland.  Negotiations in 2010 will be
challenging as the Company must have competitive cost structures in each market
while meeting our associates’ needs for good wages, affordable health care and
increases in Company pension contributions.

S

TORES

As of January 30, 2010,
the Company operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,468
supermarkets and multi-department stores, 893 of which had fuel centers. 
Approximately 43% of these supermarkets were operated in Company-owned
facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land.  The
Company’s current strategy emphasizes self-development and ownership of store
real estate.  The Company’s stores operate under several banners that have
strong local ties and brand equity.  Supermarkets are generally operated
under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores (“combo
stores”); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact
warehouses.

The combo stores are the
primary food store format.  They typically draw customers from a 2 – 2½
mile radius.  The Company believes this format is successful because the
stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that customers
desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies,
general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh
seafood and organic produce.

Multi-department stores are
significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to the
departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a
wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and
furnishings, electronics, automotive products, toys and fine jewelry.

Marketplace stores are
smaller in size than multi-department stores. 
They offer full-service grocery and pharmacy departments as well as an
expanded general merchandise area that includes outdoor living products,
electronics, home goods and toys.

Price impact
warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost” warehouse format and feature
everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health
and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items
provide a competitive advantage. The average size of a price impact warehouse
store is similar to that of a combo store.

Many of the
stores mentioned above, with exception of the price impact warehouse stores,
include fuel centers.


In addition
to the supermarkets, as of January 30, 2010, the Company operated through
subsidiaries, 777 convenience stores and 374 fine jewelry stores.  All of our fine jewelry stores located in
malls are operated in leased locations.  In addition, 87 convenience
stores were operated through franchise agreements. Approximately 51% of the
convenience stores operated by subsidiaries were operated in Company-owned
facilities. The convenience stores offer a limited assortment of staple food
items and general merchandise and, in most cases, sell gasoline.

S

EGMENTS

The Company
operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores,
and convenience stores throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail
operations, which represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated
sales, earnings and total assets, are its only reportable segment.  All of
the Company’s operations are domestic. Revenues, profit and losses, and total
assets are shown in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements set forth
in Item 8 below.

M

ERCHANDISING
AND

M

ANUFACTURING

Corporate brand products play an important role in the
Company’s merchandising strategy.  Our supermarkets, on average, stock
approximately 11,000 private label items.  The Company’s corporate brand
products are produced and sold in three “tiers.” Private Selection is the
premium quality brand designed to be a unique item in a category or to meet or
beat the “gourmet” or “upscale” brands.  The “banner brand” (Kroger,
Ralphs, King Soopers, etc.), which represents the majority of the Company’s
private label items, is designed to satisfy customers with quality
products.  Before Kroger will carry a
banner brand product, the product quality must meet our customers’ expectations
in taste and efficacy, and we guarantee it. 
Kroger Value is the value brand, designed to deliver good quality at a
very affordable price.

Approximately 39% of the corporate brand units sold are
produced in the Company’s manufacturing plants; the remaining corporate brand
items are produced to the Company’s strict specifications by outside
manufacturers. The Company performs a “make or buy” analysis on corporate brand
products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer
prices versus open market purchases. As of January 30, 2010, the Company
operated 40 manufacturing plants. These plants consisted of 18 dairies, 10 deli
or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, three beverage plants, two meat
plants and two cheese plants.

E

XECUTIVE

O

FFICERS OF THE

R

EGISTRANT

The
disclosure regarding executive officers is set forth in Item 10 of Part III
of this Form 10-K under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company,”
and is incorporated herein by reference.

C

OMPETITIVE

E

NVIRONMENT

For
the disclosure related to the Company’s competitive environment, see Item 1A under
the heading “Competitive Environment”.


ITEM 1A.

RISK
FACTORS.

There are
risks and uncertainties that can affect our business.  The significant
risk factors are discussed below.  Please also see the “Outlook” section
in Item 7 of this Form 10-K for forward-looking statements and factors
that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations.

C

OMPETITIVE

E

NVIRONMENT

The
operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be
characterized by intense price competition, aggressive supercenter expansion,
increasing fragmentation of retail formats, entry of non-traditional
competitors and market consolidation.  We
have developed a strategic plan that we believe is a balanced approach that
will enable Kroger to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our
customers in this challenging economic environment.  However, the nature
and extent to which our competitors implement various pricing and promotional
activities in response to increasing competition, including our execution of
our strategic plan, and our response to these competitive actions, can
adversely affect our profitability.  Our
profitability and growth has been and could continue to be adversely affected
by changes in the overall economic environment that affect consumer spending,
including discretionary spending.

F

OOD

S

AFETY

Customers
count on Kroger to provide them with wholesome food products.  Concerns
regarding the safety of food products could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing
certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of
their food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside our
control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be
difficult and costly to reestablish.  Any issue regarding the safety of
food items sold by Kroger, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial
and adverse effect on our operations.

L

ABOR

R

ELATIONS

A majority of our employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our
relationship with those unions, including a prolonged work stoppage affecting
a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our
results.

We are a
party to approximately 305 collective bargaining agreements.  We have various labor agreements that will be
negotiated in 2010, covering store employees in Albuquerque, Cincinnati,
Dallas, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Houston, Little Rock, Portland, Seattle and Toledo.  We will also negotiate agreements with the Teamsters
for employees in California and Portland. 
Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by
the affected workers could occur if we are unable to negotiate new contracts
with labor unions.  A prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial
number of locations could have a material adverse effect on our results.  Further, if we are unable to control health
care, pension and wage costs, or gain operational flexibility under our collective
bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an
adverse effect on future results of operations.

S

TRATEGY

E

XECUTION

Our strategy
focuses on improving our customers’ shopping experiences through improved
service, product selection and price. 
Successful execution of this strategy requires a balance between sales
growth and earnings growth.  Maintaining this strategy requires the
ability to develop and execute plans to generate cost savings and productivity
improvements that can be invested in the merchandising and pricing initiatives
necessary to support our customer-focused programs, as well as recognizing and
implementing organizational changes as required.  If we are unable to
execute our plans, or if our plans fail to meet our customers’ expectations,
our sales and earnings growth could be adversely affected.

DATA AND
TECHNOLOGY

Our business
is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex
and vital to continuing operations.  If
we were to experience difficulties maintaining existing systems or implementing
new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our
operations.  Additionally, these systems
contain valuable proprietary and financial data and a breach could have an adverse
effect on Kroger.


I

NDEBTEDNESS

As of
year-end 2009, Kroger’s outstanding indebtedness, including capital leases and
financing obligations, totaled approximately $8.1 billion.  This indebtedness could reduce our ability to
obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes
and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive
pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing
debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the
interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs
and structure.

L

EGAL

P

ROCEEDINGS

From time to
time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving
personnel and employment issues, personal injury, antitrust claims and other
proceedings.  Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss
to Kroger in the event that other potentially responsible parties are unable
(for financial reasons or otherwise) to satisfy a judgment entered against
them.  Others purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of
similarly situated parties.  We estimate our exposure to these legal
proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is
reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable. 
Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial
uncertainties.  Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in
our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial results.  Please also refer to the “Legal
Proceedings” section in Item 3 below.

M

ULTI

-E

MPLOYER

P

ENSION

O

BLIGATIONS

As discussed in more detail
below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-

Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

,” Kroger contributes to
several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under
collective bargaining agreements with unions representing employees covered by
those agreements.  The funding status of most of those pension funds has
deteriorated

, since
year-end 2007

, and it is probable that the Company’s contributions
to those funds will increase significantly over the next several years.  A significant increase to those funding
requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows.  Despite the
fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or
responsibility of the Company, there is a risk that the agencies that rate
Kroger’s outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of
these plans unfavorably when determining their ratings on our debt
securities.  Any downgrading of Kroger’s debt ratings likely would
affect  Kroger’s cost of borrowing and
access to capital.

I

NSURANCE

We use a
combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability
for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director
and officers’ liability, and employee health care benefits.  Any actuarial
projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability.  
Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation
rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level
changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers,
and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results
of operations, or cash flows.

C

URRENT

E

CONOMIC

C

ONDITIONS

The global
economy and financial markets have declined and experienced volatility due to
uncertainties related to energy prices, availability of credit, difficulties in
the banking and financial services sectors, the decline in the housing market,
diminished market liquidity, falling consumer confidence and rising
unemployment rates.  As a result,
consumers are more cautious.  This led to
reduced consumer spending, to consumers switching to a less expensive mix of
products, and to consumers trading down to discounters for grocery items, all
of which has affected and could continue to affect our sales growth and
earnings.  In 2009, we experienced overall
deflation, excluding fuel.  In this uncertain
economy, it is difficult to forecast whether 2010 will be a period of inflation
or deflation.  Food deflation could
reduce sales growth and earnings, while food inflation, combined with reduced
consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins and earnings.  We are unable to predict when the global
economy and financial markets will improve. 
If the global economy and financial markets do not improve, or if they
worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely
affected.


W

EATHER

AND N

ATURAL

D

ISASTERS

A large
number of our stores and distribution facilities are geographically located in
areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, and
earthquakes.  Weather conditions and
natural disasters could disrupt our operations at one or more of our
facilities; could interrupt the delivery of products to our stores; could
substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials;
and could substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our
facilities or deliver products to our facilities.  Although our geographic diversity minimizes
the risk that a natural disaster will impair the operation of the Company as a
whole, adverse weather and natural disasters could materially affect our
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

G

OVERNMENT

R

EGULATION

Our stores are subject to various
laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business. We
must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and
sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity,
minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic
beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations,
administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they will have on our
operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing
business.  They also could require the reformulation of some of the products
that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new
standards.  We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of
products that cannot be reformulated.  These changes could result in
additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain
products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation. 
Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

ITEM 1B.

UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.

None.


ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES.

As of January 30, 2010,
the Company operated more than 3,500 owned or leased supermarkets, convenience
stores, fine jewelry stores, distribution warehouses and food processing
facilities through divisions, subsidiaries or affiliates. These facilities are
located throughout the United States. A majority of the properties used to
conduct the Company’s business are leased.

The Company
generally owns store equipment, fixtures and leasehold improvements, as well as
processing and manufacturing equipment. The total cost of the Company’s owned
assets and capitalized leases, at January 30, 2010, was $25.7 billion
while the accumulated depreciation was $11.7 billion.

Leased premises generally
have base terms ranging from ten-to-twenty years with renewal options for
additional periods. Some options provide the right to purchase the property
after conclusion of the lease term. Store rentals are normally payable monthly
at a stated amount or at a guaranteed minimum amount plus a percentage of sales
over a stated dollar volume. Rentals for the distribution, manufacturing and
miscellaneous facilities generally are payable monthly at stated amounts.  For additional information on lease
obligations, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS.

On March 9, 2010, the Company filed an action (

The Kroger Co., et al. v. Excentus Corporation

, Case No. 1:10-cv-00161-SSB,
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Western
Division at Cincinnati) seeking a declaration that the Company’s actions
related to fuel rewards programs do not infringe certain patents allegedly held
by Excentus Corporation and that certain patents allegedly held by Excentus
Corporation are invalid.  Shortly after
the Company filed the action, also on March 9, 2010, Excentus Corporation
filed an action against the Company (

Excentus Corporation v.
The Kroger Co.

, Case No. 3:10-cv-00483, in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division) seeking to
recover damages from the Company for its alleged infringement of patents
claimed to be held by Excentus Corporation, and seeking with injunctive relief
enjoining the Company from infringing the patents by reason of its actions
related to fuel reward programs. 
Although these lawsuits are subject to uncertainties inherent in the
litigation process and have only recently been filed, based on the information
available to the Company, management does not expect that the ultimate
resolution of these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

On October 6, 2006, the
Company petitioned the U.S. Tax Court (

In
Re: Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries, formerly known as Ralphs
Supermarkets, Inc., Docket No. 20364-06

) for a
redetermination of deficiencies set by the Commissioner of Internal
Revenue.  The dispute at issue involves a
1992 transaction in which Ralphs Holding Company acquired the stock of Ralphs
Grocery Company and made an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the
Internal Revenue Code.  The Commissioner
has determined that the acquisition of the stock was not a purchase as defined
by Section 338(h)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and that the
acquisition does not qualify as a purchase. 
The Company believes that it has strong arguments in favor of its
position and believes it is more likely than not that its position will be
sustained.  However, due to the inherent
uncertainty involved in the litigation process, there can be no assurances that
the Tax Court will rule in favor of the Company.  A decision on this case is expected within
the next 12 months.  As of January 30,
2010, an adverse decision would require a cash payment of up to approximately
$488 million, including interest. Any accounting implications of an adverse
decision in this case would be charged through the statement of operations.

On February 2, 2004, the
Attorney General for the State of California filed an action in Los Angeles
federal court (

California, ex rel Lockyer v.
Safeway, Inc. dba Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc. and
Ralphs Grocery Company, a division of The Kroger Co.

, United States
District Court Central District of California, Case No. CV04-0687)
alleging that the Mutual Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between
the Company, Albertson’s, Inc. and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”),
which was designed to prevent the union from placing disproportionate pressure
on one or more of the Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the
other Retailer(s) during a labor dispute in southern California, violated Section 1
of the Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and injunctive relief. On May 28,
2008, pursuant to a stipulation between the parties, the court entered a final
judgment in favor of the defendants.  As
a result of the stipulation and final judgment, there are no further claims to
be litigated at the trial court level. 
The Attorney General has appealed a trial court ruling to the Ninth
Circuit Court of Appeals and the defendants are appealing a separate
ruling.  Although this lawsuit is subject
to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process, based on the information
presently available to the Company, management does not expect that the
ultimate resolution of this action will have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.


Various
claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of business, including suits
charging violations of certain antitrust, wage and hour, or civil rights laws,
as well as product liability cases, are pending against the Company.  Some of these suits purport or have been
determined to be class actions and/or seek substantial damages. Any damages
that may be awarded in antitrust cases will be automatically trebled. Although
it is not possible at this time to evaluate the merits of all of these claims
and lawsuits, nor their likelihood of success, the Company is of the belief
that any resulting liability will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The Company
continually evaluates its exposure to loss contingencies arising from pending
or threatened litigation and believes it has made provisions where it is
reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable.  Nonetheless, assessing and predicting the
outcomes of these matters involve substantial uncertainties. It remains
possible that despite management’s current belief, material differences in
actual outcomes or changes in management’s evaluation or predictions could
arise that could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial
condition, results of operations, or cash flows.

ITEM 4.

(REMOVED AND RESERVED).

PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON
  EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
  SECURITIES.

(a)

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

P

RICE

R

ANGE

Main trading market: New York Stock Exchange
(Symbol KR)

Number of shareholders of record at year-end 2009:

41,307

Number of shareholders of record at March 26, 2010:

40,478

During
2008, the Company paid one quarterly dividend of $0.075 and three quarterly
dividends of $0.09.  During 2009, the
Company paid three quarterly dividends of $0.09 and one quarterly dividend of
$0.095.  On March 1, 2010, the
Company paid a quarterly dividend of $0.095 per share.  On March 10, 2010, the Company announced
that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.095 per
share, payable on June 1, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of
business on May 14, 2010.

PERFORMANCE
GRAPH

Set forth
below is a line graph comparing the five-year cumulative total shareholder
return on Kroger’s common stock, based on the market price of the common stock
and assuming reinvestment of dividends, with the cumulative total return of
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index and a peer group
composed of food and drug companies.

Historically, our peer group has consisted of the
major food store companies.  In recent years there have been significant
changes in the industry, including consolidation and increased competition from
supercenters, drug chains, and discount stores.  As a result, several
years ago we changed our peer group  to include companies operating
supermarkets, supercenters and warehouse clubs in the United States as well as
the major drug chains with which Kroger competes.  Last year, we changed
our peer group (the “Peer Group”) once again to add Tesco plc, as it has become
a competitor in the U.S. market.


Kroger’s fiscal year ends on
the Saturday closest to January 31.

*

Total assumes $100
invested on January 30, 2005, in The Kroger Co., S&P 500 Index, and
the Peer Group, with reinvestment of dividends.

**

The Peer Group consists of Albertson’s, Inc.,
Costco Wholesale Corp., CVS Corp, Delhaize Group SA (ADR), Great Atlantic &
Pacific Tea Company, Inc., Koninklijke Ahold NV (ADR), Marsh Supermarkets
Inc. (Class A), Safeway, Inc., Supervalu Inc., Target Corp., Tesco
plc, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Walgreen Co., Whole Foods Market Inc. and Winn-Dixie
Stores, Inc.  Albertson’s, Inc., was substantially acquired by
Supervalu in July 2006, and is included through 2005.  Marsh
Supermarkets was acquired by Marsh Supermarkets Holding Corp. in September 2006,
and is included through 2005.  Winn-Dixie emerged from bankruptcy in 2006
as a new issue and returns for the old and new issue were calculated then
weighted to determine the 2006 return.

Data supplied by Standard & Poor’s.

The foregoing Performance Graph will not be deemed
incorporated by reference into any other filing, absent an express reference thereto.


(c)

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

ITEM
6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

*Certain prior year amounts have been revised or reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation. 
For further information, see note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.


ITEM
  7.

MANAGEMENT’S
  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

O

UR

B

USINESS

The Kroger Co. was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.
It is one of the nation’s largest retailers, as measured by revenue, operating
2,468 supermarket and multi-department stores under two dozen banners including
Kroger, Ralphs, Fred Meyer, Food 4 Less, King Soopers, Smith’s, Fry’s, Fry’s
Marketplace, Dillons, QFC and City Market.  Of these stores, 893 have fuel
centers.  We also operate 777 convenience stores and 374 fine jewelry
stores.

Kroger
operates 40 manufacturing plants, primarily bakeries and dairies, which supply
approximately 39% of the corporate brand units sold in our retail outlets.

Our
revenues are earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to
customers in our stores.  We earn income predominately by selling products
at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs we incur to make
these products available to our customers.  Such costs include procurement
and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead
expenses.  Our operations are reported as a single reportable segment: the
retail sale of merchandise to individual customers.

O

UR

2009 P

ERFORMANCE

By focusing on the customer
through our Customer 1

st

strategy, we were able to report solid results
in 2009 (

excluding the non-cash asset impairment charges totaling $1.14 billion,
pre-tax ($1.05 billion, after-tax), related to our division in southern
California)

during
what continues to be a difficult operating environment.  In 2009, our identical supermarket sales
increased 2.1%, excluding fuel.  Our 2009
earnings were $0.11 per diluted share or $1.71 per diluted share, excluding the
non-cash asset impairment charges referred to above.  We did not achieve our original goals for
identical supermarket sales growth of 3% to 4% and earnings per share of $2.00
to $2.05 per diluted share, as cautious consumers, significant deflation, and
intense competition affected margins and sales growth.  Nonetheless, we strengthened our overall
competitive position by increasing the number of households that are loyal to
Kroger and we are earning a greater share of their business.  As a result, we continue to generate tonnage
growth in both perishable and non-perishable categories that is among the
strongest in the industry.  Sustainable
identical sales and earnings growth remains one of our key long-term
objectives.  We continue to widen the gap
between our identical supermarkets sales growth trends and those of several of
our competitors.  We believe this has
extremely positive implications for our associates, customers and shareholders
now and as we grow our business in the future.

Market share is an
important part of our long-term strategy. 
Market share is important to us because it allows us to leverage the
fixed costs in our business over a wider revenue base.  Our fundamental operating philosophy is to
maintain and increase market share. 
Based on Nielsen Homescan Data, our estimated market share increased in
total by approximately 60 basis points in 2009 across the 17 divisions in which
we operate.  Nielsen Homescan Data
includes scanned products across many retail channels, not including restaurants.  This information also indicates that our
market share increased in 13 of the divisions, declined in three, and remained
unchanged in one.  These market share
results are consistent with our long-term strategy.


R

ESULTS OF

O

PERATIONS

The following discussion summarizes our operating results for
2009 compared to 2008 and for 2008 compared to 2007.  Comparability is
affected by  income and expense items
that fluctuated significantly between and among the periods.

Net Earnings

Net
earnings totaled $70 million for 2009, compared to net earnings totaling $1.2
billion in each of 2008 and 2007.  The
net earnings for 2009 include non-cash asset impairment charges totaling $1.05
billion, after-tax, related to a division in southern California (the “non-cash
impairment charges”).  The impairment
primarily resulted from the write-off of the Ralphs division goodwill
balance.  Excluding these impairment
charges, adjusted net earnings for the year would have been $1.1 billion.  Additionally, the decrease in net earnings
for 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower retail fuel margins and
decreased operating profit, partially offset by a LIFO charge of $49 million
pre-tax, compared to a LIFO charge of $196 million pre-tax in 2008.  2008 net earnings also included after-tax
costs of $16 million from disruption and damage caused by Hurricane Ike.  The slight increase in our net earnings for
2008, compared to 2007, resulted from strong non-fuel identical supermarket
sales growth and strong fuel results.

Management
believes adjusted net earnings (and adjusted earnings per share) in 2009 are
useful metrics to investors and analysts because impairment charges are
non-recurring, non-cash charges that are not directly related to our day-to-day
business.  We also excluded these charges
from our incentive plan calculations for the year.

earnings per diluted share totaled $0.11 and 2009 adjusted earnings per diluted
share totaled $1.71, compared to $1.89 in 2008, or $1.91, excluding the $.02
per diluted share for costs for damage and disruption caused by Hurricane Ike,
and $1.73 in 2007.  The decline in
adjusted net earnings per share in 2009, compared to 2008, resulted from lower
retail fuel margins and decreased operating profit, partially offset by lower
LIFO charges and after-tax costs of $16 million from disruption and damage
caused by Hurricane Ike in 2008.  Our
earnings per share growth in 2008, compared to 2007, resulted from increased
net earnings, strong identical sales growth and the repurchase of Kroger stock.

Sales

Total Sales

(in
millions)

(1)

Other sales primarily relate to sales at convenience
stores, including fuel, jewelry stores, sales by our manufacturing plants to
outside customers, and variable interest entities.

The slight increase in total sales and the decrease in
other sales and total supermarket fuel sales for 2009 compared to 2008 was
attributable to the year-over-year decline in retail fuel prices.  The change in our total supermarket sales
without fuel for 2009 over 2008 was primarily the result of increases in
identical supermarket sales and retail square footage.  Identical supermarket sales, excluding fuel,
increased due to increased transaction count offset partially by a lower
average sale per shopping trip.

We define a
supermarket as identical when it has been in operation without expansion or
relocation for five full quarters.  Fuel
center discounts received at our fuel centers and earned based on in-store
purchases are included in all of the supermarket identical sales results
calculations illustrated below.  Differences between total supermarket
sales and identical supermarket sales primarily relate to changes in
supermarket square footage.  Identical
supermarket sales include all sales at identical Fred Meyer multi-department
stores.  We calculate annualized
identical supermarket sales by adding together four quarters of identical
supermarket sales.  Our identical supermarket sales results are summarized
in the table below, based on the 52-week period of 2009, compared to the
52-week period of the previous year.  The
identical store count in the table below represents the total number of
identical supermarkets as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.


Identical Supermarket Sales

(dollars
in millions)

We define a
supermarket as comparable when it has been in operation for five full quarters,
including expansions and relocations.  As
is the case for identical supermarket sales, fuel center discounts received at
our fuel centers and earned based on in-store purchases are included in all of
the supermarket comparable sales results calculations illustrated below.  Comparable supermarket sales include all
sales at comparable Fred Meyer multi-department stores.  We calculate annualized comparable
supermarket sales by adding together four quarters of comparable sales. 
Our annualized comparable supermarket sales results are summarized in the table
below, based on the 52-week period of 2009, compared to the same 52-week period
of the previous year.  The comparable
store count in the table below represents the total number of comparable
supermarkets as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.

Comparable Supermarket Sales

(dollars
in millions)

FIFO Gross Margin

We calculate First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) Gross Margin
as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing and
transportation, but excluding the Last-In, First-Out (“LIFO”) charge.  Merchandise costs exclude depreciation and
rent expense. FIFO gross margin is an important measure used by management to
evaluate merchandising and operational effectiveness.

Our FIFO
gross margin rates, as a percentage of sales, were 23.23% in 2009, 23.38% in
2008 and 23.86% in 2007.  Our retail fuel
sales reduce our FIFO gross margin rate due to the very low FIFO gross margin
on retail fuel sales as compared to non-fuel sales.  Excluding the effect of retail fuel
operations, our FIFO gross margin rates decreased 58 basis points in 2009 and
19 basis points in 2008.  The decrease in
our non-fuel FIFO gross margin rate since 2007 reflects our continued
investments in our Customer 1

st

strategy. 
In addition, FIFO gross margin in 2009, compared to 2008, decreased due
to heightened competitive activity and deflation, partially offset by
improvements in shrink, advertising, and warehousing and transportation
expenses, as a percentage of sales.

LIFO Charge

The LIFO
charge was $49 million in 2009, $196 million in 2008 and $108 million in
2007.

The
LIFO charge in 2009, compared to 2008, decreased primarily due to a decrease in
annualized product cost inflation for those categories of inventory on the LIFO
method of valuation for 2009 compared to 2008. 
The last three quarters of 2009 experienced product cost deflation,
excluding fuel.  In 2009, our LIFO charge
primarily resulted from product cost inflation related to tobacco products and
pharmacy.

An
increase in product cost inflation caused the increase in the LIFO charge in
2008, compared to 2007.

We revised
our 2007 LIFO charge by $46 million pre-tax ($29 million after-tax).  This revision was made to account for certain
promotional allowances in our LIFO indices in 2007.  We believe this adjustment is not material to
any individual year or any quarterly period within such years presented.  See footnote 1 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information.

Operating, General and Administrative Expenses

Operating,
general and administrative (“OG&A”) expenses consist primarily of
employee-related costs such as wages, health care benefit costs and retirement
plan costs, utilities and credit card fees. 
Rent expense, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest
expense are not included in OG&A.


OG&A
expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 17.46% in 2009, 17.14% in 2008 and
17.44% in 2007.  The growth in our retail fuel sales reduces our OG&A
rate due to the very low OG&A rate on retail fuel sales as compared to
non-fuel sales.  OG&A expenses, as a
percentage of sales excluding fuel, decreased 3 basis points in 2009, compared
to 2008.  OG&A expenses, as a
percentage of sales excluding fuel and the effect of Hurricane Ike in 2008,
decreased 3 basis points in 2008, compared to 2007.  The 2009 decrease, compared to 2008, resulted
primarily from increased supermarket identical sales growth, a reduction in bag
expense, lower incentive compensation, and reduced utility costs.  These improvements were partially offset by
increases in credit card fees, health care costs, and wages.  Wage expenses have increased due to increased
hours worked and lower employee turnover, in the current economic environment,
which has resulted in increased average hourly wages.  The decrease in our OG&A rate in 2008,
excluding the effect of retail fuel and the effect of Hurricane Ike in 2008,
compared to 2007, was primarily the result of increased identical supermarkets
sales growth and a settlement received from credit card processers, partially
offset by  increases in credit card fees
and health care costs.

Rent Expense

Rent expense
was $648 million in 2009, as compared to $659 million in 2008 and $643 million
in 2007.  Rent expense, as a percentage of sales, was 0.84% in 2009, as
compared to 0.87% in 2008 and 0.91% in 2007. 
The decrease in rent expense, as a percentage of sales, reflects our
continued emphasis on owning rather than leasing, whenever possible.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

Depreciation
and amortization expense was $1.5 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008 and
2007.  The increase in depreciation and
amortization expense in 2009, compared to 2008 and 2007, was the result of
additional depreciation on capital expenditures, including prior acquisitions
and the prior purchase of leased facilities, totaling $2.4 billion in 2009,
$2.2 billion in 2008 and $2.1 billion in 2007. 
Depreciation and amortization expense, as a percentage of sales, was
1.99% in 2009, 1.89% in 2008 and 1.93% in 2007. 
The increase in our depreciation and amortization expense in 2009,
compared to 2008, as a percentage of sales, is primarily due to increased
depreciation expense, and a slower growth rate in sales due to heightened
competitive activity, deflation and year-over-year decline in retail fuel
prices.  The decrease in depreciation and
amortization expense in 2008, compared to 2007, as a percentage of sales, is
primarily the result of increasing sales.

Interest Expense

Net interest expense
totaled $502 million in 2009, $485 million in 2008 and $474 million in
2007.  The increase in interest expense
in 2009, compared to 2008,

resulted primarily from a higher weighted
average interest rate and a reduction in interest income, offset partially by
our benefit from interest rate swaps.

The increase in interest expense in 2008,
compared to 2007, was primarily the result of an increase in the average total
debt balance for the year, partially offset by interest income related to the
mark-to-market of ineffective fair value swaps.

Income Taxes

Our
effective income tax rate was 90.4% in 2009, 36.5% in 2008 and 35.2% in
2007.  The 2009 effective income tax rate
differed from the federal statutory rate primarily due to the goodwill
impairment charge being mostly non-deductible for tax purposes.  Excluding the non-cash impairment charges,
our effective rate in 2009 was 35.8%. 
The 2008 and 2007 effective tax rates differed from the federal
statutory rate primarily due to the effect of state income taxes.  In addition, the effective tax rates for 2009
and 2007 differ from the expected federal statutory rate due to the resolution
of some tax issues with the taxing authorities.

C

OMMON

S

TOCK

R

EPURCHASE

P

ROGRAM

We maintain stock repurchase programs that comply with
Securities Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 and allow for the orderly repurchase
of our common stock, from time to time.  We made open market purchases of
Kroger stock totaling $156 million in 2009, $448 million in 2008 and $1.2
billion in 2007 under these repurchase programs.  In addition to these
repurchase programs, in December 1999 we began a program to repurchase
common stock to reduce dilution resulting from our employee stock option
plans.  This program is solely funded by proceeds from stock option
exercises, and the tax benefit from these exercises.  We repurchased
approximately $62 million in 2009, $189 million in 2008 and $270 million in
2007 of Kroger stock under the stock option program.

In 2009 and 2008, to preserve liquidity and financial
flexibility, we reduced the amount of stock repurchased during the year,
decreasing the cash used for stock purchases in 2009 and 2008, compared to
2007.


C

APITAL

E

XPENDITURES

Capital
expenditures, including changes in construction-in-progress payables and
excluding acquisitions and the purchase of leased facilities, totaled $2.2
billion in 2009 compared to $2.1 billion in 2008 and 2007.  The increase
in capital spending in 2009 compared to 2008 and 2007 was the result of
increasing our focus on merchandising and productivity projects.  During 2009, capital expenditures for the
purchase of leased facilities totaled $164 million compared to $27 million for
2008.  This increase was due to Kroger
purchasing several previously leased retail stores, one office building and one
distribution center at very attractive rates during 2009.  The table below shows our supermarket storing
activity and our total food store square footage:

Supermarket Storing Activity

C

RITICAL

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are
appropriate to report accurately and fairly our operating results and financial
position, and we apply those accounting policies in a consistent manner. 
Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosures of
contingent assets and liabilities.  We base our estimates on historical
experience and other factors we believe to be reasonable under the
circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about
the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

We believe that the following
accounting policies are the most critical in the preparation of our financial
statements because they involve the most difficult, subjective or complex
judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.

Self-Insurance Costs

We primarily are self-insured
for costs related to workers’ compensation and general liability claims. 
The liabilities represent our best estimate, using generally accepted actuarial
reserving methods, of the ultimate obligations for reported claims plus those
incurred but not reported for all claims incurred through January 30,
2010.  We establish case reserves for reported claims using case-basis
evaluation of the underlying claim data and we update as information becomes
known.

For both workers’
compensation and general liability claims, we have purchased stop-loss coverage
to limit our exposure to any significant exposure on a per claim basis. 
We are insured for covered costs in excess of these per claim limits.  We
account for the liabilities for workers’ compensation claims on a present value
basis utilizing a risk-adjusted discount rate.  A 25 basis point decrease
in our discount rate would increase our liability by approximately $5
million.  General liability claims are not discounted.

We are also similarly
self-insured for property-related losses.  We have purchased stop-loss
coverage to limit our exposure to losses in excess of $25 million on a per
claim basis, except in the case of an earthquake, for which stop-loss coverage
is in excess of $50 million per claim, up to $200 million per claim in
California and $300 million outside of California.


The assumptions underlying
the ultimate costs of existing claim losses are subject to a high degree of
unpredictability, which can affect the liability recorded for such
claims.  For example, variability in inflation rates of health care costs
inherent in these claims can affect the amounts realized.  Similarly,
changes in legal trends and interpretations, as well as a change in the nature
and method of how claims are settled can affect ultimate costs.  Our
estimates of liabilities incurred do not anticipate significant changes in
historical trends for these variables, and any changes could have a
considerable effect on future claim costs and currently recorded liabilities.

Impairments of Long-Lived Assets

We monitor
the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter
based on whether certain trigger events have occurred.  These events
include current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection
of continuing losses or a significant decrease in the market value of an
asset.  When a trigger event occurs, we perform an impairment calculation,
comparing projected undiscounted cash flows, utilizing current cash flow
information and expected growth rates related to specific stores, to the
carrying value for those stores.  If we identify impairment for long-lived
assets to be held and used, we compare the assets’ current carrying value to
the assets’ fair value.  Fair value is
determined based on market values or discounted future cash flows.  We record impairment when the carrying value
exceeds fair market value.  With respect
to owned property and equipment held for disposal, we adjust the value of the
property and equipment to reflect recoverable values based on our previous
efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions.  We
recognize impairment for the excess of the carrying value over the estimated
fair market value, reduced by estimated direct costs of disposal.  We recorded asset impairments in the normal
course of business totaling $48 million in 2009, $26 million in 2008 and $24
million in 2007.  Included in the 2009
amount are asset impairments recorded totaling $24 million for a southern
California reporting unit.  We record
costs to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations as “Operating, general and administrative” expense.

The factors that most
significantly affect the impairment calculation are our estimates of future
cash flows.  Our cash flow projections look several years into the future
and include assumptions on variables such as inflation, the economy and market
competition.  Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such
as reviewing long-lived assets for impairment at a different level, could
produce significantly different results.

Goodwill

Our goodwill totaled $1.2
billion as of January 30, 2010.  We
review goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, and also upon
the occurrence of triggering events.  We perform reviews of each of our
operating divisions and variable interest entities with goodwill balances.  Fair value is determined using a multiple of
earnings, or discounted projected future cash flows, and we compare fair value
to the carrying value of a reporting unit for purposes of identifying potential
impairment.  We base projected future cash flows on management’s knowledge
of the current operating environment and expectations for the future.  If
we identify potential for impairment, we measure the fair value of a division
against the fair value of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding
goodwill, to estimate an implied fair value of the division’s goodwill. 
We recognize goodwill impairment for any excess of the carrying value of the
division’s goodwill over the implied fair value.

In the third quarter of 2009, our operating
performance suffered due to persistent deflation and intense competition.  Based on our revised forecast, during the
third quarter of 2009, and the initial results of our 2010 annual budget
process for the supermarket reporting units, management believed that there
were circumstances evident to warrant impairment testing at these reporting
units.  We did not test for impairment
our variable interest entities with recorded goodwill balances as no triggering
event occurred.  The Ralphs reporting
unit in Southern California was the only reporting unit for which there was a
potential impairment.  The operating
performance of the Ralphs reporting unit was significantly affected by economic
conditions and responses to competitive actions in Southern California.  As a result of this decline in current and
future expected cash flows, along with comparable fair value information,
management concluded that the carrying value of goodwill for the Ralphs
reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value, resulting in an  impairment charge.  Subsequent to the impairment, no goodwill
remains at the Ralphs reporting unit. 
Management used an equal weighting of discounted cash flows and a
sales-weighted EBITDA multiple to estimate fair value.  The discounted cash flows assume long-term
sales growth rates comparable to historical performances and a discount rate of
11%.  In addition, the EBITDA multiples
observed in the marketplace declined since those used in the January 31,
2009 assessment.  We performed our annual
assessment in the fourth quarter for all supermarket and Variable Interest
Entity (“VIE”) reporting units with goodwill balances.  Based on current and future expected cash
flows, we believe additional goodwill impairments are not reasonably
possible.  A 10% reduction in fair value
of our reporting units would not indicate a potential for impairment of our
remaining goodwill balance, except for one supermarket reporting unit and one
VIE reporting unit with recorded goodwill of $19 million and $102 million,
respectively.


For
additional information relating to our results of the goodwill impairment
reviews performed during 2009, 2008 and 2007 see Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

The impairment review requires the extensive use of
management judgment and financial estimates. Application of alternative
estimates and assumptions, such as reviewing goodwill for impairment at a
different level, could produce significantly different results.  The cash
flow projections embedded in our goodwill impairment reviews can be affected by
several factors such as inflation, business valuations in the market, the
economy and market competition.

Store Closing Costs

We provide
for closed store liabilities on the basis of the present value of the estimated
remaining noncancellable lease payments after the closing date, net of
estimated subtenant income.  We estimate the net lease liabilities using a
discount rate to calculate the present value of the remaining net rent payments
on closed stores.  We usually pay closed store lease liabilities over the
lease terms associated with the closed stores, which generally have remaining
terms ranging from one to 20 years.  Adjustments to closed store
liabilities primarily relate to changes in subtenant income and actual exit
costs differing from original estimates.  We make adjustments for changes
in estimates in the period in which the change becomes known.  We review
store closing liabilities quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount that is
not a sufficient estimate of future costs, or that no longer is needed for its
originally intended purpose, is adjusted to earnings in the proper period.

We estimate subtenant income,
future cash flows and asset recovery values based on our experience and
knowledge of the market in which the closed store is located, our previous
efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions.  The
ultimate cost of the disposition of the leases and the related assets is
affected by current real estate markets, inflation rates and general economic
conditions.

We reduce owned stores held
for disposal to their estimated net realizable value.  We account for
costs to reduce the carrying values of property, equipment and leasehold
improvements in accordance with our policy on impairment of long-lived
assets.  We classify inventory write-downs in connection with store closings,
if any, in “Merchandise costs.”  We expense costs to transfer inventory
and equipment from closed stores as they are incurred.

Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

(a) Company-sponsored defined benefit
Pension Plans

We account
for our defined benefit pension plans using the recognition and disclosure
provisions of GAAP, which require the recognition of the funded status of
retirement plans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  We record, as a component of Accumulated
Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), actuarial gains or losses, prior service
costs or credits and transition obligations that have not yet been
recognized.  We adopted the measurement
date provisions of GAAP effective February 3, 2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are measured as of our fiscal year
end.  The non-cash effect of the adoption
of the measurement date provisions of GAAP decreased shareowners’ equity by
approximately $5 million ($3 million after-tax) and increased long-term
liabilities by approximately $5 million. 
There was no effect on our results of operations.

The
determination of our obligation and expense for Company-sponsored pension plans
and other post-retirement benefits is dependent upon our selection of
assumptions used by actuaries in calculating those amounts.  Those
assumptions are described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and include, among others, the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of
return on plan assets, average life expectancy and the rate of increases in
compensation and health care costs.  Actual results that differ from our
assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore,
generally affect our recognized expense and recorded obligation in future
periods.  While we believe that our assumptions are appropriate,
significant differences in our actual experience or significant changes in our
assumptions, including the discount rate used and the expected return on plan
assets, may materially affect our pension and other post-retirement obligations
and our future expense.  Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
discusses the effect of a 1% change in the assumed health care cost trend rate
on other post-retirement benefit costs and the related liability.


The objective of our discount
rate assumptions was intended to reflect the rates at which the pension
benefits could be effectively settled.  In making this determination, we
take into account the timing and amount of benefits that would be available
under the plans. Our methodology for selecting the discount rates as of
year-end 2009 was to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a yield curve that
provides the equivalent yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each
maturity.  Benefit cash flows due in a particular year can theoretically
be “settled” by “investing” them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in the
same year.  The discount rates are the single rates that produce the same
present value of cash flows.  The selection of the 6.00% and 5.80%
discount rates as of year-end 2009 for pension and other benefits,
respectively, represent the equivalent single rates constructed under a
broad-market AA yield curve.  We utilized
a discount rate of 7.00% for year-end 2008 for both pension and other
benefits.  A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would decrease
the projected pension benefit obligation as of January 30, 2010, by
approximately $317 million.

To determine the expected
return on pension plan assets, we consider current and forecasted plan asset
allocations as well as historical and forecasted returns on various asset
categories.  For 2009 and 2008, we assumed a pension plan investment
return rate of 8.5%.  Our pension plan’s average return was 5.9% for the
10 calendar years ended December 31, 2009, net of all investment
management fees and expenses.  The value of all investments in our
Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans during the calendar year ending
December 31, 2009, net of investment management fees and expenses,
increased 23.8%, primarily due to the strength of the market in 2009.  We
believe our 8.5% pension return assumption is appropriate.  For the past 20 years, our average annual
return has been 10.0%.  The average
annual return for the S&P 500 over the same period of time has been
9.3%.  In addition, forward looking
assumptions for investments made in a manner consistent with our target
allocations indicate an 8.5% return assumption is reasonable.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information on the asset allocations of pension plan
assets.

Sensitivity to changes in the
major assumptions used in the calculation of Kroger’s pension plan liabilities
for the qualified plans is illustrated below (in millions).

Percentage

Point Change

Projected Benefit

Obligation

Decrease/(Increase)

Expense

Decrease/(Increase)

Discount Rate

+/-
  1.0

%

$

317/($383

)

$

11/($29

)

Expected Return on Assets

+/-
  1.0

%

—

$

23/($23

)

We contributed $265 million
in 2009, $20 million in 2008 and $52 million in 2007 to our Company-sponsored
defined benefit pension plans.

Although we are not required to make cash
contributions to Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans during 2010,
we expect to contribute approximately $110 million to these plans in 2010.  Additional contributions may be made if
required under the Pension Protection Act to avoid any benefit restrictions.  We expect any elective contributions made during
2010 will decrease our required contributions in future years.

Among other things,
investment performance of plan assets, the interest rates required to be used
to calculate the pension obligations, and future changes in legislation, will
determine the amounts of any additional contributions.

We
contributed and expensed $115 million in 2009, $92 million in 2008 and $90
million in 2007 to employee 401(k) retirement savings accounts.  The 401(k) retirement savings account
plan provides to eligible employees both matching contributions and automatic
contributions from the Company based on participant contributions, plan
compensation, and length of service.

(b) Multi-Employer Plans

We also contribute to various
multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising from most of our
collective bargaining agreements.  These plans provide retirement benefits
to participants based on their service to contributing employers.  The
benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose.  Trustees
are appointed in equal number by employers and unions.  The trustees
typically are responsible for determining the level of benefits to be provided
to participants as well as for such matters as the investment of the assets and
the administration of the plans.

We recognize expense in
connection with these plans as contributions are funded, in accordance with
GAAP.  We made contributions to these plans, and recognized expense, of
$233 million in 2009, $219 million in 2008 and $207 million in 2007.


Based on the most recent
information available to us, we believe that the present value of actuarially
accrued liabilities in most or all of these multi-employer plans substantially
exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits.  We have
attempted to estimate the amount by which these liabilities exceed the assets,
(i.e., the amount of underfunding), as of December 31, 2009.  Because
Kroger is only one of a number of employers contributing to these plans, we
also have attempted to estimate the ratio of Kroger’s contributions to the
total of all contributions to these plans in a year as a way of assessing
Kroger’s “share” of the underfunding.  Nonetheless, the underfunding is
not a direct obligation or liability of Kroger or of any employer.  As of December 31, 2009, we estimate
that Kroger’s share of the underfunding of multi-employer plans to which Kroger
contributes was $2.7 billion, pre-tax, or $1.7 billion, after-tax.  This
represents a decrease in the estimated amount of underfunding of $380 million,
pre-tax, or $238 million, after-tax, as of December 31, 2009, compared to December 31,
2008.  The decrease in the amount of
underfunding is attributable to the strength of the market during the last year
and benefit reductions.  Our estimate is
based on the most current information available to us including actuarial
evaluations and other data (that include the estimates of others), and such
information may be outdated or otherwise unreliable.  Our estimate is
imprecise and not necessarily reliable.

We have made and disclosed
this estimate not because this underfunding is a direct liability of
Kroger.  Rather, we believe the underfunding is likely to have important
consequences.  In 2009, our contributions
to these plans increased approximately 6% over the prior year and have grown at
a compound annual rate of approximately 6% since 2004.  In 2010, we expect to contribute
approximately $250 million to our multi-employer pension plans, subject to
collective bargaining and capital market conditions.  Based on current market conditions, we expect
meaningful increases in funding and in expense as a result of increases in
multi-employer pension plan contributions over the next five years, but we
believe it is unlikely that contributions will double during that period, which
is a change from our estimate at year-end 2008.   Finally, underfunding means that, in the
event we were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions
to these funds, we could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. Any
adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a
liability exists and can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with GAAP.

The amount of underfunding
described above is an estimate and could change based on contract negotiations,
returns on the assets held in the multi-employer plans and benefit
payments.  The amount could decline, and
Kroger’s future expense would be favorably affected, if the values of the
assets held in the trust significantly increase or if further changes occur
through collective bargaining, trustee action or favorable legislation. 
On the other hand, Kroger’s share of the underfunding could increase and Kroger’s
future expense could be adversely affected if the asset values decline, if
employers currently contributing to these funds cease participation or if
changes occur through collective bargaining, trustee action or adverse
legislation.

Deferred Rent

We recognize
rent holidays, including the time period during which we have access to the
property for construction of buildings or improvements, as well as construction
allowances and escalating rent provisions on a straight-line basis over the
term of the lease.  The deferred amount is included in Other Current
Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Uncertain Tax Positions

Effective February 4,
2007, we adopted new standards for accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes.  These standards prescribe a
recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return.  These standards also
provide guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting
in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.

Various
taxing authorities periodically audit our income tax returns.  These
audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the
timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income to various tax
jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposures connected with these various
tax filing positions, including state and local taxes, we record allowances for
probable exposures.  A number of years may elapse before a particular matter,
for which an allowance has been established, is audited and fully
resolved.  As of January 30, 2010, the most recent examination
concluded by the Internal Revenue Service covered the years 2002 through 2004.

The assessment of our tax position relies on the
judgment of management to estimate the exposures associated with its various
filing positions.


Share-Based Compensation Expense

We account for stock
options under the fair value recognition provisions of GAAP.  Under this method, we recognize compensation
expense for all share-based payments granted after January 29, 2006, as
well as all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29,
2006.  We recognize share-based
compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the requisite
service period of the award.  In
addition, we record expense for restricted stock awards in an amount equal to
the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date of the award,
over the period the award restrictions lapse.

Inventories

Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost (principally on a LIFO basis) or market. 
In total, approximately 97% in 2009 and 98% in 2008 of inventories were valued
using the LIFO method. Cost for the balance of the inventories was determined
using the FIFO method.  Replacement cost was higher than the carrying
amount by $803 million at January 30, 2010, and by $754 million at January 31,
2009.  We follow the Link-Chain,
Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of calculating our LIFO charge or credit.

We
follow the item-cost method of accounting to determine inventory cost before
the LIFO adjustment for substantially all store inventories at our supermarket
divisions.  This method involves counting each item in inventory,
assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual purchase costs (net
of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and recording the cost of
items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting allows for more accurate
reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables management to more
precisely manage inventory and purchasing levels when compared to the methodology
followed under the retail method of accounting.

We evaluate inventory
shortages throughout the year based on actual physical counts in our
facilities.  We record allowances for inventory shortages based on the
results of recent physical counts to provide for estimated shortages from the
last physical count to the financial statement date.

Vendor Allowances

We
recognize all vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs when the
related product is sold.  In most cases, vendor allowances are applied to
the related product cost by item, and therefore reduce the carrying value of
inventory by item.  When it is not practicable to allocate vendor
allowances to the product by item, we recognize vendor allowances as a
reduction in merchandise costs based on inventory turns and as the product is
sold.   We recognized approximately $5.4 billion in 2009, $5.0
billion in 2008 and $5.1 billion in 2007 of vendor allowances as a reduction in
merchandise costs.  All years presented
now include amounts for certain vendor allowances related to directed store
deliveries.  We recognized approximately
94% of all vendor allowances in the item cost with the remainder being based on
inventory turns.


L

IQUIDITY AND

C

APITAL

R

ESOURCES

Cash Flow
Information

Net
cash provided by operating activities

We
generated $2.9 billion of cash from operations in 2009 and 2008 compared to
$2.6 billion in 2007.

The cash provided by operating activities
came from net earnings including noncontrolling interests adjusted primarily
for non-cash expenses of depreciation and amortization, goodwill impairment
charge, and changes in our operating assets and liabilities.

We realized an increase in
cash of $6 million in 2009 and decreases in cash of $412 million in 2008 and
$179 million in 2007 from changes in operating assets and liabilities.  The increase in the change in operating
assets and liabilities in 2009, compared to 2008, is primarily due to an
increase in the changes of income taxes receivable and payable, accounts
payable and inventories, offset partially by decreases in the changes of
deposits in-transit and prepaid expenses. 
The decrease in the change in operating assets and liabilities in 2008,
compared to 2007, is primarily due to a decrease in the change in income taxes
receivable and payable.  These amounts
are also net of cash contributions to our Company-sponsored defined benefit
pension plans totaling $265 million in 2009, $20 million in 2008 and $51
million in 2007.

The amount of cash paid for income taxes decreased in 2009,
compared to 2008 and 2007, because we applied our 2008 overpayment of income
taxes to current year taxes.  The 2008
overpayment resulted primarily from accounting method changes related to asset
capitalization.

Net
cash used by investing activities

Cash used by
investing activities was $2.3 billion in 2009, compared to $2.2 billion in 2008
and 2007.  The amount of cash used by
investing activities increased in 2009, compared to 2008, due primarily to
higher capital spending, partially offset by decreased payments for
acquisitions.  Our use of cash for
investing activities was consistent in 2008, compared to 2007.  Capital expenditures, including changes in
construction-in-progress payables and excluding acquisitions, were $2.3 billion
in 2009, $2.2 billion in 2008 and $2.1 billion in 2007.  Refer to the
Capital Expenditures section for an overview of our supermarket storing
activity during the last three years.

Net
cash used by financing activities

Financing
activities used $434 million of cash in 2009 compared to $769 million in 2008
and $310 million in 2007.  The decrease in the amount of cash used for
financing activities in 2009, compared to 2008,

was primarily related to the decrease in the amount of
treasury stock purchased and payments on long-term debt and our credit
facility, offset by decreased proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and
capital stock.

The increase in the amount of cash used in 2008,
compared to 2007, was primarily a result of payments on long term-debt and the
bank revolver, offset by decreased stock repurchases.  We repurchased $218 million of Kroger stock
in 2009 compared to $637 million in 2008 and $1.4 billion in 2007.  We paid dividends totaling $238 million in
2009, $227 million in 2008 and $202 million in 2007.

Debt Management

Total debt, including
both the current and long-term portions of capital leases and lease-financing
obligations, decreased $7 million to $8.1 billion as of year-end 2009, compared
to year-end 2008.  The decrease in 2009,
compared to 2008,

resulted from the issuance of $500 million of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 3.90%, offset by payment at maturity of our
$350 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 7.25%, decreased
outstanding commercial paper and payments on our money market lines.  Total debt decreased $59 million to $8.1
billion as of year-end 2008, compared to year-end 2007.  The decrease in
2008, compared to 2007, resulted from the issuance of $400 million of senior
notes bearing an interest rate of 5.00%, $375 million of senior notes bearing
an interest rate of 6.90% and $600 million of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 7.50%, offset by decreased commercial paper, the payments on the bank
revolver, the repayment of $200 million of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 6.375% and $750 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of
7.45% that came due in 2008.

Our
total debt balances were also affected by our prefunding of employee benefit
costs and by the mark-to-market adjustments necessary to record fair value
interest rate hedges on our fixed rate debt. 
We had prefunded employee benefit costs of $300 million in each of the
three years ended 2009, 2008 and 2007.  The mark-to-market adjustments
increased the carrying value of our debt by $57 million in 2009 and $45 million
in 2008.


Factors Affecting Liquidity

We
can currently borrow on a daily basis approximately $1 billion under our A2/P2/F2
rated commercial paper (“CP”) program.  At January 30, 2010, we did
not have any CP borrowings outstanding. 
CP borrowings are backed by our credit facility, and reduce the amount
we can borrow under the credit facility. 
If our credit rating declines below its current level of BBB/ Baa2/BBB,
the ability to borrow under our current CP program could be adversely affected
for a period of time immediately following the reduction of our credit rating
and lower the amount we are able to borrow on a daily basis under our CP
program.  This could require us to borrow additional funds under the
credit facility, under which we believe we have sufficient capacity. 
However, in the event of a ratings decline, we do not anticipate that our
borrowing capacity under our CP program would be any lower than $400 million on
a daily basis.  Although our ability to borrow under the credit facility
is not affected by our credit rating, the interest cost on borrowings under the
credit facility could be affected by a decrease in our credit rating or a
decrease in our Applicable Percentage Ratio.

Our
credit facility also requires the maintenance of a Leverage Ratio and a Fixed
Charge Coverage Ratio (our “financial covenants”).  A failure to maintain
our financial covenants would impair our ability to borrow under the credit
facility. These financial covenants and ratios are described below:

·

Our Applicable
Percentage Ratio (the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Total
Interest Expense, as defined in the credit facility) was 7.69 to 1 as of January 30,
2010.  Our current borrowing rates are determined from the better of  our Applicable Percentage Ratio or our credit
ratings as defined by the credit facility.

·

Our Leverage
Ratio (the ratio of Net Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the credit
facility) was 2.22 to 1 as of January 30, 2010.  If this ratio
exceeded 3.50 to 1, we would be in default of our credit facility and our
ability to borrow under the facility would be impaired.

·

Our Fixed Charge
Coverage Ratio (the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA plus Consolidated Rental
Expense to Consolidated Cash Interest Expense plus Consolidated Rental Expense,
as defined in the credit facility) was 3.82 to 1 as of January 30,
2010.  If this ratio fell below 1.70 to 1, we would be in default of our
credit facility and our ability to borrow under the facility would be impaired.

Consolidated
EBITDA, as defined in our credit facility, includes an adjustment for unusual
gains and losses including our non-cash asset impairment charge related to
goodwill in 2009.  Our credit agreement is more fully described in Note 5
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We were in compliance with our
financial covenants at year-end 2009.


The tables
below illustrate our significant contractual obligations and other commercial
commitments, based on year of maturity or settlement, as of January 30,
2010 (in millions of dollars):

Our construction
commitments include funds owed to third parties for projects currently under
construction.  These amounts are reflected in other current liabilities in
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Our
purchase obligations include commitments to be utilized in the normal course of
business, such as several contracts to purchase raw materials utilized in our
manufacturing plants and several contracts to purchase energy to be used in our
stores and manufacturing facilities.  Our obligations also include management
fees for facilities operated by third parties.  Any upfront vendor
allowances or incentives associated with outstanding purchase commitments are
recorded as either current or long-term liabilities in our Consolidated Balance
Sheets.

As of January 30, 2010, we maintained a $2.5 billion,
five-year revolving credit facility that, unless extended, terminates in
2011.  Outstanding borrowings under the
credit agreement and commercial paper borrowings, and some outstanding letters
of credit, reduce funds available under the credit agreement.  In addition to the credit agreement, we
maintained three uncommitted money market lines totaling $100 million in the
aggregate.  The money market lines allow
us to borrow from banks at mutually agreed upon rates, usually at rates below
the rates offered under the credit agreement. 
As of January 30, 2010, we had no borrowings under our credit
agreement, money market lines or outstanding commercial paper.  The outstanding letters of credit that reduce
funds available under our credit agreement totaled $313 million as of January 30,
2010.

In addition to the
available credit mentioned above, as of January 30, 2010, we had
authorized for issuance $900 million of securities under a shelf registration
statement filed with the SEC and effective on December 20, 2007.


We
also maintain surety bonds related primarily to our self-insured workers
compensation claims.  These bonds are required by most states in which we
are self-insured for workers’ compensation and are placed with third-party
insurance providers to insure payment of our obligations in the event we are
unable to meet our claim payment obligations up to our self-insured retention
levels.   These bonds do not represent liabilities of Kroger, as we
already have reserves on our books for the claims costs.  Market changes may make the surety bonds more
costly and, in some instances, availability of these bonds may become more
limited, which could affect our costs of, or access to, such bonds. 
Although we do not believe increased costs or decreased availability would
significantly affect our ability to access these surety bonds, if this does
become an issue, we would issue letters of credit, in states where allowed,
against our credit facility to meet the state bonding requirements.  This
could increase our cost and decrease the funds available under our credit
facility.

Most
of our outstanding public debt is jointly and severally, fully and
unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of our
subsidiaries.  See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
more detailed discussion of those arrangements.  In addition, we have
guaranteed half of the indebtedness of two real estate entities in which we have
a 50% ownership interest.  Our share of the responsibility for this
indebtedness, should the entities be unable to meet their obligations, totals
approximately $7 million.  Based on the covenants underlying this
indebtedness as of January 30, 2010, it is unlikely that we will be
responsible for repayment of these obligations. 
We have also agreed to guarantee, up to $25 million, the indebtedness of
an entity in which we have a 50% ownership interest.  Our share of the responsibility, as of January 30,
2010, should the entity be unable to meet its obligations, totals approximately
$25 million and is collateralized by approximately $9 million of inventory
located in our stores.  We consolidate
this entity because we are the primary beneficiary, and therefore the entire
$25 million is a liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

We
also are contingently liable for leases that have been assigned to various
third parties in connection with facility closings and dispositions.  We
could be required to satisfy obligations under the leases if any of the
assignees are unable to fulfill their lease obligations.  Due to the wide
distribution of our assignments among third parties, and various other remedies
available to us, we believe the likelihood that we will be required to assume a
material amount of these obligations is remote.  We have agreed to
indemnify certain third-party logistics operators for certain expenses,
including pension trust fund contribution obligations and withdrawal
liabilities.

In
addition to the above, we enter into various indemnification agreements and
take on indemnification obligations in the ordinary course of business. 
Such arrangements include indemnities against third party claims arising out of
agreements to provide services to Kroger; indemnities related to the sale of
our securities; indemnities of directors, officers and employees in connection
with the performance of their work; and indemnities of individuals serving as
fiduciaries on benefit plans.  While Kroger’s aggregate indemnification
obligation could result in a material liability, we are not aware of any
current matter that could result in a material liability.

R

ECENTLY

A

DOPTED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In December 2008,
the FASB amended its existing standards to provide additional guidance on
employers’ disclosures about the plan assets of defined benefit pension or
other postretirement plans.  The new
standards require disclosures about how investment allocation decisions are
made, the fair value of each major category of plan assets, valuation
techniques used to develop fair value measurements of plan assets, the effect
of measurements on changes in plan assets when using significant unobservable
inputs and significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets.  The new standards become effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2009. 
We adopted the amended standards effective January 30, 2010.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the new required disclosures.

Effective May 24,
2009, we adopted new standards for subsequent events.  The purpose of the new standards is to
establish general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that
occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued
or are available to be issued.  See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the new required disclosures.

Effective May 24,
2009, we adopted  new standards that
effect the accounting and disclosures related to certain financial instruments
including: (a) providing additional guidance for estimating fair value
when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have
significantly decreased; (b) identifying circumstances that indicate a
transaction is not orderly; (c) amending the other-than-temporary
impairment guidance for debt securities to make the guidance more operational
and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary
impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements; and (d) requiring
disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments on an interim basis
in addition to the annual disclosure requirements.  The new disclosures are included in Note 7 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The adoption of these new standards did not have a material effect on
our Consolidated Financial Statements.


Effective
February 1, 2009, we adopted the new standards that require enhanced
disclosures on an entity’s derivative and hedging activities.  The new disclosures are included in Note 6 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Effective
February 1, 2009, we adopted the new standards that clarify that
share-based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable
dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities and
included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method.  See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of its adoption.

Effective
February 1, 2009, we adopted new standards related to business
combinations.  The new standards expand
the definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.  All business combinations
completed after February 1, 2009, will be accounted for under the new
standards.

Effective
February 1, 2009, we adopted new standards that deferred the fair value
disclosures for most non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities to
fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008.  See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of the adoption of the new standards.

In December 2007,
the FASB amended its existing standards for a parent’s noncontrolling interest
in a subsidiary and the accounting for future ownership changes with respect to
the subsidiary.  The new standard defines
a noncontrolling interest, previously called a minority interest, as the
portion of equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable, directly or
indirectly, to a parent.  The new
standard requires, among other things, that a noncontrolling interest be
clearly identified, labeled and presented in the consolidated balance sheet as
equity, but separate from the parent’s equity; that the amount of consolidated
net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be
clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of
income; and that if a subsidiary is deconsolidated, the parent measure at fair
value any noncontrolling equity investment that the parent retains in the
former subsidiary and recognize a gain or loss in net income based on the fair
value of the non-controlling equity investment. 
We adopted the new standard effective February 1, 2009, and applied
it retrospectively.  As a result, we
reclassified noncontrolling interests in amounts of $95 from the mezzanine
section to equity in the January 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Certain reclassifications to the Consolidated
Statements of Operations have been made to prior period amounts to conform to
the presentation of the current period under the new standard.  Recorded amounts for prior periods previously
presented as Net Earnings, which are now presented as Net Earnings Attributable
to The Kroger Co., have not changed as a result of the adoption of the new
standard.

Effective
January 31, 2009, we adopted the amended standards related to disclosures
about interests in VIEs.  These amended
standards require additional disclosures about an entity’s involvement with
VIEs and transfers of financial assets.

The adoption of these new amended
standards did not change any disclosures in our Consolidated Financial
Statements

due to our VIEs being immaterial.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In June 2009, the
FASB amended its existing standards to change how a company determines when an
entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting
(or similar rights) should be consolidated. 
The new standards will become effective for our fiscal year beginning January 31,
2010.  While we are still finalizing the
evaluation of the impact of these amended standards on our Consolidated
Financial Statements, we believe these new standards will not have a material
effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

In January 2010, the
FASB issued guidance that amends and clarifies existing guidance related to
fair value measurements and disclosures. This guidance requires new disclosures
for (1) transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 and reasons for such
transfers; and (2) the separate presentation of purchases, sales,
issuances and settlement in the Level 3 reconciliation. It also clarifies
guidance around disaggregation and disclosures of inputs and valuation
techniques for Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance is
effective for our first quarter of 2010, except for the new disclosures in the
Level 3 reconciliation. The Level 3 disclosures are effective for our first
quarter of 2011.  We do not expect that
this guidance will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.


O

UTLOOK

This
discussion and analysis contains certain forward-looking statements about
Kroger’s future performance.  These
statements are based on management’s assumptions and beliefs in light of the information
currently available. Such statements relate to, among other things: projected
changes in net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co.; identical supermarket
sales growth; expected product cost; expected pension plan contributions; our
ability to generate operating cash flow; projected capital expenditures; square
footage growth; opportunities to reduce costs; cash flow requirements; and our
operating plan for the future; and are indicated by words such as “comfortable,”
“committed,” “will,” “expect,” “goal,” “should,” “intend,” “target,” “believe,”
“anticipate,” “plan,” and similar words or phrases. These forward-looking
statements are subject to uncertainties and other factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially.

Statements elsewhere in this report and below regarding our
expectations, projections, beliefs, intentions or strategies are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. While we believe that the statements are
accurate, uncertainties about the general economy, our labor relations, our
ability to execute our plans on a timely basis and other uncertainties
described below could cause actual results to differ materially.

·

We expect net earnings per diluted share
in the range of $1.60-$1.80 for 2010.

·

We expect identical supermarket sales
growth, excluding fuel sales, of 2.0%-3.0% in 2010.

·

For 2010, we will continue to focus on
driving sales growth and balancing investments in gross margin and improved
customer service to provide a better shopping experience for our customers. We
expect to finance these investments primarily with operating cost reductions.
We expect non-fuel operating margins to have a slight reduction to a slight
improvement in rate in 2010, from 2009, excluding the non-cash impairment
charges recorded.

·

For 2010, we expect fuel margins, which
can be highly volatile, to be approximately $0.11 per gallon, and we expect
continued strong growth in fuel gallons sold.

·

For 2010, we expect our annualized LIFO
charge to be approximately $50 million. This forecast is based on cost changes
for products in our inventory.

·

We plan to use cash flow primarily for
capital investments, to maintain our current debt coverage ratios, and to pay
cash dividends. As market conditions change, we plan to re-evaluate the above
uses of cash flow and our stock repurchase activity.

·

We expect to obtain sales growth from new
square footage, as well as from increased productivity from existing locations.

·

Capital expenditures reflect our strategy
of growth through expansion, as well as focusing on productivity increases from
our existing store base through remodels.  In addition, we will continue
our emphasis on self-development and ownership of real estate, logistics and
technology improvements.  The continued capital spending in technology is
focused on improving store operations, logistics, manufacturing procurement,
category management, merchandising and buying practices, and should reduce
merchandising costs.  We intend to continue using cash flow from
operations to finance capital expenditure requirements.  We expect capital
investments for 2010 to be in the range of $1.9-$2.1 billion, excluding
acquisitions and purchases of leased facilities.  We expect total food
store square footage to grow approximately1.0%-1.5% before acquisitions and
operational closings. We expect to reduce our internal capital plans by
approximately $1 billion in total over the next three fiscal years. Our
original internal capital plans projected year-over-year continued capital
expenditure growth. We now expect capital expenditures to average under $2
billion a year over the next three years.

·

Based on current operating trends, we
believe that cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity,
including borrowings under our commercial paper program and bank credit
facility, will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for working
capital, capital expenditures, interest payments and scheduled principal
payments for the foreseeable future. We also believe we have adequate coverage
of our debt covenants to continue to respond effectively to competitive
conditions.

·

We believe we have adequate sources of
cash, if needed, under our credit agreement.


·

We expect that our OG&A results will
be affected by increased costs, such as higher employee benefit costs and credit
card fees, offset by improved productivity from process changes and leverage
gained through sales increases.

·

We expect that our effective tax rate for
2010 will be approximately 37.0%.

·

We expect rent expense, as a percentage
of total sales and excluding closed-store activity, will decrease due to the
emphasis our current strategy places on ownership of real estate.

·

We believe that in 2010 there will be
opportunities to reduce our operating costs in such areas as administration,
productivity improvements, shrink, warehousing and transportation. These
savings will be invested in our core business to drive profitable sales growth
and offer improved value and shopping experiences for our customers.

·

Although we are not required to make cash
contributions to Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans during 2010,
we expect to contribute approximately $110 million to these plans in 2010. We
expect any elective contributions made during 2010 will decrease our required
contributions in future years.  Among other things, investment performance
of plan assets, the interest rates required to be used to calculate the pension
obligations, and future changes in legislation, will determine the amounts of
any additional contributions. We expect 2010 expense for Company-sponsored
defined benefit pension plans to be approximately $70 million. In addition, we
expect our cash contributions and expense to the 401(k) Retirement Savings
Account Plan from automatic and matching contributions to participants to increase
slightly in 2010, compared to 2009.

·

We expect to contribute approximately
$250 million to multi-employer pension plans in 2010, subject to collective
bargaining and

capital market conditions

. In addition, we expect meaningful increases in
expense as a result of increases in multi-employer pension plan contributions
over the next five years, but we believe it unlikely that contributions will
double during that period, which is a change from our estimate at year-end
2008.

·

We expect bad debt expense from the
credit extended to our customers through our Company-branded credit card in
2010 to be approximately $22 million.

·

We believe no additional goodwill
impairments will be reasonably possible in 2010.

·

We have various labor agreements that
will be negotiated in 2010, covering store employees in Albuquerque,
Cincinnati, Dallas, Detroit, Ft. Wayne, Houston, Little Rock, Portland, Seattle
and Toledo. We will also negotiate agreements with the Teamsters for employees
in California and Portland. Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining
agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur if we are
unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions. A prolonged work
stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations could have a material
adverse effect on our results. In all of these contracts, rising health care
and pension costs will continue to be an important issue in negotiations.

Various
uncertainties and other factors could cause us to fail to achieve our goals.
These include:

·

The extent to which our sources of liquidity
are sufficient to meet our requirements may be affected by the state of the
financial markets and the effect that such condition has on our ability to
issue commercial paper at acceptable rates. Our ability to borrow under our
committed lines of credit, including our bank credit facilities, could be
impaired if one or more of our lenders under those lines is unwilling or unable
to honor its contractual obligation to lend to us.

·

If market conditions change, it could
affect our cash flow.

·

Our ability to achieve sales and earnings
goals may be affected by: labor disputes; industry consolidation; pricing and
promotional activities of existing and new competitors, including non-traditional
competitors; our response to these actions; the state of the economy, including
interest rates and the inflationary and deflationary trends in certain
commodities; manufacturing commodity costs; diesel fuel costs related to our
logistics operations; trends in consumer spending; the extent to which our
customers exercise caution in their purchasing in response to economic
conditions; stock repurchases; and the success of our future growth plans.

·

The extent to which the adjustments we
are making to our strategy create value for our shareholders will depend
primarily on the reaction of our customers and our competitors to these
adjustments, as well as operating conditions, including persistent deflation,
increased competitive activity, and cautious spending behavior of our
customers.


·

Our product cost inflation could vary
from our estimate due to general economic conditions, weather, availability of
raw materials and ingredients in the products that we sell and their packaging,
and other factors beyond our control.

·

Our ability to use free cash flow to
continue to maintain our debt coverage and to reward our shareholders could be
affected by unanticipated increases in net total debt, our inability to
generate free cash flow at the levels anticipated, and our failure to generate
expected earnings.

·

The timing of our recognition of LIFO
expense will be affected primarily by changes in product costs during the year.

·

If actual results differ significantly
from anticipated future results for certain reporting units including variable
interest entities, an impairment loss for any excess of the carrying value of
the reporting units’ goodwill over the implied fair value would have to be
recognized.

·

In addition to the factors identified
above, our identical store sales growth could be affected by increases in
Kroger private label sales, the effect of our “sister stores” (new stores
opened in close proximity to an existing store) and reductions in retail
pricing.

·

Our operating margins, without fuel,
could decline more than expected if we are unable to pass on any cost
increases, fail to deliver the cost savings contemplated or if changes in the
cost of our inventory and the timing of those changes differ from our
expectations.

·

We could fail to realize our expected
operating margin per gallon of fuel and fuel gallons sold based upon changes in
the price of fuel or a change in our operating costs.

·

We have estimated our exposure to the
claims and litigation arising in the normal course of business, as well as to
the material litigation facing Kroger, and believe we have made provisions
where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is
probable. Unexpected outcomes in these matters, however, could result in an
adverse effect on our earnings.

·

Consolidation in the food industry is
likely to continue and the effects on our business, either favorable or
unfavorable, cannot be foreseen.

·

Rent expense, which includes subtenant
rental income, could be adversely affected by the state of the economy,
increased store closure activity and future consolidation.

·

Depreciation expense, which includes the
amortization of assets recorded under capital leases, is computed principally
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of individual
assets, or the remaining terms of leases. Use of the straight-line method of
depreciation creates a risk that future asset write-offs or potential
impairment charges related to store closings would be larger than if an
accelerated method of depreciation were followed.

·

Our effective tax rate may differ from
the expected rate due to changes in laws, the status of pending items with
various taxing authorities and the deductibility of certain expenses.

·

The actual
amount of automatic and matching cash contributions to our
401(k) Retirement Savings Account Plan will depend on the number of
participants, savings rate, plan compensation, and length of service of
participants.

·

Our
contributions and recorded expense related to multi-employer pension funds
could increase more than anticipated. Should asset values in these funds
deteriorate, if employers withdraw from these funds without providing for their
share of the liability, or should our estimates prove to be understated, our
contributions could increase more rapidly than we have anticipated.

·

If weakness in
the financial markets continues or worsens, our contributions to
Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans could increase more than
anticipated.

·

Changes in laws
or regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements
and environmental laws may have a material effect on our financial statements.


·

Changes in the
general business and economic conditions in our operating regions may affect
the shopping habits of our customers, which could affect sales and earnings.

·

Changes in the
general business and economic conditions in our operating regions, including
the rate of inflation, population growth, and employment and job growth in the
markets in which we operate, may affect our ability to hire and train qualified
employees to operate our stores. This would negatively affect earnings and
sales growth.

·

Changes in our
product mix may negatively affect certain financial indicators. For example, we
continue to add supermarket fuel centers to our store base. Since gasoline
generates low profit margins, we expect to see our FIFO gross profit margins
decline as gasoline sales increase. Although this negatively affects our FIFO
gross margin, gasoline sales provide a positive effect on OG&A expense as a
percentage of sales.

·

Our capital
expenditures, expected square footage growth, and number of store projects
completed over the next three fiscal years could differ from our estimate if we
are unsuccessful in acquiring suitable sites for new stores, if development
costs vary from those budgeted, if our logistics and technology projects are
not completed in the time frame expected or on budget or if current operating
conditions fail to improve or worsen.

·

Interest expense
could be adversely affected by the interest rate environment, changes in the
Company’s credit ratings, fluctuations in the amount of outstanding debt,
decisions to incur prepayment penalties on the early redemption of debt and any
factor that adversely affects our operations and results in an increase in debt.

·

Impairment
losses, including goodwill, could be affected by changes in our assumptions of
future cash flows, market values or business valuations in the market. Our cash
flow projections include several years of projected cash flows which would be
affected by changes in the economic environment, real estate market values,
competitive activity, inflation and customer behavior.

·

Our estimated
expense and obligation for Company-sponsored pension plans and other
post-retirement benefits could be affected by changes in the assumptions used
in calculating those amounts. These assumptions include, among others, the
discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, average
life expectancy and the rate of increases in compensation and health care
costs.

·

Adverse weather
conditions could increase the cost our suppliers charge for their products, or
may decrease the customer demand for certain products. Increases in demand for
certain commodities could also increase the cost our suppliers charge for their
products. Additionally, increases in the cost of inputs, such as utility costs
or raw material costs, could negatively affect financial ratios and earnings.

·

Although we presently operate only in the
United States, civil unrest in foreign countries in which our suppliers do
business may affect the prices we are charged for imported goods. If we are
unable to pass on these increases to our customers, our FIFO gross margin and
net earnings would suffer.

·

Earnings and sales also may be affected
by adverse weather conditions, particularly to the extent that hurricanes,
tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other conditions disrupt our operations or
those of our suppliers; create shortages in the availability or increases in
the cost of products that we sell in our stores or materials and ingredients we
use in our manufacturing facilities; or raise the cost of supplying energy to
our various operations, including the cost of transportation.

Other factors and
assumptions not identified above could also cause actual results to differ
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking information.
Accordingly, actual events and results may vary significantly from those
included in, contemplated or implied by forward-looking statements made by us
or our representatives.


ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

Financial Risk Management

We use
derivative financial instruments primarily to manage our exposure to
fluctuations in interest rates and, to a lesser extent, adverse fluctuations in
commodity prices and other market risks.  We do not enter into derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.  As a matter of policy, all of
our derivative positions are intended to reduce risk by hedging an underlying
economic exposure.  Because of the high correlation between the hedging
instrument and the underlying exposure, fluctuations in the value of the
instruments generally are offset by reciprocal changes in the value of the
underlying exposure.  The interest rate derivatives we use are straightforward
instruments with liquid markets.

We manage our exposure to
interest rates and changes in the fair value of our debt instruments primarily
through the strategic use of variable and fixed rate debt, and interest rate
swaps.  Our current program relative to interest rate protection
contemplates hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate
debt attributable to changes in interest rates.  To do this, we use the
following guidelines: (i) use average daily outstanding borrowings to determine
annual debt amounts subject to interest rate exposure, (ii) limit the
average annual amount of debt subject to interest rate reset and the amount of
floating rate debt to a combined total of $2.5 billion or less, (iii) include
no leveraged products, and (iv) hedge without regard to profit motive or
sensitivity to current mark-to-market status.

As of January 30, 2010,
we maintained 18 interest rate swap agreements, with notional amounts totaling
$1.6 billion, to manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of our fixed
rate debt resulting from interest rate movements by effectively converting a
portion of our debt from fixed to variable rates.  These agreements mature
at varying times between April 2012 and April 2013, and coincide with
our scheduled debt maturities.  The differential between fixed and
variable rates to be paid or received is accrued as interest rates change in
accordance with the agreements as an adjustment to interest expense. 
These interest rate swap agreements are being accounted for as fair value
hedges.  As of January 30, 2010, other long-term assets totaling $26
million were recorded to reflect the fair value of these agreements, offset by
increases in the fair value of the underlying debt.  We have unamortized proceeds from twelve
interest rate swaps once classified as fair value hedges totaling approximately
$31 million.  The unamortized proceeds
are recorded as adjustments to the carrying values of the underlying debt and
are being amortized over the remaining term of the debt.

In addition to the interest
rate swaps noted above, in 2005 we entered into three forward-starting interest
rate swap agreements with a notional amount totaling $750 million.  A
forward-starting interest rate swap is an agreement that effectively hedges
future benchmark interest rates on debt for an established period of
time.  We entered into the forward-starting interest rate swaps in order
to lock into fixed interest rates on forecasted issuances of debt in 2007 and
2008.  In 2007, we terminated two of
these forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $500
million.  In 2008, we terminated the
remaining forward interest rate swap with a notional amount of $250 million.  As of January 30, 2010, the unamortized
payments and proceeds of $11 million ($7 million net of tax) on these
terminated forward-starting interest rate swaps have been recorded net of tax
in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to earnings as the payments
of interest to which the hedge relates are made.

Annually, we review with the
Financial Policy Committee of our Board of Directors compliance with the
guidelines described above.  The guidelines may change as our business
needs dictate.

The tables below provide
information about our interest rate derivatives and underlying debt portfolio
as of January 30, 2010.  The amounts
shown for each year represent the contractual maturities of long-term debt,
excluding capital leases, and the average outstanding notional amounts of
interest rate derivatives as of January 30, 2010.  Interest rates
reflect the weighted average rate for the outstanding instruments.  The
variable component of each interest rate derivative and the variable rate debt
is based on U.S. dollar LIBOR using the forward yield curve as of January 30,
2010.  The Fair-Value column includes the fair-value of our debt
instruments and interest rate derivatives as of January 30, 2010. 
Refer to Notes 5, 6 and 7 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.


Commodity Price Protection

We
enter into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw materials
utilized in our manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in our stores,
warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. We enter into
commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the
conduct of normal business. Those commitments for which we expect to utilize or
take delivery in a reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business
qualify as normal purchases.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm

To the Shareowners and Board of Directors of

The Kroger Co.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and
changes in shareowners’ equity present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of The Kroger Co. and its subsidiaries at January 30,
2010 and January 31, 2009, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 30,
2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.  Also in our opinion,
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of January 30, 2010, based on criteria
established in

Internal Control - Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).  The Company’s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on
these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our integrated audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for uncertain
tax positions as of February 4, 2007.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Cincinnati, Ohio

March 30, 2010


THE
KROGER CO.

C

ONSOLIDATED

B

ALANCE

S

HEETS

The accompanying
notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Years
Ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years
Ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


THE KROGER CO.

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREOWNERS’ EQUITY

Years Ended January 30, 2010, January 31,
2009 and February 2, 2008

Comprehensive
income:

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

All dollar amounts are in millions except
share and per share amounts.

Certain
prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year
presentation.

1.

A

CCOUNTING

P

OLICIES

The
following is a summary of the significant accounting policies followed in
preparing these financial statements.

Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and
Principles of Consolidation

The Kroger Co. (the “Company”)
was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.  As of January 30,
2010, the Company was one of the largest retailers in the United States based
on annual sales.  The Company also manufactures and processes food for
sale by its supermarkets.  The accompanying financial statements include
the consolidated accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and the
Variable Interest Entities (“VIE”) in which the Company is the primary
beneficiary.  Significant intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated.

As of February 1, 2009,
the Company adopted the new standards for a parent’s noncontrolling interests
in a subsidiary and applied it

retrospectively. 
As a result, the Company reclassified noncontrolling interests in an
amount of $95 from the mezzanine section to equity on the January 31, 2009
Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners’
Equity.  In addition, the Company
reclassified noncontrolling interests from the mezzanine section to equity on
the February 3, 2007 and February 2, 2008 Consolidated Statements of
Changes in Shareowners’ Equity in the amount of $4 and $7, respectively.  All activity related to the noncontrolling
interests has also been reclassified and shown in the Consolidated Statements
of Changes in Shareowners’ Equity and net earnings (loss) attributable to
noncontrolling interests has been reclassified in the Consolidated Statements
of Operations for all prior periods. 
Certain reclassifications to the Consolidated Statements of Operations
have been made to prior period amounts to conform to the presentation of the
current period under the new standards. 
Recorded amounts for prior periods previously presented as Net Earnings,
which are now presented as Net Earnings Attributable to The Kroger Co., have
not changed as a result of the adoption of the new standards.

During 2008, the Company
started reflecting certain promotional allowances in its LIFO charge and
continued accounting for these promotional allowances in its evaluation of LIFO
in 2009.  During its 2009 LIFO analysis,
it was determined that these promotional allowances should be reflected in all
prior year LIFO indices.  By not
including these promotional allowances in all LIFO indices, the Company
overstated its LIFO reserve in its 2008 and 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheets
and its LIFO charge in its 2007 Consolidated Statement of Operations.  The Company believes these adjustments are
not material to any individual year or any quarterly period within such years
presented.  As a result, the Company has
revised its Consolidated Financial Statements for 2008 and 2007 to correct this
item.  The revised 2007 Consolidated
Financial Statements were adjusted by reducing the Company’s LIFO charge by $46
($29 after-tax).

Fiscal Year

The Company’s fiscal year
ends on the Saturday nearest January 31.  The last three fiscal years
consist of the 52-week periods ended January 30, 2010, January 31,
2009 and February 2, 2008.

Pervasiveness of Estimates

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”)
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities.  Disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the
reported amounts of consolidated revenues and expenses during the reporting
period also is required.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

Cash and temporary cash investments

Cash and temporary cash investments represent store
cash and Euros held to settle Euro-denominated contracts.  The Company valued its carrying amount of
Euros at the spot rates as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.


Inventories

Inventories are stated at the
lower of cost (principally on a last-in, first-out “LIFO” basis) or
market.  In total, approximately 97% and 98% of inventories for 2009 and
2008, respectively, were valued using the LIFO method.  Cost for the
balance of the inventories, including substantially all fuel inventories, was
determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method.  Replacement
cost was higher than the carrying amount by $803 at January 30, 2010 and
$754 at January 31, 2009.  The Company follows the Link-Chain,
Dollar-Value LIFO method for purposes of calculating its LIFO charge or credit.

The item-cost method of
accounting to determine inventory cost before the LIFO adjustment is followed
for substantially all store inventories at the Company’s supermarket
divisions.  This method involves counting each item in inventory,
assigning costs to each of these items based on the actual purchase costs (net
of vendor allowances and cash discounts) of each item and recording the cost of
items sold.  The item-cost method of accounting allows for more accurate
reporting of periodic inventory balances and enables management to more
precisely manage inventory when compared to the retail method of accounting.

The Company evaluates
inventory shortages throughout the year based on actual physical counts in its
facilities.  Allowances for inventory shortages are recorded based on the
results of these counts to provide for estimated shortages as of the financial
statement date.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property,
plant and equipment are recorded at cost.  Depreciation expense, which
includes the amortization of assets recorded under capital leases, is computed
principally using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
individual assets.  Buildings and land
improvements are depreciated based on lives varying from 10 to 40 years. 
All new purchases of store equipment are assigned lives varying from three to
nine years.  Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the shorter of the lease term to which they relate, which varies
from four to 25 years, or the useful life of the asset.  Manufacturing
plant and distribution center equipment is depreciated over lives varying from
three to 15 years.  Information
technology assets are generally depreciated over five years.  Depreciation
and amortization expense was $1,525 in 2009, $1,443 in 2008 and $1,355 in 2007.

Interest costs on significant
projects constructed for the Company’s own use are capitalized as part of the
costs of the newly constructed facilities.  Upon retirement or disposal of
assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
balance sheet and any gain or loss is reflected in net earnings.

Deferred Rent

The Company
recognizes rent holidays, including the time period during which the Company
has access to the property for construction of buildings or improvements and
escalating rent provisions on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease.  The deferred amount is included in Other Current Liabilities and
Other Long-Term Liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Goodwill

The Company reviews goodwill for impairment during the
fourth quarter of each year, and also upon the occurrence of trigger
events.  The reviews are performed at the operating division level. 
Generally, fair value is determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted
projected future cash flows, and is compared to the carrying value of a
division for purposes of identifying potential impairment.  Projected
future cash flows are based on management’s knowledge of the current operating
environment and expectations for the future.  If potential for impairment
is identified, the fair value of a division is measured against the fair value
of its underlying assets and liabilities, excluding goodwill, to estimate an
implied fair value of the division’s goodwill.  Goodwill impairment is
recognized for any excess of the carrying value of the division’s goodwill over
the implied fair value.  Results of the goodwill impairment reviews
performed during 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.


Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company monitors the carrying value of long-lived assets
for potential impairment each quarter based on whether certain trigger events
have occurred.  These events include current period losses combined with a
history of losses or a projection of continuing losses or a significant
decrease in the market value of an asset.  When a trigger event occurs, an
impairment calculation is performed, comparing projected undiscounted future
cash flows, utilizing current cash flow information and expected growth rates
related to specific stores, to the carrying value for those stores.  If the Company identifies impairment for
long-lived assets to be held and used, the Company compares the assets’ current
carrying value to the assets’ fair value. 
Fair value is based on current market values or discounted future cash
flows.  The Company records impairment
when the carrying value exceeds fair market value.  With respect to owned property and equipment
held for sale, the value of the property and equipment is adjusted to reflect
recoverable values based on previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and
current economic conditions.  Impairment is recognized for the excess of
the carrying value over the estimated fair market value, reduced by estimated
direct costs of disposal.  The Company
recorded asset impairments in the normal course of business totaling $48, $26
and $24 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 
Included in the 2009 amount are asset impairments recorded totaling $24
for a southern California reporting unit. 
Costs to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets for each of the
years presented have been included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations
as “Operating, general and administrative” expense.

Store Closing Costs

The Company provides for
closed store liabilities relating to the present value of the estimated
remaining noncancellable lease payments after the closing date, net of
estimated subtenant income.  The Company estimates the net lease
liabilities using a discount rate to calculate the present value of the
remaining net rent payments on closed stores.  The closed store lease
liabilities usually are paid over the lease terms associated with the closed
stores, which generally have remaining terms ranging from one to 20
years.  Adjustments to closed store liabilities primarily relate to
changes in subtenant income and actual exit costs differing from original
estimates.  Adjustments are made for changes in estimates in the period in
which the change becomes known.  Store closing liabilities are reviewed
quarterly to ensure that any accrued amount that is not a sufficient estimate
of future costs, or that no longer is needed for its originally intended
purpose, is adjusted to income in the proper period.

Owned stores held for
disposal are reduced to their estimated net realizable value.  Costs to
reduce the carrying values of property, equipment and leasehold improvements
are accounted for in accordance with the Company’s policy on impairment of
long-lived assets.  Inventory write-downs, if any, in connection with
store closings, are classified in “Merchandise costs.”  Costs to transfer
inventory and equipment from closed stores are expensed as incurred.

The following table
summarizes accrual activity for future lease obligations of stores that were
closed in the normal course of business:

Interest Rate Risk Management

The Company uses derivative
instruments primarily to manage its exposure to changes in interest
rates.  The Company’s current program relative to interest rate protection
and the methods by which the Company accounts for its derivative instruments
are described in Note 6.


Commodity Price Protection

The Company enters into purchase
commitments for various resources, including raw materials utilized in its
manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in its stores, manufacturing
facilities and administrative offices.  The Company enters into
commitments expecting to take delivery of and to utilize those resources in the
conduct of the normal course of business.  The Company’s current program
relative to commodity price protection and the methods by which the Company
accounts for its purchase commitments are described in Note 6.

Benefit Plans

Effective February 3,
2007, the Company adopted the new standards for recognition and disclosure
provisions (except for the measurement date change) for defined benefit pension
and other postretirement plans, which requires the recognition of the funded
status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or losses, prior service
costs or credits and transition obligations that have not yet been recognized
are required to be recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income (“AOCI”).  The

Company adopted the measurement date
provisions of these new standards effective February 3, 2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of the Company’s
fiscal year end.  In 2008, the non-cash
effect of the adoption of the measurement date provisions decreased shareowners’
equity by approximately $5 ($3 after-tax) and increased long-term liabilities
by approximately $5.  There was no effect
on the Company’s results of operations.

The determination of the
obligation and expense for Company-sponsored pension plans and other
post-retirement benefits is dependent on the selection of assumptions used by
actuaries and the Company in calculating those amounts.  Those assumptions
are described in Note 13 and include, among others, the discount rate, the
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the rates of increase in
compensation and health care costs.  Actual results that differ from the
assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore,
generally affect the recognized expense and recorded obligation in future
periods.  While the Company believes that the assumptions are appropriate,
significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in
assumptions may materially affect the pension and other post-retirement
obligations and future expense.

The Company also participates
in various multi-employer plans for substantially all union employees. 
Pension expense for these plans is recognized as contributions are funded.

The Company administers and
makes contributions to the employee 401(k) retirement savings
accounts.  Contributions to the employee
401(k) retirement savings accounts are expensed when contributed.  Refer to Note 13 for additional information
regarding the Company’s benefit plans.

Stock Based Compensation

The Company accounts for stock options under fair value recognition
provisions

.

Under this method, the Company recognizes compensation
expense for all share-based payments granted after January 29, 2006, as
well as all share-based payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29,
2006.  The Company recognizes share-based
compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the requisite
service period of the award.  In
addition, the Company records expense for restricted stock awards in an amount
equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the grant date of the
award, over the period the awards lapse.

Deferred Income Taxes

Deferred
income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences of differences
between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their financial reporting
basis.  Refer to Note 4 for the types of differences that give rise to
significant portions of deferred income tax assets and liabilities. 
Deferred income taxes are classified as a net current or noncurrent asset or
liability based on the classification of the related asset or liability for
financial reporting purposes.  A deferred tax asset or liability that is
not related to an asset or liability for financial reporting is classified
according to the expected reversal date.


Uncertain Tax Positions

Effective February 4,
2007, the Company adopted new standards for accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes.  These standards prescribe
a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return.  These standards also
provide guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties,
accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.

Various
taxing authorities periodically audit the Company’s income tax returns. 
These audits include questions regarding the Company’s tax filing positions,
including the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income to
various tax jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposures connected with
these various tax filing positions, including state and local taxes, the
Company records allowances for probable exposures.  A number of years may
elapse before a particular matter, for which an allowance has been established,
is audited and fully resolved.  As of January 30, 2010, the most
recent examination concluded by the Internal Revenue Service covered the years
2002 through 2004.

The assessment of the Company’s tax position relies on
the judgment of management to estimate the exposures associated with the
Company’s various filing positions.

Self-Insurance Costs

The Company
is primarily self-insured for costs related to workers’ compensation and
general liability claims.  Liabilities are actuarially determined and are
recognized based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not
reported.  The liabilities for workers’ compensation claims are accounted
for on a present value basis.  The Company has purchased stop-loss
coverage to limit its exposure to any significant exposure on a per claim
basis.  The Company is insured for covered costs in excess of these per
claim limits.

The following table
summarizes the changes in the Company’s self-insurance liability through January 30,
2010.

The current
portion of the self-insured liability is included in “Other current liabilities”,
and the long-term portion is included in “Other long-term liabilities” in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The Company
is also similarly self-insured for property-related losses.  The Company
has purchased stop-loss coverage to limit its exposure to losses in excess of
$25 on a per claim basis, except in the case of an earthquake, for which
stop-loss coverage is in excess of $50 per claim, up to $200 per claim in California
and $300 outside of California.

Revenue Recognition

Revenues
from the sale of products are recognized at the point of sale.  Discounts provided to customers by the
Company at the time of sale, including those provided in connection with
loyalty cards, are recognized as a reduction in sales as the products are
sold.  Discounts provided by vendors, usually in the form of paper
coupons, are not recognized as a reduction in sales provided the coupons are
redeemable at any retailer that accepts coupons.  The Company records a
receivable from the vendor for the difference in sales price and cash
received.  Pharmacy sales are recorded
when provided to the customer.  Sales taxes are not recorded as a
component of sales.  The Company does not recognize a sale when it sells
its own gift cards and gift certificates. 
Rather, it records a deferred liability equal to the amount
received.  A sale is then recognized when the gift card or gift
certificate is redeemed to purchase the Company’s products.  Gift card and certificate breakage is
recognized when redemption is deemed remote.


Merchandise Costs

The “Merchandise
costs” line item of the Consolidated Statements of Operations includes product
costs, net of discounts and allowances; advertising costs (see separate
discussion below); inbound freight charges; warehousing costs, including
receiving and inspection costs; transportation costs; and manufacturing
production and operational costs.  Warehousing, transportation and
manufacturing management salaries are also included in the “Merchandise costs”
line item; however, purchasing management salaries and administration costs are
included in the “Operating, general, and administrative” line item along with
most of the Company’s other managerial and administrative costs.  Rent
expense and depreciation expense are shown separately in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations.

Warehousing and
transportation costs include distribution center direct wages, repairs and
maintenance, utilities, inbound freight and, where applicable, third party
warehouse management fees, as well as transportation direct wages and repairs
and maintenance.  These costs are recognized in the periods the related
expenses are incurred.

The Company believes the
classification of costs included in merchandise costs could vary widely
throughout the industry.  The Company’s approach is to include in the “Merchandise
costs” line item the direct, net costs of acquiring products and making them
available to customers in its stores.  The Company believes this approach
most accurately presents the actual costs of products sold.

The Company recognizes all
vendor allowances as a reduction in merchandise costs when the related product
is sold.  When possible, vendor allowances are applied to the related
product cost by item and, therefore, reduce the carrying value of inventory by
item.  When the items are sold, the vendor allowance is recognized. 
When it is not possible, due to systems constraints, to allocate vendor
allowances to the product by item, vendor allowances are recognized as a
reduction in merchandise costs based on inventory turns and, therefore,
recognized as the product is sold.

Advertising Costs

The Company’s
advertising costs are recognized in the periods the related expenses are
incurred and are included in the “Merchandise costs” line item of the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The Company’s pre-tax advertising
costs totaled $529 in 2009, $532 in 2008 and $506 in 2007.  The Company does
not record vendor allowances for co-operative advertising as a reduction of
advertising expense.

Deposits In-Transit

Deposits
in-transit generally represent funds deposited to the Company’s bank accounts
at the end of the year related to sales, a majority of which were paid for with
credit cards and checks, to which the Company does not have immediate access.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

For purposes of the
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company considers all highly liquid
debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to
be temporary cash investments.  Book overdrafts, which are included in
accounts payable, represent disbursements that are funded as the item is
presented for payment.  Book overdrafts totaled $677, $663 and $661 as of January 30,
2010, January 31, 2009, and February 2, 2008, respectively, and are
reflected as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.

Segments

The Company
operates retail food and drug stores, multi-department stores, jewelry stores,
and convenience stores throughout the United States.  The Company’s retail
operations, which represent substantially all of the Company’s consolidated
sales, are its only reportable segment. All of the Company’s operations are
domestic.


2.

G

OODWILL

The following table
summarizes the changes in the Company’s net goodwill balance through January 30,
2010.

Testing for impairment must be performed annually, or
on an interim basis upon the occurrence of a triggering event or a change in
circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying amount.

The annual evaluation of goodwill performed during the fourth quarter of
2009, 2008 and 2007 did not result in impairment.

In the third quarter of 2009, the Company’s operating performance
suffered due to deflation and intense competition.  During the third quarter of 2009, based on
revised forecasts for 2009 and the initial results of the Company’s 2010 annual
budget process of the supermarket reporting units, management believed that
there were circumstances evident to warrant impairment testing of these
reporting units.  In the third quarter of
2009, the Company did not test the variable interest entities with recorded
goodwill for impairment as no triggering event occurred.

Based on the results of the Company’s step 1 analysis
in the third quarter of 2009, the Ralphs reporting unit in Southern California
was the only reporting unit for which there was a potential impairment.  The operating performance of the Ralphs
reporting unit was significantly affected by the current economic conditions
and responses to competitive actions in Southern California.  As a result of this decline in current and
future expected cash flows, along with comparable fair value information,
management concluded that the carrying value of goodwill for the Ralphs
reporting unit exceeded its implied fair value, resulting in a pre-tax
impairment charge of $1,113 ($1,036 after-tax). 
Subsequent to the impairment, no goodwill remains at the Ralphs
reporting unit.

Based on current and future expected cash flows, the
Company believes additional goodwill impairments are not reasonably
possible.  A 10% reduction in fair value
of the Company’s reporting units would not indicate a potential for impairment
of the Company’s remaining goodwill balance, except for one supermarket and one
variable interest entity reporting unit with recorded goodwill of $19 and $102,
respectively.

In
2008, the Company had additions to goodwill in the amount of $127.  The recorded goodwill was due to investments
made in The Little Clinic LLC and becoming the primary beneficiary of
i-wireless, LLC in 2008.


3.

P

ROPERTY,

P

LANT AND

E

QUIPMENT,

N

ET

Property, plant and equipment, net consists of:

Accumulated
depreciation for leased property under capital leases was $299 at January 30,
2010, and $283 at January 31, 2009.

Approximately
$382 and $396, original cost, of Property, Plant and Equipment collateralized
certain mortgages at January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009,
respectively.

4.

T

AXES

B

ASED ON

I

NCOME

The provision for taxes based on income consists of:

A reconciliation of the statutory federal rate and the
effective rate follows:


The tax effects of significant temporary differences that comprise
tax balances were as follows:

At
January 30, 2010, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for
state income tax purposes of $337 that expire from 2010 through 2029.  The
utilization of certain of the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards may be
limited in a given year.

At
January 30, 2010, the Company had State credits of $26, some of which
expire from 2010 through 2027.  The utilization of certain of the Company’s
credits may be limited in a given year.

Effective
February 4, 2007, the Company adopted new standards for accounting for uncertainty
in income taxes.  As of adoption, the
total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions,
including positions impacting only the timing of tax benefits, was $694.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending
amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:


The
Company does not anticipate that changes in the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits over the next twelve months will have a significant impact on its
results of operations or financial position.

As
of January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, the
amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the
effective tax rate was $132, $116 and $120 respectively.

To
the extent interest and penalties would be assessed by taxing authorities on
any underpayment of income tax, such amounts have been accrued and classified
as a component of income tax expense. 
During the years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2,
2008,  the Company recognized
approximately $4,  $6 and $(11)
respectively, in interest and penalties. 
The Company had accrued approximately $108 and $99 for the payment of
interest and penalties as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009,
respectively.

The
IRS concluded a field examination of the Company’s 2002 — 2004 U.S. tax returns
during the third quarter of 2007 and is currently auditing years 2005 —
2007.  The audit is expected to be
completed in the next twelve months. 
Additionally, the Company has a case in the U.S. Tax Court.  A decision on this case is expected within
the next 12 months.  In connection with
this case, the Company has extended the statute of limitations on our tax years
after 1991 and those years remain open to examination.  States have a limited time frame to review
and adjust federal audit changes reported. 
Assessments made and refunds allowed are generally limited to the
federal audit changes reported.

5.             D

EBT

O

BLIGATIONS

Long-term debt consists of:

In 2008, the Company issued $400 of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 5.0% due in 2013, $375 of senior notes bearing an
interest rate of 6.9% due in 2038 and $600 of senior notes bearing an interest
rate of 7.5% due in 2014.

In 2009, the Company issued $500 of senior notes
bearing an interest rate of 3.9% due in 2015, the proceeds of which will be
used to repay $500 of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 8.05% maturing
in the first quarter of 2010.  In 2009,
the Company repaid $350 of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 7.25%.

As of January 30, 2010, the Company had a $2,500
Five-Year Credit Agreement maturing in 2011, unless earlier terminated by the
Company.  Borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at the
option of the Company at a rate equal to either (i) the highest, from time
to time of (A) the base rate of JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., (B) ½%
over a moving average of secondary market morning offering rates for
three-month certificates of deposit adjusted for reserve requirements, and (C) ½%
over the federal funds rate or (ii) an adjusted Eurodollar rate based upon
the London Interbank Offered Rate (“Eurodollar Rate”) plus an applicable
margin.  In addition, the Company pays a facility fee in connection with
the credit agreement.  Both the applicable margin and the facility fee
vary based upon the Company’s achievement of a financial ratio or credit
rating.  At January 30, 2010, the applicable margin was 0.19%, and
the facility fee was 0.06%.  The credit facility contains covenants,
which, among other things, require the maintenance of certain financial ratios,
including fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios.  The Company may
prepay the credit agreement in whole or in part, at any time, without a
prepayment penalty.   In addition to the
credit agreement, the Company maintained three uncommitted money market lines
totaling $100 in the aggregate.  The
money market lines allow the Company to borrow from banks at mutually agreed
upon rates, usually at rates below the rates offered under the credit
agreement.  As of January 30, 2010,
the Company had no borrowings under its credit agreement, money market lines or
outstanding commercial paper.  The
outstanding letters of credit that reduce funds available under the Company’s
credit agreement totaled $313 as of January 30, 2010.


Most
of the Company’s outstanding public debt is subject to early redemption at
varying times and premiums, at the option of the Company.  In addition,
subject to certain conditions, some of the Company’s publicly issued debt will
be subject to redemption, in whole or in part, at the option of the holder upon
the occurrence of a redemption event, upon not less than five days’ notice
prior to the date of redemption, at a redemption price equal to the default
amount, plus a specified premium.  “Redemption Event” is defined in the
indentures as the occurrence of (i) any person or group, together with any
affiliate thereof, beneficially owning 50% or more of the voting power of the
Company, (ii) any one person or group, or affiliate thereof, succeeding in
having a majority of its nominees elected to the Company’s Board of Directors,
in each case, without the consent of a majority of the continuing directors of
the Company or (iii) both a change of control and a below investment grade
rating.

The
aggregate annual maturities and scheduled payments of long-term debt, as of
year-end 2009, and for the years subsequent to 2009 are:

6.

D

ERIVATIVE

F

INANCIAL

I

NSTRUMENTS

GAAP
defines derivatives, requires that derivatives be carried at fair value on the
balance sheet, and provides for hedge accounting when certain conditions are
met.  The Company’s derivative financial instruments are recognized on the
balance sheet at fair value.  Changes in the fair value of derivative
instruments designated as “cash flow” hedges, to the extent the hedges are
highly effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax
effects.  Ineffective portions of cash
flow hedges, if any, are recognized in current period earnings.  Other
comprehensive income or loss is reclassified into current period earnings when
the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments designated as “fair value” hedges, along with
corresponding changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities,
are recorded in current period earnings. 
Ineffective portions of fair value hedges, if any, are recognized in
current period earnings.

The
Company assesses, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis,
whether derivatives used as hedging instruments are highly effective in
offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flow of the hedged items.
 If it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as a hedge
or ceases to be highly effective, the Company discontinues hedge accounting
prospectively.

Interest Rate Risk Management

The
Company is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in interest rates.  The Company manages its exposure to interest
rate fluctuations through the use of interest rate swaps (fair value hedges)
and forward-starting interest rate swaps (cash flow hedges).  The Company’s current program relative to
interest rate protection contemplates hedging the exposure to changes in the
fair value of fixed-rate debt attributable to changes in interest rates. 
To do this, the Company uses the following guidelines: (i) use average
daily outstanding borrowings to determine annual debt amounts subject to
interest rate exposure, (ii) limit the average annual amount subject to
interest rate reset and the amount of floating rate debt to a combined total of
$2,500 or less, (iii) include no leverage products, and (iv) hedge
without regard to profit motive or sensitivity to current mark-to-market
status.

Annually,
the Company reviews with the Financial Policy Committee of the Board of
Directors compliance with these guidelines.  These guidelines may change
as the Company’s needs dictate.


Fair Value Interest Rate Swaps

The table below summarizes the outstanding interest rate swaps
designated as fair value hedges as of January 30, 2010, and January 31,
2009.

The gain or loss on these
derivative instruments as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged
items attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in current income as “Interest
expense.”  These gains and losses for

2009 were as
follows:

The
following table summarizes the location and fair value of derivative
instruments designated as fair value hedges on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet:

In
2008, the Company terminated nine fair value interest rate swaps with a total
notional amount of $900.  Three of these
terminated interest rate swaps were purchased and became ineffective fair value
hedges in 2008.  The proceeds received at
termination were credited to interest expense in the amount of $15.

As
of January 30, 2010, the Company has unamortized proceeds from twelve
interest rate swaps once classified as fair value hedges totaling approximately
$31.  The unamortized proceeds are
recorded as adjustments to the carrying values of the underlying debt and are
being amortized over the remaining term of the debt.  As of January 30, 2010, the Company
expects to reclassify an unrealized gain of $14 from this adjustment to the
carrying values of the underlying debt to earnings over the next twelve months.

Cash Flow Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swaps

As
of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, the Company did not
maintain any forward-starting interest rate swap derivatives.

The
Company has unamortized net payments from three forward-starting interest rate
swaps once classified as cash flow hedges totaling approximately $11 ($7 net of
tax).  The unamortized proceeds and
payments from these terminated forward-starting interest rate swaps have been
recorded net of tax in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to
earnings as the payments of interest to which the hedges relate are made.  As of January 30, 2010, the Company
expects to reclassify an unrealized net loss of $3 from AOCI to earnings over
the next twelve months.


The
following table summarizes the effect of the Company’s derivative instruments
designated as cash flow hedges for 2009:

Year-To-Date
  January 30, 2010

Derivatives in Cash Flow

Hedging Relationships

Amount
  of Gain/(Loss) in AOCI

on Derivative (Effective Portion)

Amount
  of Gain/(Loss)

Reclassified from AOCI into

Income (Effective Portion)

Location
  of

Gain/(Loss)

Reclassified into

Income (Effective

Portion)

Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swaps, net of tax

$

(7

)

$

(2

)

Interest expense

Commodity
Price Protection

The
Company enters into purchase commitments for various resources, including raw
materials utilized in its manufacturing facilities and energy to be used in its
stores, warehouses, manufacturing facilities and administrative offices. 
The Company enters into commitments expecting to take delivery of and to
utilize those resources in the conduct of normal business.  Those
commitments for which the Company expects to utilize or take delivery in a
reasonable amount of time in the normal course of business qualify as normal
purchases and normal sales.

7.

F

AIR

V

ALUE

M

EASUREMENTS

In September 2006,
the FASB issued new standards defining fair value, establishing a market-based
framework for measuring fair value and expanding disclosures about fair value
measurements.  The new standards did not
expand or require any new fair value measurements.  The standards are effective for financial
assets and financial liabilities for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2007.  In February 2008, the FASB
issued new standards deferring the effective date for most non-financial assets
and non-financial liabilities to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
2008.  The Company adopted the new
standards issued in September 2006 for financial assets and financial
liabilities effective February 3, 2008 and adopted the remaining
provisions of the new standards for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
liabilities on February 1, 2009.

GAAP establishes a fair
value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value.  The three levels of the fair value hierarchy
defined in the standards are as follows:

Level 1 — Quoted prices
are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

Level 2 — Pricing inputs
are other than quoted prices in active markets included in Level 1, which are
either directly or indirectly observable;

Level 3 — Unobservable
pricing inputs in which little or no market activity exists, therefore
requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions about the assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability.

For items carried at fair
value in the consolidated financial statements, the following tables summarize
the fair value of these instruments at January 30, 2010 and January 31,
2009:

January 30, 2010 Fair Value
Measurements Using


January 31, 2009 Fair Value
Measurements Using

Fair value measurements
of non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities are primarily used in the
impairment analysis of goodwill, other intangible assets, and long-lived assets
and in the valuation of store lease exit costs. 
The Company reviews goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment
annually, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and as circumstances
indicate the possibility of impairment. 
See Note 2 for further discussion related to the Company’s carrying
value of goodwill and its goodwill impairment charge in 2009.   Long-lived assets and store lease exit costs
were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using Level 3 inputs as
defined in the fair value hierarchy.  See
Note 1 for further discussion of the Company’s policies and recorded amounts
for impairments of long-lived assets and valuation of store lease exit
costs.  In 2009, long-lived assets with a
carrying amount of $92 were written down to their fair value of $44, resulting
in an impairment charge of $48.  In 2008,
long-lived assets with a carrying amount of $41 were written down to their fair
value of $15, resulting in an impairment charge of $26.

Fair Value of Other Financial
Instruments

Current and Long-term Debt

The fair value of the Company’s long-term debt, including
current maturities, was estimated based on the quoted market price for the same
or similar issues adjusted for illiquidity based on available market
evidence.  If quoted market prices were
not available, the fair value was based upon the net present value of the
future cash flow using the forward interest rate yield curve in effect at
respective year-ends.  At January 30,
2010, the fair value of total debt was $8,283 compared to a carrying value of
$7,576.  At January 31, 2009, the
fair value of total debt was $7,920 compared to a carrying value of $7,597.

Cash and Temporary Cash Investments, Store Deposits
In-Transit, Receivables, Prepaid and Other Current Assets, Accounts Payable,
Accrued Salaries and Wages and Other Current Liabilities

The
carrying amounts of these items approximated fair value.

Long-term Investments

The fair values of these investments were estimated based on
quoted market prices for those or similar investments, or estimated cash flows,
if appropriate.  At January 30, 2010
and January 31, 2009, the carrying and fair value of long-term investments
for which fair value is determinable was $68 and $67, respectively.


8.

L

EASES
AND

L

EASE-FINANCED

T

RANSACTIONS

While the Company’s current strategy emphasizes ownership of
store real estate, the Company operates primarily in leased facilities. Lease
terms generally range from 10 to 20 years with options to renew for varying
terms. Terms of certain leases include escalation clauses, percentage rent
based on sales or payment of executory costs such as property taxes, utilities
or insurance and maintenance. Rent expense for leases with escalation clauses
or other lease concessions are accounted for on a straight-line basis beginning
with the earlier of the lease commencement date or the date the Company takes
possession.  Portions of certain properties are subleased to others for
periods generally ranging from one to 20 years.

Rent expense (under operating leases) consists of:

Minimum annual rentals and payments under capital leases and
lease-financed transactions for the five years subsequent to 2009 and in the
aggregate are:

Total
future minimum rentals under noncancellable subleases at January 30, 2010,
were $280.


9.

E

ARNINGS

P

ER

C

OMMON

S

HARE

Net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. per basic
common share equals net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. less income
allocated to participating securities divided by the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding.  Net earnings
attributable to The Kroger Co. per diluted common share equals net earnings
attributable to The Kroger Co. less income allocated to participating
securities divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding,
after giving effect to dilutive stock options. 
The following table provides a reconciliation of net earnings
attributable to The Kroger Co. and shares used in calculating net earnings
attributable to The Kroger Co. per basic common share to those used in
calculating net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. per diluted common
share:

The Company had
undistributed and distributed earnings to participating securities totaling $1,
$7 and $5 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

For the years ended January 30,
2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, there were options
outstanding for approximately 20.2 million, 11.8 million and 2.0 million shares
of common stock, respectively, that were excluded from the computation of net
earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. per diluted common share.  These
shares were excluded because their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive
effect on EPS.

The share amounts above for 2008 and 2007 differ from those
previously reported due to adopting the new standards that clarify that
share-based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable
dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities and
included in the calculation of basic EPS. 
The Company adopted the new standards effective February 1, 2009.

10.

S

TOCK

O

PTION

P

LANS

The Company grants options for common stock (“stock
options”) to employees, as well as to its non-employee directors, under various
plans at an option price equal to the fair market value of the stock at the
date of grant.  The Company accounts for
stock options under the fair value recognition provisions

.

Under
this method, the Company recognizes compensation expense for all share-based
payments granted after January 29, 2006, as well as all share-based
payments granted prior to, but not yet vested as of, January 29,
2006.  The Company recognizes share-based
compensation expense, net of an estimated forfeiture rate, over the requisite
service period of the award.  Equity
awards may be made at one of four meetings of its Board of Directors occurring
shortly after the Company’s release of quarterly earnings.  The 2009 primary grant was made in
conjunction with the June meeting of the Company’s Board of Directors.

Stock options typically expire 10 years from the date of
grant.  Stock options vest between one
and five years from the date of grant, or for certain stock options, the
earlier of the Company’s stock reaching certain pre-determined and appreciated
market prices or nine years and six months from the date of grant.  At January 30, 2010, approximately 18
million shares of common stock were available for future option grants under
these plans.


In
addition to the stock options described above, the Company awards restricted
stock to employees under various plans. 
The restrictions on these awards generally lapse between one and five
years from the date of the awards.

The Company records expense for
restricted stock awards in an amount equal to the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the grant date of the award, over the period the awards
lapse.

As of January 30, 2010,
approximately seven million shares of common stock were available for future
restricted stock awards under the 2005 and 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plans (the “Plans”).  The Company has the ability to convert shares
available for stock options under the Plans to shares available for restricted
stock awards.  Four shares available for
common stock option awards can be converted into one share available for
restricted stock awards.

All
awards become immediately exercisable upon certain changes of control of the
Company.

Stock Options

Changes
in options outstanding under the stock option plans are summarized below:

A summary of options outstanding and exercisable at January 30,
2010 follows:

The weighted-average
remaining contractual life for options exercisable at January 30, 2010,
was approximately 4.0 years.  The
intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable at January 30, 2010
was $73 and $68, respectively.


Restricted
stock

The weighted-average fair
value of stock options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $6.29, $8.65 and
$9.66, respectively.  The fair value of
each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the assumptions shown in the table
below.  The Black-Scholes model utilizes
extensive judgment and financial estimates, including the term employees are
expected to retain their stock options before exercising them, the volatility
of the Company’s stock price over that expected term, the dividend yield over
the term and the number of awards expected to be forfeited before they
vest.  Using alternative assumptions in
the calculation of fair value would produce fair values for stock option grants
that could be different than those used to record stock-based compensation
expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The decrease in the fair value of the stock
options granted during 2009, compared to 2008 and 2007, resulted primarily from
a decrease in the Company’s stock price.

The following table
reflects the weighted-average assumptions used for grants awarded to option
holders:

The weighted-average
risk-free interest rate was based on the yield of a treasury note as of the
grant date, continuously compounded, which matures at a date that approximates
the expected term of options.  The
dividend yield was based on our history and expectation of dividend
payouts.  Expected volatility was
determined based upon historical stock volatilities; however, implied
volatility was also considered.  Expected
term was determined based upon a combination of historical exercise and
cancellation experience as well as estimates of expected future exercise and
cancellation experience.

Total stock compensation recognized
in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $83, $91 and $87, respectively.  Stock option compensation recognized in 2009,
2008 and 2007 was $29, $35 and $51, respectively.  Restricted shares compensation recognized in
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $54, $56 and $36 respectively.

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised was $6, $18 and $33 in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively.  The total amount
of cash received in 2009 by the Company from the exercise of options granted
under share-based payment arrangements was $51. 
As of January 30, 2010, there was $112 of total unrecognized
compensation expense remaining related to non-vested share-based compensation
arrangements granted under the Company’s equity award plans.  This cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted-average period of approximately three years.  The total fair value of options that vested
was $39, $53 and $53 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.


Shares
issued as a result of stock option exercises may be newly issued shares or
reissued treasury shares.  Proceeds
received from the exercise of options, and the related tax benefit, may be
utilized to repurchase shares of the Company’s stock under a stock repurchase
program adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors.  During 2009, the Company repurchased
approximately three  million shares of
stock in such a manner.

For
share-based awards granted prior to the adoption of the fair value recognition
provisions, the Company’s stock option grants generally contained
retirement-eligibility provisions that caused the options to vest upon the
earlier of the stated vesting date or retirement.  Compensation expense was calculated over the
stated vesting periods, regardless of whether certain employees became
retirement-eligible during the respective vesting periods.  Under the fair value recognition provisions,
the Company continued this method of recognizing compensation expense for
awards granted prior to the adoption of the fair value recognition provisions.  For awards granted on or after January 29,
2006, options vest based on the stated vesting date, even if an employee
retires prior to the vesting date.  The
requisite service period ends, however, on the employee’s retirement-eligible
date.  As a result, the Company
recognizes expense for stock option grants containing such
retirement-eligibility provisions over the shorter of the vesting period or the
period until employees become retirement-eligible (the requisite service
period).

11.

C

OMMITMENTS
AND

C

ONTINGENCIES

The
Company continuously evaluates contingencies based upon the best available
evidence.

The Company believes that allowances for loss have been
provided to the extent necessary and that its assessment of contingencies is
reasonable.  To the extent that resolution of contingencies results in
amounts that vary from the Company’s estimates, future earnings will be charged
or credited.

The
principal contingencies are described below:

Insurance

— The Company’s workers’
compensation risks are self-insured in certain states. In addition, other
workers’ compensation risks and certain levels of insured general liability
risks are based on retrospective premium plans, deductible plans, and
self-insured retention plans.  The liability for workers’ compensation
risks is accounted for on a present value basis.  Actual claim settlements
and expenses incident thereto may differ from the provisions for loss. 
Property risks have been underwritten by a subsidiary and are reinsured with
unrelated insurance companies.  Operating divisions and subsidiaries have
paid premiums, and the insurance subsidiary has provided loss allowances, based
upon actuarially determined estimates.

Litigation —

On October 6, 2006, the
Company petitioned the Tax Court (

In Re:
Ralphs Grocery Company and Subsidiaries, formerly known as Ralphs Supermarkets, Inc.,
Docket No. 20364-06

) for a redetermination of deficiencies set
by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. 
The dispute at issue involves a 1992 transaction in which Ralphs Holding
Company acquired the stock of Ralphs Grocery Company and made an election under
Section 338(h)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code.  The Commissioner has determined that the
acquisition of the stock was not a purchase as defined by Section 338(h)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code and that the acquisition does not qualify as a
purchase.  The Company believes that it
has strong arguments in favor of its position and believes it is more likely
than not that its position will be sustained. 
However, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in the litigation
process, there can be no assurances that the Tax Court will rule in favor
of the Company.  A decision on this case
is expected within the next 12 months. 
As of January 30, 2010, an adverse decision would require a cash
payment up to approximately $488, including interest.  Any accounting implications of an adverse
decision in this case would be charged through the statement of operations.

On
February 2, 2004, the Attorney General for the State of California filed
an action in Los Angeles federal court (

California,
ex rel Lockyer v. Safeway, Inc. dba Vons, a Safeway Company; Albertson’s, Inc.
and Ralphs Grocery Company, a division of The Kroger Co.

, United
States District Court Central District of California, Case No. CV04-0687)
alleging that the Mutual Strike Assistance Agreement (the “Agreement”) between
the Company, Albertson’s, Inc. and Safeway Inc. (collectively, the “Retailers”),
which was designed to prevent the union from placing disproportionate pressure
on one or more of the Retailers by picketing such Retailer(s) but not the
other Retailer(s) during the labor dispute in southern California,
violated Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The lawsuit seeks declarative and
injunctive relief. On May 28, 2008, pursuant to a stipulation between the
parties, the court entered a final judgment in favor of the defendants.  As a result of the stipulation and final
judgment, there are no further claims to be litigated at the trial court
level.  The Attorney General has appealed
a trial court ruling to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and the defendants
are appealing a separate ruling. 
Although this lawsuit is subject to uncertainties inherent in the
litigation process, based on the information presently available to the Company,
management does not expect that the ultimate resolution of this action will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.


Various claims and lawsuits arising in the normal course of
business, including suits charging violations of certain antitrust, wage and
hour, or civil rights laws, are pending against the Company. Some of these
suits purport or have been determined to be class actions and/or seek
substantial damages. Any damages that may be awarded in antitrust cases will be
automatically trebled. Although it is not possible at this time to evaluate the
merits of all of these claims and lawsuits, nor their likelihood of success,
the Company is of the belief that any resulting liability will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.

The Company continually
evaluates its exposure to loss contingencies arising from pending or threatened
litigation and believes it has made provisions where it is reasonably possible
to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable.  Nonetheless, assessing and predicting the
outcomes of these matters involve substantial uncertainties. It remains
possible that despite management’s current belief, material differences in
actual outcomes or changes in management’s evaluation or predictions could
arise that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial
condition

, results of operations, or cash flows.

Guarantees —

The Company has guaranteed
half of the indebtedness of two real estate entities in which Kroger has a 50%
ownership interest.  The Company’s share of the responsibility for this
indebtedness, should the entities be unable to meet their obligations, totals
approximately $7.  Based on the covenants underlying this indebtedness as
of January 30, 2010, it is unlikely that the Company will be responsible
for repayment of these obligations.  The
Company also agreed to guarantee, up to $25, the indebtedness of an entity in
which Kroger has a 50% ownership interest. 
The Company’s share of the responsibility, as of January 30, 2010,
should the entity be unable to meet its obligations, totals approximately $25
and is collateralized by approximately $9 of inventory located in the Company’s
stores.  The Company consolidates the
entity because it is the primary beneficiary, and therefore the entire $25 is a
liability on the consolidated balance sheet.

Assignments —

The Company is contingently
liable for leases that have been assigned to various third parties in
connection with facility closings and dispositions.  The Company could be
required to satisfy the obligations under the leases if any of the assignees is
unable to fulfill its lease obligations.  Due to the wide distribution of
the Company’s assignments among third parties, and various other remedies
available, the Company believes the likelihood that it will be required to
assume a material amount of these obligations is remote.

12.

S

TOCK

Preferred Stock

The
Company has authorized five million shares of voting cumulative preferred
stock; two million were available for issuance at January 30, 2010.  The stock has a par value of $100 per share
and is issuable in series.

Common Stock

The Company has authorized one billion shares of common
stock, $1 par value per share.  On May 20, 1999, the shareholders
authorized an amendment to the Amended Articles of Incorporation to increase
the authorized shares of common stock from one billion to two billion when the
Board of Directors determines it to be in the best interest of the Company.

Common Stock
Repurchase Program

The
Company maintains stock repurchase programs that comply with Securities
Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 to allow for the orderly repurchase of The Kroger
Co. stock, from time to time.  The Company made open market purchases
totaling $156, $448 and $1,151 under these repurchase programs in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively.  In addition to these repurchase programs, in December 1999,
the Company began a program to repurchase common stock to reduce dilution
resulting from its employee stock option plans.  This program is solely
funded by proceeds from stock option exercises, and the related tax
benefit.  The Company repurchased approximately $62, $189 and $270 under
the stock option program during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.


13.

B

ENEFIT

P

LANS

Company-Sponsored
Plans

The Company administers
non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans for substantially all
non-union employees and some union-represented employees as determined by the
terms and conditions of collective bargaining agreements.  These include
several qualified pension plans (the “Qualified Plans”) and a non-qualified
plan (the “Non-Qualified Plan”).  The Non-Qualified Plan pays benefits to
any employee that earns in excess of the maximum allowed for the Qualified
Plans by Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.  The Company only
funds obligations under the Qualified Plans.  Funding for the pension
plans is based on a review of the specific requirements and on evaluation of
the assets and liabilities of each plan.

In
addition to providing pension benefits, the Company provides certain health
care benefits for retired employees.  The majority of the Company’s
employees may become eligible for these benefits if they reach normal
retirement age while employed by the Company.  Funding of retiree health
care benefits occurs as claims or premiums are paid.

Effective
February 3, 2007, the Company adopted the new standards for recognition
and disclosure provisions (except for the measurement date change) for defined benefit
pension and other postretirement plans, which requires the recognition of the
funded status of its retirement plans on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Actuarial gains or losses, prior service
costs or credits and transition obligations that have not yet been recognized
are required to be recorded as a component of AOCI.  The

Company adopted the measurement date provisions of
these new standards effective February 3, 2008.  The majority of our pension and
postretirement plans previously used a December 31 measurement date.  All plans are now measured as of the Company’s
fiscal year end.  In 2008, the non-cash
effect of the adoption of the measurement date provisions decreased shareowners’
equity by approximately $5 ($3 after-tax) and increased long-term liabilities
by approximately $5.  There was no effect
on the Company’s results of operations.

Amounts
recognized in AOCI as of January 30, 2010 consist of the following
(pre-tax):

Amounts
in AOCI expected to be recognized as components of net periodic pension or
postretirement benefit costs in 2010 are as follows (pre-tax):

Other
changes recognized in other comprehensive income in 2009 are as follows
(pre-tax):


Information with respect to change in benefit obligation,
change in plan assets, the funded status of the plans recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets, net amounts recognized at end of fiscal years,
weighted average assumptions and components of net periodic benefit cost
follow:

Other current liabilities
as of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 include $27 and $17 of
net liability recognized, respectively.

As
of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, pension plan assets
included no shares of The Kroger Co. common stock.

The
Company’s discount rate assumptions were intended to reflect the rates at which
the pension benefits could be effectively settled.  They take into account
the timing and amount of benefits that would be available under the plans. The
Company’s methodology for selecting the discount rates as of year-end 2009 was
to match the plan’s cash flows to that of a yield curve that provides the equivalent
yields on zero-coupon corporate bonds for each maturity.  Benefit cash
flows due in a particular year can theoretically be “settled” by “investing”
them in the zero-coupon bond that matures in the same year.  The discount
rates are the single rates that produce the same present value of cash
flows.  The selection of the 6.00% and 5.80% discount rates as of year-end
2009 for pension and other benefits, respectively, represents the equivalent
single rates constructed under a broad-market AA yield curve constructed by an
outside consultant.  The Company utilized
a discount rate of 7.00% for year-end 2008 for both pension and other
benefits.  A 100 basis point increase in the discount rate would decrease
the projected pension benefit obligation as of January 30, 2010, by
approximately $316.


To
determine the expected return on pension plan assets, the Company considers
current and anticipated plan asset allocations as well as historical and
forecasted returns on various asset categories.  For 2009, 2008 and 2007,
the Company assumed a pension plan investment return rate of 8.5%.  The
Company pension plan’s average return was 5.9% for the 10 calendar years ended December 31,
2009, net of all investment management fees and expenses.  The value of
all investments in its Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans during
the calendar year ending December 31, 2009, net of investment management
fees and expenses, increased 23.8%, primarily due to the strength of the market
in 2009.  The Company believes its 8.5%
pension return assumption is appropriate. 
For the past 20 years, the Company average annual return has been 10.0%,
and the average annual rate of return for the S&P 500 has been 9.3%.  In addition, forward looking assumptions for
investments made in a manner consistent with the Company’s target allocations
indicate an 8.5% return assumption is reasonable.

The
fair value of plan assets increased in 2009 compared to 2008 due to the
strength of the global financial markets in 2009.  This increase caused the Company’s
underfunded status to decrease at January 30, 2010.

The
Company uses the RP-2000 projected 2015 mortality table in calculating the
pension obligation.

The
following table provides the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”), accumulated
benefit obligation (“ABO”) and the fair value of plan assets for all Company-sponsored
pension plans.

The following table provides information about the Company’s
estimated future benefit payments.


The
following table provides information about the target and actual pension plan
asset allocations.

Investment objectives, policies and strategies are set by the
Pension Investment Committee (the “Committee”) appointed by the CEO.  The
primary objectives include holding, protecting and investing the assets and
distributing benefits to participants and beneficiaries of the pension
plans.  Investment objectives have been established based on a
comprehensive review of the capital markets and each underlying plan’s current
and projected financial requirements.  The time horizon of the investment
objectives is long-term in nature and plan assets are managed on a
going-concern basis.

Investment objectives and guidelines specifically applicable
to each manager of assets are established and reviewed annually. 
Derivative instruments may be used for specified purposes, including
rebalancing exposures to certain asset classes.  Any use of derivative
instruments for a purpose or in a manner not specifically authorized is
prohibited, unless approved in advance by the Committee.

The
current target allocations shown represent 2009 targets that were established
in 2008 and revised slightly in 2009. 
The Company will rebalance by liquidating assets whose allocation
materially exceeds target, if possible, and investing in assets whose
allocation is below target.  If markets
are illiquid, the Company may not be able to rebalance to target quickly.  To maintain actual asset allocations consistent
with target allocations, assets are reallocated or rebalanced
periodically.  In addition, cash flow from employer contributions and
participant benefit payments can be used to fund underweight asset classes and
divest overweight asset classes, as appropriate.  The Company expects that
cash flow will be sufficient to meet most rebalancing needs.

Although the Company is not required to
make cash contributions to its Company-sponsored defined benefit pension plans
during 2010, the Company expects to contribute approximately $110 million to
these plans in 2010.  Additional
contributions may be made if required under the Pension Protection Act to avoid
any benefit restrictions.

The Company expects any voluntary
contributions made during 2010 will reduce its minimum required contributions
in future years.

Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported
for the health care plans.  The Company used a 7.60% initial health care
cost trend rate and a 4.50% ultimate health care cost trend rate to determine
its expense.  A one-percentage-point change in the assumed health care
cost trend rates would have the following effects:

1% Point

Increase

1% Point

Decrease

Effect on total of service and interest cost
  components

$


$

(3

)

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation

$


$

(33

)


The following table sets
forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, the Plan’s assets at fair
value as of January 30, 2010:

Assets
at Fair Value as of January 30, 2010

For measurements using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during 2009, a reconciliation of the
beginning and ending balances is as follows:

See Note 7 for a
discussion of the levels of the fair value hierarchy.  The assets’ fair value measurement level
above is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair
value measurement.

The following is a
description of the valuation methods used for the plan’s assets measured at
fair value in the above two tables:

·

Cash:

The carrying value approximates fair
value.

·

Corporate Stocks:

The fair values of these securities are
based on observable market quotations for identical assets and are valued at
the closing price reported on the active market on which the individual
securities are traded.

·

Corporate Bonds:

The fair values of these securities are
primarily based on observable market quotations for identical or similar bonds,
valued at the closing price reported on the active market on which the
individual securities are traded.  When
such quoted prices are not available, the bonds are valued using a discounted
cash flows approach using current yields on similar instruments of issuers with
similar credit ratings, including adjustments for certain risks that may not be
observable, such as credit and liquidity risks.

·

U.S. Government Obligations:

Certain U.S. Government Obligations are valued at the closing
price reported in the active market in which the security is traded. Other U.S.
government securities are valued based on yields currently available on
comparable securities of issuers with similar credit ratings. When quoted
prices are not available for identical or similar securities, the security is
valued under a discounted cash flows approach that maximizes observable inputs,
such as current yields of similar instruments, but includes adjustments for
certain risks that may not be observable, such as credit and liquidity risks.


·

Mutual Funds/Collective
Trusts: The collective trust funds are public investment vehicles valued using
a Net Asset Value (NAV) provided by the manager of each fund.  The NAV is based on the underlying net assets
owned by the fund, divided by the number of shares outstanding.  The NAV’s unit price is quoted on a private
market that is not active.  However, t

he NAV is based on the fair value of the
underlying securities within the fund, which are traded on an active market,
and valued at the closing price reported on the active market on which those
individual securities are traded.

·

Partnerships/Joint
Ventures: These funds consist primarily of U.S. government securities,
Corporate Bonds, and corporate stocks, which are valued in a manner consistent
with these types of investments, noted above.

·

Hedge Funds: Hedge funds
are private investment vehicles valued using a Net Asset Value (NAV) provided
by the manager of each fund.  The NAV is
based on the underlying net assets owned by the fund, divided by the number of
shares outstanding.  The NAV’s unit price
is quoted on a private market that is not active.  T

he NAV is based on the fair value of the underlying
securities within the funds, which are typically traded on an active market,
and valued at the closing price reported on the active market on which those
individual securities are traded.  For
investments not traded on an active market, or for which a quoted price is not
publicly available, a variety of unobservable valuation methodologies,
including discounted cash flow, market multiple and cost valuation approaches,
are employed by the fund manager to value investments.  Fair values of all investments are adjusted,
if necessary, based on audits of the Hedge Fund financial statements; such
adjustments are reflected in the fair value of the plan’s assets.

·

Private Equity:

Private
Equity investments are valued based on the fair value of the underlying
securities within the fund, which include investments both traded on an active
market and not traded on an active market. For those investments that are traded
on an active market, the values are based on the closing price reported on the
active market on which those individual securities are traded.  For investments not traded on an active
market, or for which a quoted price is not publicly available, a variety of
unobservable valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flow, market
multiple and cost valuation approaches, are employed by the fund manager to
value investments.  Fair values of all
investments are adjusted annually, if necessary, based on audits of the private
equity fund financial statements; such adjustments are reflected in the fair
value of the plan’s assets.

·

Real Estate:

Real estate investments include
investments in real estate funds managed by a fund manager.  These investments are valued using a variety
of unobservable valuation methodologies, including discounted cash flow, market
multiple and cost valuation approaches.

The methods described
above may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net
realizable value or reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while the
Plan believes its valuations methods are appropriate and consistent with other
market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to
determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a
different fair value measurement.

The
Company contributed and expensed $115, $92 and $90 to employee 401(k) retirement
savings accounts in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  The

401(k) retirement savings account plan provides
to eligible employees both matching contributions and automatic contributions
from the Company based on participant contributions, plan compensation, and
length of service.

The
Company also administers other defined contribution plans for eligible
employees.  The cost of these plans for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $8.

Multi-Employer
Plans

The
Company also contributes to various multi-employer pension plans based on
obligations arising from most of its collective bargaining agreements. 
These plans provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service
to contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in
trust for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by
employers and unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for
determining the level of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for
such matters as the investment of the assets and the administration of the
plans.

The
Company recognizes expense in connection with these plans as contributions are
funded.  The Company made contributions to these funds, and recognized
expense, of $233 in 2009, $219 in 2008, and $207 in 2007.


Based
on the most recent information available to it, the Company believes that the
present value of actuarial accrued liabilities in most or all of these
multi-employer plans substantially exceeds the value of the assets held in
trust to pay benefits.  Moreover, if the Company were to exit certain
markets or otherwise cease making contributions to these funds, the Company
could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability.  Any adjustment for
withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability
exists and can be reasonably estimated.

14.

RECENTLY
ADOPTED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In December 2008,
the FASB amended its existing standards to provide additional guidance on
employers’ disclosures about the plan assets of defined benefit pension or
other postretirement plans.  The new
standards require disclosures about how investment allocation decisions are
made, the fair value of each major category of plan assets, valuation
techniques used to develop fair value measurements of plan assets, the effect
of measurements on changes in plan assets when using significant unobservable
inputs and significant concentrations of risk in the plan assets.  The new standards become effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2009. 
The Company adopted the amended standards effective January 30,
2010.  See Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for the new required disclosures.

Effective May 24,
2009, the Company adopted new standards for subsequent events.  The purpose of the new standards is to
establish general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that
occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued
or are available to be issued.  See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for the new required disclosures.

Effective May 24,
2009, the Company adopted  new standards
that effect the accounting and disclosures related to certain financial
instruments including: (a) providing additional guidance for estimating
fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability
have significantly decreased; (b) identifying circumstances that indicate
a transaction is not orderly; (c) amending the other-than-temporary
impairment guidance for debt securities to make the guidance more operational
and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary
impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements; and (d) requiring
disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments on an interim basis
in addition to the annual disclosure requirements.  The new disclosures are included in Note 7 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The adoption of these new standards did not have a material effect on
the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Effective
February 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new standards that require
enhanced disclosures on an entity’s derivative and hedging activities.  The new disclosures are included in Note 6 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Effective
February 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new standards that clarify that
share-based payment awards that entitle their holders to receive nonforfeitable
dividends before vesting should be considered participating securities and
included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method.  See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of its adoption.

Effective
February 1, 2009, the Company adopted new standards related to business
combinations.  The new standards expand
the definitions of a business and the fair value measurement and reporting in a
business combination.  All business
combinations completed after February 1, 2009, will be accounted for under
the new standards.

Effective
February 1, 2009, the Company adopted new standards that deferred the fair
value disclosures for most non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities
to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008.  See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of the adoption of the new standards.


In December 2007,
the FASB amended its existing standards for a parent’s noncontrolling interest
in a subsidiary and the accounting for future ownership changes with respect to
the subsidiary.  The new standard defines
a noncontrolling interest, previously called a minority interest, as the
portion of equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable, directly or
indirectly, to a parent.  The new
standard requires, among other things, that a noncontrolling interest be
clearly identified, labeled and presented in the consolidated balance sheet as
equity, but separate from the parent’s equity; that the amount of consolidated
net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be
clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of
income; and that if a subsidiary is deconsolidated, the parent measure at fair
value any noncontrolling equity investment that the parent retains in the
former subsidiary and recognize a gain or loss in net income based on the fair
value of the non-controlling equity investment. 
The Company adopted the new standard effective February 1, 2009,
and applied it retrospectively.  As a
result, the Company reclassified noncontrolling interests in amounts of $95
from the mezzanine section to equity in the January 31, 2009 Consolidated
Balance Sheet.  Certain reclassifications
to the Consolidated Statements of Operations have been made to prior period
amounts to conform to the presentation of the current period under the new
standard.  Recorded amounts for prior
periods previously presented as Net Earnings, which are now presented as Net
Earnings Attributable to The Kroger Co., have not changed as a result of the
adoption of the new standard.

Effective
January 31, 2009, the Company adopted the amended standards related to
disclosures about interests in VIEs. 
These amended standards require additional disclosures about an entity’s
involvement with variable interest entities and transfers of financial
assets.

The adoption of these new amended standards did not
change any disclosures in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements

due to the
Company’s VIE’s being immaterial.

15.

R

ECENTLY

I

SSUED

A

CCOUNTING

S

TANDARDS

In June 2009, the
FASB amended its existing standards to change how a company determines when an
entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting
(or similar rights) should be consolidated. 
The new standards will become effective for the Company’s fiscal year
beginning January 31, 2010.  While
the Company is still finalizing its evaluation of the impact of these amended
standards on its Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company believes these
new standards will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial
Statements.

In January 2010, the
FASB issued guidance which amends and clarifies existing guidance related to
fair value measurements and disclosures. This guidance requires new disclosures
for (1) transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 and reasons for such
transfers; and (2) the separate presentation of purchases, sales,
issuances and settlement in the Level 3 reconciliation. It also clarifies
guidance around disaggregation and disclosures of inputs and valuation techniques
for Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance is effective for
the Company for the first quarter of 2010, except for the new disclosures in
the Level 3 reconciliation. The Level 3 disclosures are effective for the
Company for the first quarter of 2011. 
The Company does not expect that this guidance will have a material
impact on its Consolidated Financial Statements.

16.

G

UARANTOR

S

UBSIDIARIES

The
Company’s outstanding public debt (the “Guaranteed Notes”) is jointly and
severally, fully and unconditionally guaranteed by The Kroger Co. and some of
its subsidiaries (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”).  At January 30,
2010, a total of approximately $7,308 of Guaranteed Notes was
outstanding.  The Guarantor Subsidiaries and non-guarantor subsidiaries
are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Kroger Co.  Separate financial
statements of The Kroger Co. and each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries are not
presented because the guarantees are full and unconditional and the Guarantor
Subsidiaries are jointly and severally liable.  The Company believes that
separate financial statements and other disclosures concerning the Guarantor
Subsidiaries would not be material to investors.

The
non-guaranteeing subsidiaries represent less than 3% on an individual and
aggregate basis of consolidated assets, pre-tax earnings, cash flow, and
equity.  Therefore, the non-guarantor subsidiaries’ information is not
separately presented in the tables below.

There
are no current restrictions on the ability of the Guarantor Subsidiaries to
make payments under the guarantees referred to above, except, however, the
obligations of each guarantor under its guarantee are limited to the maximum
amount as will result in obligations of such guarantor under its guarantee not
constituting a fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer for purposes of
Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent
Transfer Act, or any similar Federal or state law (e.g., adequate capital to
pay dividends under corporate laws).


The
following tables present summarized financial information as of January 30,
2010 and January 31, 2009 and for the three years ended January 30,
2010.

Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of January 30, 2010


Condensed Consolidating

Balance Sheets

As of January 31, 2009


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended January 30, 2010

Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended January 31, 2009


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Operations

For the Year ended February 2, 2008


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended January 30, 2010


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended January 31, 2009


Condensed Consolidating

Statements of Cash Flows

For the Year ended February 2, 2008


17.

S

UBSEQUENT

E

VENTS

In
February 2010, the Company purchased the remaining outstanding shares of
The Little Clinic LLC for $86.  At
year-end 2009, The Little Clinic LLC was a consolidated VIE.

On March 9, 2010,
the Company filed an action (

The Kroger Co., et al. v.
Excentus Corporation

, Case No. 1:10-cv-00161-SSB, in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, Western Division at
Cincinnati) seeking a declaration that the Company’s actions related to fuel
rewards programs do not infringe certain patents allegedly held by Excentus
Corporation and that certain patents allegedly held by Excentus Corporation are
invalid.  Shortly after the Company filed
the action, on March 9, 2010, Excentus Corporation filed an action against
the Company (

Excentus Corporation v. The Kroger Co.

,
Case No. 3:10-cv-00483, in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division) seeking to recover damages from
the Company for its alleged infringement of patents claimed to be held by
Excentus Corporation, along with injunctive relief enjoining the Company from
infringing the patents by reason of its actions related to fuel reward
programs.  Although these lawsuits are
subject to uncertainties inherent in the litigation process and have only
recently been filed, based on the information available to the Company,
management does not expect that the ultimate resolution of these matters will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of
operations, or cash flows.

18.

Q

UARTERLY

D

ATA

(U

NAUDITED

)

Annual
amounts may not sum due to rounding.


ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

None.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.

As of January 30, 2010, the Chief Executive Officer and
the Chief Financial Officer, together with a disclosure review committee
appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, evaluated Kroger’s disclosure
controls and procedures.  Based on that evaluation, Kroger’s Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Kroger’s
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 30, 2010.

C

HANGES IN

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

There was no change in Kroger’s internal control over
financial reporting during the fiscal quarter ended January 30, 2010, that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Kroger’s
internal control over financial reporting.

M

ANAGEMENT’S

R

EPORT ON

I

NTERNAL

C

ONTROL

O

VER

F

INANCIAL

R

EPORTING

The
management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company.  With
the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
Officer, our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and criteria
established in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
the Treadway Commission.  Based on this evaluation, our management has
concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of January 30, 2010.

The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of January 30, 2010, has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
as stated in their report, which can be found in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9B.

OTHER
INFORMATION.

None.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.

The
information required by this Item not otherwise set forth below is set forth
under the headings Election of Directors and Information Concerning the Board
of Directors in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with
the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference
into this Form 10-K.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

Based
solely on its review of the copies of all Section 16(a) forms
received by the Company, and any written representations from certain persons
that no Forms 5 were required by those persons, the Company believes that
during 2009 all filing requirements applicable to its officers, directors and
10% beneficial owners were timely satisfied, with one exception.  Mr. Ronald L. Sargent filed a Form 4
three days late, reporting phantom shares received in connection with a
deferred compensation plan, due to a technical failure by the plan record
keeper that caused him to receive late notification of the transaction.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following is a list of the names and ages of the
executive officers and the positions held by each such person or those chosen
to become executive officers as of March 30, 2010.  Except as
otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years. 
Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing
year until removed or replaced.




ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The information required by this Item is set forth in the
sections entitled Compensation Discussion and Analysis, Compensation Committee
Report, Executive Compensation, and Compensation Policies as they Relate to
Risk Management in the definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by
reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The following table provides information regarding shares
outstanding and available for issuance under the Company’s existing equity
compensation plans.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The remainder of the information required by this Item is set
forth in the Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock table in the definitive proxy
statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE.

This information required by this Item is set forth in the
sections entitled Related Person Transactions and Information Concerning the
Board of Directors-Independence in the definitive proxy statement to be filed
by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is hereby
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.

The information required by this Item is set forth in the
section entitled Selection of Auditors — Disclosure of Auditor Fees in the
definitive proxy statement to be filed by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

(a)1.

Financial Statements:

(a)2.

Financial Statement
Schedules:

There are no Financial Statement Schedules included
with this filing for the reason that they are not applicable or are not
required or the information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

(a)3.(b)

Exhibits

3.1

Amended Articles of
Incorporation are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 20,
2006, filed with the SEC on June 29, 2006.

3.2

The Company’s regulations are
hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 26, 2007, filed with
the SEC on July 3, 2007.

4.1

Instruments defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries are not
filed as Exhibits because the amount of debt under each instrument is less than
10% of the consolidated assets of the Company.  The Company undertakes to
file these instruments with the Commission upon request.

10.1*

Non-Employee Directors’
Deferred Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix J to Exhibit 99.1
of Fred Meyer, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 9,
1997, SEC File No. 1-13339.

10.2*

The Kroger Co. Deferred
Compensation Plan for Independent Directors.  Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005.

10.3*

The Kroger Co. Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29,
2005.

10.4*

The Kroger Co. 401(k) Retirement
Savings Account Restoration Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Company’s Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007.

10.5*

Dillon Companies, Inc.
Excess Benefit Pension Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Company’s Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007.

10.6*

The Kroger Co. Supplemental
Retirement Plans for Certain Retirement Benefit Plan Participants.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3,
2007.

10.7*

The Kroger Co. 2006 Long-Term
Bonus Plan.

10.8*

The Kroger Co. 2005 Long-Term
Incentive Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the
Company’s Form S-8 filed with the SEC on June 23, 2005.

10.9*

Form of Restricted Stock
Grant Agreement under Long-Term Incentive Plans.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9
of the Company’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3,
2007.


10.10*

Form of Non-Qualified
Stock Option Grant Agreement under Long-Term Incentive Plans.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 24, 2008.

10.11

Five Year Credit Agreement
dated as of November 15, 2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1
of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 20,
2006.

10.12

4(2) Commercial Paper
Dealer Agreement between The Kroger Co., as Issuer and Banc of America
Securities, LLC, as Dealer dated as of December 3, 2003, as amended on July 23,
2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005.

10.13

4(2) Commercial Paper
Dealer Agreement between The Kroger Co., as Issuer and Citigroup Global Markets
Inc., as Dealer dated as of December 3, 2003, as amended on June 9,
2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005.

10.14*

Disclosure of compensation of
non-employee directors. Incorporated by reference to Item 2.02 of the Company’s
Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004.

10.15*

The Kroger Co. Employee
Protection Plan dated December 13, 2007. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Company’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008.

10.16*

The Kroger Co. 2008 Long-Term
Bonus Plan.  Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.16 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended February 2, 2008.

10.17*

The Kroger Co. 2008 Long-Term Incentive and Cash
Bonus Plan.  Incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Form S-8 filed with the SEC on June 26,
2008.

10.18*

Letter Agreement dated June 24,
2009 between the Company and Don W. McGeorge. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended August 15, 2009.

12.1

Statement of Computation of
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21.1

Subsidiaries of the
Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm.

24.1

Powers of Attorney.

31.1

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification.

31.2

Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification.

32.1

Section 1350
Certifications

101.INS

XBRL Instance Document.

101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.

101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
Document.

* 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the
capacities indicated on the 30th of March 2010.


By:

(*Bruce
  M. Gack)

Bruce
  M. Gack

Attorney-in-fact


EXHIBIT INDEX


* 
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

83