Item 1.    BUSINESS

The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally
engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and
individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the state of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back
to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also maintains
executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut, and St. Paul, Minnesota. The term
"TRV" in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

For
a summary of the Company's revenues, operating income and total assets by reportable business segments, see note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent
relationships and methods of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of independent agents, exclusive agents, direct marketing (including the use of toll-free numbers and the internet)
and/or salaried employees. According to A.M. Best, there are approximately 1,300 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,750 property and casualty
companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 92% of the consolidated industry's total net written premiums in 2012. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers.
In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional
insurance products. These products include large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The Company's
competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including the following:

•premiums charged;•contract terms and conditions;•products and services offered;•claim service;•agent, broker and client relationships;•local presence;•geographic scope of business;•overall financial strength;•ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•experience and qualifications of employees; and•technology and information systems.

In
addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by policyholders' surplus, and the availability of reinsurance. Industry capacity as
measured by policyholders' surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through dividends and share
repurchases. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase policyholders' surplus.









Pricing and Underwriting

Pricing of the Company's property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses,
the expenses associated with producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money related to the expected loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable allowance for
profit that considers the capital needed to support the Company's business. The Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that over the long-term emphasizes product
returns and profitable growth rather than premium volume or market share. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The
applicable state laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price
competition. The Company's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements, as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2013:

State% ofTotalCalifornia10.1%New York9.9Texas7.2Pennsylvania4.9Florida4.2New Jersey4.0Illinois4.0Massachusetts3.3Georgia3.1All other domestic(1)44.7​​​​​Total domestic95.4International4.6​​​​​Consolidated total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2013 by the Company's domestic operations.

Catastrophe Exposure

The wide geographic distribution of the Company's property and casualty insurance operations exposes it to claims arising out of
catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze underwriting risks of business in
natural catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorist attacks (defined as attacks other than nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events). The Company relies, in
part, upon this analysis to make underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. For example, the Company
has limited the writing of new property and homeowners business in some markets and has selectively taken underwriting actions on new and existing business. These underwriting actions on new and
existing business include tightened underwriting standards, selective price increases and changes to deductibles specific to hurricane-, tornado-, wind- and hail-prone areas. See
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions."









The
Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See "—Reinsurance."

The
Company is organized into three reportable business segments: Business Insurance; Financial, Professional & International Insurance; and Personal Insurance.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients
primarily in the United States. Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core
operations:

•

Select Accountsprovides small businesses with property and casualty
products, including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

Commercial Accountsprovides mid-sized businesses with property and
casualty products, including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

National Accountsprovides large companies with casualty products and
services, including workers' compensation, general liability and automobile liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis. National Accounts also
includes the Company's commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers' compensation products and services to the involuntary market.

•

Industry-Focused Underwriting.

The following units provide
targeted industries with differentiated combinations of insurance coverage, risk management, claims handling and other services:



•

Constructionserves a broad range of construction businesses, offering
guaranteed cost products and loss sensitive programs structured to meet customer needs. Products offered include workers' compensation, general liability and commercial auto coverages, and other risk
management solutions.

•

Technologyserves small to large companies involved in telecommunications,
information technology, medical technology and electronics manufacturing, offering a comprehensive portfolio of products and services. Products offered include commercial property, commercial auto,
general liability, workers' compensation, internet liability, technology errors and omissions coverages and global companion products.

•

Public Sector Servicesprovides insurance products and services to public
entities including municipalities, counties, Indian Nation gaming organizations and selected special government districts such as water and sewer utilities. Products offered by this unit typically
cover commercial property, commercial auto, general liability, professional liability and workers' compensation exposures.

•

Oil & Gasprovides specialized property and liability products and
services for customers involved in the exploration and production of oil and natural gas, including operators, drilling and well servicing contractors, supply companies and manufacturers that support
upstream operations. Products offered include workers' compensation, general liability, commercial auto, commercial property, control of well and other risk management solutions.

•

Agribusinessserves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses,
including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations. Products offered include property and liability coverages other than workers' compensation.









•

Target Risk Underwriting.

The following units serve
commercial businesses requiring specialized product underwriting, claims handling and risk management services:



•

National Propertyprovides traditional and customized property insurance
programs to large and mid-sized customers, including office building owners, manufacturers, municipalities and schools, retailers and service businesses.

•

Inland Marineprovides insurance for goods in transit and movable objects
for customers such as jewelers, museums, contractors and the transportation industry. Builders' risk insurance is also offered to customers during the construction, renovation or repair of buildings
and other structures.

•

Ocean Marineserves the marine transportation industry and related
services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade. The Company's product offerings in this unit fall under six main coverage categories: marine liability, cargo, hull and
machinery, protection and indemnity, pleasure craft, and marine property and liability.

•

Excess Casualtyserves small to mid-sized commercial businesses, offering
mono-line umbrella and excess coverage where the Company typically does not write the primary casualty coverage or where other business units within the Company prefer to access the underwriting
expertise and/or limit capacity of the Excess Casualty business unit.

•

Boiler & Machineryserves small to large companies, offering
comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages. Through the BoilerRe unit, Boiler & Machinery also serves other property and casualty
carriers that do not have in-house expertise with reinsurance, underwriting, engineering, claim handling and risk management services for this type of coverage.

•

Global Partner Servicesprovides insurance to foreign organizations with
property and liability exposures located in the United States (reverse-flow) as part of a global program.

•

Specialized Distribution.The following units market and
underwrite their products to customers predominantly through licensed wholesale agents and program managers that manage customers' unique insurance requirements:•Northlandprovides insurance coverage for the commercial transportation
industry, as well as commercial liability and commercial property policies for small, difficult to place specialty classes of commercial business, primarily on an excess and surplus lines basis.•National Programsoffers tailored property and casualty programs on an
admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements. Programs available include, but are not limited to, those for entertainment, architects and engineers, equipment
rental, golf services and owners of franchised businesses.

Business
Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain other runoff
operations, which are collectively referred to as Business Insurance Other.









Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Business Insurance net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201320122011% of Total2013By market:Select Accounts$2,724$2,775$2,78422.3%Commercial Accounts3,1973,1012,89026.1National Accounts1,0109077828.3Industry-Focused Underwriting2,6452,5542,40721.6Target Risk Underwriting1,7991,6661,58714.7Specialized Distribution8588708807.0​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business Insurance Core12,23311,87311,330100.0Business Insurance Other—(1)10—​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business Insurance by market$12,233$11,872$11,340100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​By product line:Workers' compensation$3,642$3,400$2,95929.8%Commercial automobile1,8971,9241,95515.5Commercial property1,7481,6471,59514.3General liability1,8231,7651,70514.9Commercial multi-peril3,0833,1003,09625.2Other4036300.3​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business Insurance by product line$12,233$11,872$11,340100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Business Insurance distributes its products through approximately 10,500 independent agencies and brokers located throughout the United
States that are serviced by 116 field offices and three customer service centers. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology utilizing internet-based
applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with independent agencies and brokers. Business Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and
brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's financial strength, staff
experience and strategic fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products
offered by the Select Accounts, Commercial Accounts, Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting groups are distributed through a common base of independent agents and brokers, many of
whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance products. Additionally, the Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting groups may underwrite business with agents that specialize in
servicing the needs of certain of the industries served by these groups.

Select Accountsis a leading provider of commercial property and casualty insurance products to small businesses, generally with fewer
than 50 employees. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is independently
evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of new small business risks at their desktop in an efficient manner that
significantly reduces the time period between quoting a price on a new policy and issuing that policy. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company
personnel. The automated underwriting platform has significantly streamlined









the
agent desktop underwriting process. Select Accounts has established a strong marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies,
a broad array of products and competitive prices. In addition, the Company has established centralized service centers to help agents perform many service functions, in return for a fee.

Commercial Accountssells a broad range of commercial property and casualty insurance products through a large network of independent
agents and brokers, primarily targeting mid-sized businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees. The Company offers a full line of products to its Commercial Accounts customers with an emphasis on guaranteed
cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Commercial
Accounts to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base.

National Accountssells a variety of casualty products and services to large companies through a network of national and regional brokers,
primarily utilizing loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a retrospectively rated or a guaranteed cost insurance policy.
National Accounts also provides casualty products and services through retail brokers on an unbundled basis, using third-party administrators for insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized
deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. National Accounts provides insurance-related services, such as risk management services, claims administration, loss control and risk management
information services, either in addition to, or in lieu of, pure risk coverage, and generated $229 million of fee income in 2013, excluding commercial residual market business. The commercial
residual market business of National Accounts sells claims and policy management services to workers' compensation pools throughout the United States, and generated $111 million in fee income
in 2013. National Accounts services approximately 34% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry.

Workers'
compensation accounted for approximately 75% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2013, based on direct written premiums and fees.

Industry-Focused Underwritingmarkets commercial property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of agents
and brokers. These products and services are tailored to targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other
insurance-related products and services.

Target Risk Underwritingmarkets commercial property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of agents and
brokers to a wide customer base having specialized property and casualty coverage requirements.

Specialized Distributiondistributes admitted as well as excess and surplus lines property and casualty products predominantly through
selected wholesale agents and program managers, both on a brokerage and delegated authority underwriting basis. These brokers, wholesale agents and program managers operate in certain markets that are
not typically served by the Company's appointed retail agents, or they maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is
characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with wholesale agents or program managers on a brokerage basis,
Specialized Distribution underwrites the business and sets the premium level. In working with wholesale agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce and
underwrite business subject to underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.









Pricing and Underwriting

Business Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for particular industries,
in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The Company utilizes both
standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.

Product Lines

The Business Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages:

•Workers'
Compensation.Provides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to
employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The
Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on the injured employee's early return to work
and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers' compensation products:•guaranteed-cost insurance products, in which policy premium charges are fixed for the period of coverage and do not vary
as a result of the insured's loss experience;•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which fees or
premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees
rather than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements.

The
Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.

•Commercial
Automobile.Provides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties,
property damage to an insured's vehicle and property









damage
to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.

•

Commercial
Property.Provides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from a variety of events, including, among
others, hurricanes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss
due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. For additional information on terrorism coverages, see "Reinsurance—Catastrophe Reinsurance—Terrorism Risk
Insurance Program." Property also includes specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and
inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

•

General
Liability.Insures businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their
operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products sold. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in their official
capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for
employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

•

Commercial
Multi-Peril.Provides a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line descriptions.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Business Insurance segment as of January 1,
2014. For third-party liability, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $18.8 million per insured, per occurrence. The net
retained amount per risk for property exposures is generally limited to $20.0 million per occurrence, after reinsurance. The Company generally retains its workers' compensation exposures.
Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to
provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual
characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2013:

State% ofTotalCalifornia13.2%New York7.9Texas7.5Illinois5.0Florida4.0Pennsylvania4.0New Jersey3.8Massachusetts3.4All others(1)51.2​​​​​Total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2013 by the Business Insurance segment.

Competition

The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other
entities offering risk alternatives, such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for insurance
products and the levels of coverage and service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to profitably provide insurance and
services, including claims handling and risk control, at prices and terms that retain existing customers and attract new customers.

Competitors
typically write Select Accounts business through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers and direct writers. Both national and regional property and
casualty insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower-hazard, "Main Street" business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry
practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on product offerings, service levels, ease of doing business and
price.

Competitors
typically write Commercial Accounts business through independent agents and brokers. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance
companies that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies.
Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and rapid response time to customer needs is one key to
success in this market.

In
the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems
and collateral requirements. National Accounts primarily competes with national property and casualty insurance companies, as well as with other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the
alternative risk transfer market, such as self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a variety of other risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market division competes for
state contracts to provide claims and policy management services.









There
are several other business groups in Business Insurance that compete in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry
knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these business groups
compete with national carriers with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Each of these business groups has regional structures
that allow them to deliver personalized service and local knowledge to their customer base. Specialized agents and brokers, including wholesale agents and program managers, supplement this strategy.
In all of these business groups, the competitive strategy typically is the application of focused industry knowledge to insurance and risk needs.

FINANCIAL, PROFESSIONAL & INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE

The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and financial liability coverages, which primarily
use credit-based underwriting processes, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, and on an
international basis as a corporate member of Lloyd's. The segment includes the following groups:

•

Bond & Financial Productsprovides a wide range of customers with
bond and insurance products and risk management services. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general commercial
enterprises; management liability coverages for losses caused by the actual or alleged negligence or misconduct of directors and officers or employee dishonesty; employment practices liability
coverages and fiduciary coverages for public corporations, private companies and not-for-profit organizations; professional liability coverage for actual or alleged errors and omissions committed in
the course of professional conduct or practice for a variety of professionals including, among others, lawyers and design professionals; and professional and management liability, property, workers'
compensation, auto and general liability and fidelity insurance for financial institutions.

•

International,through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and
the Republic of Ireland, offers specialized insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, public services, and financial and
professional services industry sectors. In addition, International markets personal lines and small commercial insurance business in Canada through The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company
(Dominion), which the Company acquired on November 1, 2013. International, through its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, underwrites
through five principal business units—marine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and aviation.

The
Company owns 49.5% of the common stock of J. Malucelli Participações em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. (JMalucelli), its joint venture in Brazil.
JMalucelli is currently the market leader in surety in Brazil based on market share, and commenced writing other property and casualty insurance business in 2012. The Company's investment in
JMalucelli is accounted for using the equity method and is included in "other investments" on the consolidated balance sheet.







Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums by market and product line
for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product
Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201320122011% of Total2013By market:Bond & Financial Products$2,030$1,924$1,95361.3%International1,2791,0571,14938.7​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by market$3,309$2,981$3,102100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​By product line:Fidelity and surety$918$895$95727.7%General liability93485983628.2International1,2791,0571,14938.7Other1781701605.4​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by product line$3,309$2,981$3,102100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Within the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, Bond & Financial Products distributes the vast
majority of its products in the United States through approximately 6,100 of the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute the Business Insurance segment's products. These independent
agencies and brokers are located throughout the United States. Bond & Financial Products, in conjunction with the Business Insurance segment, continues to make investments in enhanced
technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers. Bond & Financial Products builds relationships with
well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Financial Products considers, among other
attributes, each agency's or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing
performance is closely monitored. In addition, Bond & Financial Products sells its surety products through independent brokers in the United Kingdom.

The
International market distributes its products principally through brokers in the domestic markets of each of the countries in which it operates. It also writes business at Lloyd's,
where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses, Financial, Professional & International Insurance has access to
international markets across the world. In late 2008, the Company commenced an exclusive relationship with a broker in the Republic of Ireland that significantly increased the 2009 volume of personal
automobile coverage written and also resulted in the Company writing personal household coverages. The Company ceased writing business through this relationship in the fourth quarter of 2010 and
ceased writing all remaining personal insurance business in the Republic of Ireland in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Pricing and Underwriting

Financial, Professional & International Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development
disciplines for specific accounts, industries and countries, in









conjunction
with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The Company utilizes both
standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.

Product Lines

The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment writes the following types of
coverages:

•

Fidelity and
Surety.Provides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.
Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other performance bonds.

•

General
Liability.Provides coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the "Business Insurance" section
of this report.

•

International.Provides coverage for employers' liability (similar to workers'
compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability (the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), auto and motor
(similar to automobile coverage in the United States), commercial property, personal property, surety, marine, aviation, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship
hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, offshore energy, ports and terminals, fine art and terrorism. Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including
physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident provides financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to
accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the
U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms potentially very different from those the Company faces in the United States.

•

Other.Coverages include Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and
Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in more detail in the "Business Insurance" section of this report.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Financial, Professional & International
Insurance segment as of January 1, 2014. In the U.S. operations for third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers'
liability, and employment practices liability, Financial, Professional & International Insurance generally limits net retentions to $25.0 million per policy. For surety protection, where
insured limits are often significant, the Company generally retains up to $75.0 million probable maximum loss (PML) per principal but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation,
credit quality and other credit risk factors. In the International operations, per-risk retentions are limited to a maximum of $18.8 million, after reinsurance. Reinsurance treaties often have
aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits
capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Financial, Professional & International's direct written premiums for
the states that accounted for the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2013:

State% ofTotalCalifornia6.6%Texas5.3New York5.2Florida3.1All other domestic(1)46.4​​​​​Total domestic66.6Total international33.4​​​​​Total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state within the United States accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2013 by the Financial,
Professional & International Insurance segment.

Competition

The competitive landscape in which Bond & Financial Products operates is affected by many of the same factors described
previously for the Business Insurance segment. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional
products and pricing and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.

Bond &
Financial Products underwrites and markets its products to all sizes of businesses and other organizations, as well as individuals. The Company believes that its reputation
for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its
customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Financial Products an advantage over many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The
Company believes that the ability of Bond & Financial Products to cross-sell its products to customers of the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments provides additional competitive
advantages for the Company.

International
competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Companies compete on the basis of price, product
offerings and
the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and provides both
property and casualty coverage for these markets.

At
Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd's operation
writes business worldwide. Competition is again based on price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite effectively and profitably with an emphasis on
short-tail insurance lines.

PERSONAL INSURANCE

The Company's Personal Insurance segment writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks.
The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.









Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information

The following table sets forth net written premiums for the Personal Insurance segment's business by product line for the periods
indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution"
for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201320122011% of Total2013By product line:Automobile$3,370$3,642$3,78846.6%Homeowners and Other3,8553,9523,95753.4​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Personal Insurance$7,225$7,594$7,745100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Personal Insurance products are distributed primarily through approximately 11,500 active independent agencies located throughout the
United States, supported by personnel in ten sales regions and seven service centers. While the principal markets for Personal Insurance products continue to be in states along the East Coast,
California and Texas, the business continues to expand its geographic presence across the United States. See "Competition" below for a discussion of the Company's new private passenger automobile
product, Quantum Auto 2.0.

In
selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience
and strategic fit with the segment's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully monitors its performance.

Agents
can access the Company's agency service portal for a number of resources including customer service, marketing and claims management. In addition, agencies can choose to shift the
ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's five Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of
customer service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately 1,700 agents take advantage of this service alternative.

Personal
Insurance also distributes its products through additional channels, including corporations that make the company's product offerings available to their employees primarily
through payroll deduction, consumer associations and affinity groups. Personal Insurance handles the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or through two
of the Company's call center locations. In addition, since 1995, the Company has had a marketing agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for certain of their auto customers.

In
2009, the Company began marketing its insurance products directly to consumers, largely through online channels. The investment in the direct-to-consumer initiative generated modest
premium volume for Personal Insurance in recent years, which was consistent with the Company's expectations. However, the direct-to-consumer initiative, while intended to enhance the Company's
long-term ability to
compete successfully in a consumer-driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as the Company continues to develop, test and evaluate this distribution channel.

Pricing and Underwriting

Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claim, actuarial and
product development. This approach is designed to









maintain
high quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary data accumulated over many years is analyzed and Personal Insurance uses a variety of risk differentiation models to
facilitate its pricing segmentation. The Company's product management area establishes underwriting guidelines integrated with its filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to
effectively execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

The
Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the
competitive environment, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. The Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write in some states
for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other commercial or personal underwriting opportunities. In choosing to write business in some states, the Company also considers the costs and
benefits of those states' residual markets and guaranty funds, as well as other property and casualty business the Company writes in those states.

Personal
Insurance utilizes technology intended to maximize independent agents' ease of doing business with the Company. Automated quote transactions can be submitted online by
independent agents either through Personal Insurance's proprietary platform, their own agency management platform or comparative raters (discussed in more detail in the "Competition" section that
follows). Nearly all new business policies can be issued online either by using the agents' own platform or Personal Insurance's platform, both of which interface with Personal Insurance's
underwriting and rating systems to monitor transactions for compliance with the company's underwriting and pricing programs. All on-line business is subject to consultative review by Personal
Insurance's in-house underwriters. Audits of on-line business are conducted by an internal review team using systematic sampling across all of the Company's distribution channels.

Product Lines

The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners and other insurance sold to individuals. Personal
Insurance had approximately 6.4 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) at December 31, 2013.









The
Personal Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages:

•Personal Automobileprovides coverage for liability to others for both
bodily injury and property damage, uninsured motorist protection, and for physical damage to an insured's own vehicle from collision, fire, flood, hail and theft. In addition, many states require
policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.•Homeowners and Otherprovides protection against losses to dwellings and
contents from a variety of perils (excluding flooding) as well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and tenants, and rental
properties. The Company also writes coverage for boats and yachts and valuable personal items such as jewelry, and also writes coverages for umbrella liability, identity fraud, and weddings and
special events.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Personal Insurance segment as of January 1,
2014. The Company generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is an $8.0 million maximum retention per risk. Personal
Insurance retains the first $10.0 million of umbrella policies and purchases facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis.
The Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2013:

State% ofTotalNew York15.6%Texas(1)7.6Pennsylvania7.6California6.2New Jersey5.2Florida5.0Georgia4.5Virginia4.2Connecticut4.2Massachusetts3.5Maryland3.5All others(2)32.9​​​​​Total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​

(1)The
percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer.(2)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2013 by the Personal Insurance segment.









Competition

CLAIMS MANAGEMENT

The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services operation, with locations in the United States and in the
countries where it does business. With more than 12,000 employees, Claims Services employs a diverse group of professionals, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys, investigators, engineers,
accountants, system specialists and training,
management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as investigators, attorneys and, in the rare circumstances when necessary, independent adjusters and appraisers, are
available for use as appropriate.

U.S.
field claim management teams located in 21 claim centers and 57 satellite and specialty-only offices in 45 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim
characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company's business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, required licenses, resources and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of
those businesses, with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow
design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial









reporting
and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond
promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims management for International, while generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to
local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, is also managed by the Company's U.S. Claims Services organization to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An
integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative
Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts who investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This staff also
has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are reported
to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.

Claims
Services uses technology, management information and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results in order to evaluate and improve its claims
management performance. The Company's claims management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company
continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a state-of-the-art
claims training facility, offering hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In recent years, the Company has invested significant additional
resources in many of its claim handling operations and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent optimization among outcomes, cost and service.

Claims
Services' catastrophe response strategy is to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel, enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjusters and
appraisers. The Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of
a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these internal resources were successfully deployed to respond to a record
number of catastrophe claims.

REINSURANCE









concerning
reinsurance, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A—Risk Factors."

The
Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including:

•facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single
policy and each policy reinsured is separately negotiated;•quota share reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and
losses for each policy covered on a pro rata basis;•treaty reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and•catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Company is indemnified for an amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with
respect to losses resulting from a catastrophic event.

For
a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see note 16 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Included
in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to structured settlements, which are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal
physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the amount due from the life
insurance company related to the structured settlement is included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as a reinsurance recoverable and the related claim cost is included in the liability for
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. If it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, the Company would
recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. In the event that the life insurance
company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments.

Catastrophe Reinsurance







General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.The Company utilizes a general catastrophe reinsurance treaty with unaffiliated reinsurers to
help manage its
exposure to losses resulting from catastrophes. The general catastrophe reinsurance treaty covers the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence. The treaty covers all of the
Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their possessions, and waters contiguous thereto, the Caribbean and Mexico. The treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited
circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks.

The
following table summarizes the Company's coverage under its General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty, effective for the period July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014, as well
as certain other catastrophe-related coverages, other than coverage related to the General Catastrophe Aggregate Excess-of-Loss Treaty which is described later in this section.

Layer of LossReinsurance Coverage In-Force$0 - $1.5 billionLoss 100% retained by the Company, except for certain losses covered by the Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty as described below.$1.5 billion - $2.25 billion53.3% ($400 million) of loss covered by treaty; 46.7% ($350 million) of loss retained by the Company. Additionally, certain losses incurred in the Northeastern United States are covered by the reinsurance
agreements related to the Catastrophe Bonds as described below.Greater than $2.25 billion100% of loss retained by the Company, except for certain losses incurred in the Northeastern United States, which are covered by the reinsurance agreements related to the Catastrophe Bonds and Northeast General
Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty as described below.

Catastrophe Bonds.The Company has catastrophe protection through two indemnity reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III Ltd.
(Long Point
Re III), an independent Cayman Islands company licensed as a Class B insurer in the Cayman Islands. The reinsurance agreements expire in June 2015 and May 2016, respectively. Both reinsurance
agreements meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with each reinsurance agreement, Long Point Re III issued
notes (generally referred to as "catastrophe bonds") to investors in an amount equal to the full coverage provided under the respective reinsurance agreement as described below.

On
June 6, 2012, Long Point Re III completed an offering to unrelated investors of $250 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the
offering, the Company and Long Point Re III entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement providing coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. The
business covered by the reinsurance agreement comprises specified property and related coverages in the Company's Personal Insurance segment, and within the "Select Accounts" and the "Commercial
Accounts" business groups within the Company's Business Insurance segment. Covered losses under the agreement are limited to the following geographic locations: Connecticut, Delaware, District of
Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Vermont. The proceeds of the offering were deposited in a reinsurance trust
account. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage are reset annually to maintain modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss on the respective catastrophe bonds equal to
the initial modeled
probabilities of attachment and expected loss. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage were reset in April 2013. Accordingly, for the period May 1, 2013 through
April 30, 2014,









the
Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of
$1.817 billion. The full $250 million coverage amount is available on a proportional basis until covered losses reach a maximum $2.427 billion.

Under
the terms of both reinsurance agreements, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Long Point Re III for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable to the
Company under both reinsurance agreements with respect to any covered event cannot exceed the Company's actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the respective catastrophe bond will be
reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the respective reinsurance agreement.

As
with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Long Point Re III, the credit risk is mitigated by
reinsurance trust accounts that have been funded by Long Point Re III with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations and obligations backed by the U.S. government with
maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor's on the issuance date of the bonds and thereafter
must be rated by Standard & Poor's. Other permissible investments include money market funds which invest in repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government obligations and obligations of any agency backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash.

At
the time the agreements were entered into with Long Point Re III, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs.
Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights
to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations, or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the
entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's expected residual
returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements.

As
a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and
(b) above were present. However, while Long Point Re III was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its
results, caused by the reinsurance









agreements,
is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III and residual amounts earned by it, if any, are expected to be absorbed by the
equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Long Point Re III).

Accordingly,
the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III and does not consolidate that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally,
because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III, the consolidation of that entity
in the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

The
Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted or are expected to result in a recovery under the Long Point Re III agreements since their inception.

Northeast General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.In addition to its general catastrophe treaty and its multi-year catastrophe bonds,
the Company
also is party to a northeast general catastrophe reinsurance treaty which provides up to $600 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention, for certain
losses arising from hurricanes, tornados, hail storms, earthquakes and winter storm or freeze losses from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014. Losses from
a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico and waters contiguous thereto may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the
catastrophe bonds (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to this treaty.

General Catastrophe Aggregate Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, the
Company has
entered into a reinsurance agreement that covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from multiple occurrences. For each occurrence, qualifying losses are 90% of $1.4 billion in
excess of $100 million. The treaty covers aggregate qualifying losses during 2014 for 40% of $1.0 billion in excess of $1.5 billion. The treaty covers all of the Company's
exposures in the United States and Canada and their possessions, and waters contiguous thereto, the Caribbean and Mexico.

Business Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014, the
Company has
entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $200 million of coverage, subject to a $160 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake, including
fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by the National Property, Technology and Public Sector business units and the Commercial Accounts market group.

Personal Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014,
the Company
has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $200 million of coverage, subject to a $150 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake,
including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by the Company's Personal Insurance segment.

Dominion Property and Automobile Physical Damage Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Contract.This contract, effective for the
period
January 1, 2014 through and including June 30, 2014, covers the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence which may accrue to Dominion. The treaty covers all of
Dominion's habitational property, commercial property and auto physical damages exposures with respect to risks located in Canada, written for Canadian insureds, including such insureds' interests
abroad. The treaty provides coverage for 100% of loss retained by Dominion in excess of $15 million, up to $700 million.

Other International Reinsurance Treaties.For other business underwritten in Canada, as well as for business written in the United
Kingdom, Republic
of Ireland and in the Company's operations at Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more









commensurate
with the size of the respective local balance sheet. The Company conducts an ongoing review of its risk and catastrophe coverages and makes changes as it deems appropriate.

Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program is a Federal program administered by the Department of the
Treasury that
provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from certified acts of terrorism. The current program has been authorized through 2014. For a
further description of the program, including the Company's estimated deductible under the program in 2014, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements and
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial
position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance."

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES

Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment
expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.

The
Company continually refines its reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process that includes review of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The
Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries
for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are also reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and
a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical
Accounting Estimates."

The
process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" section of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is
difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus occurrence),
claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the
insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The
Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for
each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the
relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation."

Discounting

The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long-term disability and annuity claim payments, primarily arising from
workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of









5%
at both December 31, 2013 and 2012. These discounted reserves totaled $2.21 billion and $2.01 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.

Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table

The table that follows sets forth the year-end reserves from 2003 through 2013 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented
on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for 2003 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition by Travelers Property Casualty
Corp. (TPC) of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC) in 2004 (referred to hereafter as the Merger). The table includes SPC reserves beginning at December 31, 2004. In addition, the
original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for 2003 through 2012 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Dominion in November 2013. The table
includes Dominion's reserves beginning at December 31, 2013.

The
data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those
unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 2003 to
2013 year-end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves.

For
instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year-end have
changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year-end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the original
reserves at the end of 2003 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2007 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of
$5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 2003 to 2006 shown in the accompanying table.

Various
factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiencies shown
in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post-1984 period, the Company has developed
more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that have
affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future.

Other
factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example,
reserves for long-term disability and annuity claim payments (tabular reserves), primarily arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, are
discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers' compensation
reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss
experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds.
Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated
policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Company's earnings but are not reflected in the table.









Because
of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table.





(at December 31, in millions)20032004200520062007200820092010201120122013

Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255$40,919$40,634$41,585

Cumulative amounts paid as of

One year later4,6518,8718,6327,4178,1467,5197,7487,6538,3268,416

Two years later8,68614,66613,83713,18112,79812,45412,37412,56713,447

Three years later11,54118,73318,46616,54516,26415,66815,70816,081

Four years later13,70822,51421,02519,11318,52418,05318,126

Five years later15,57424,57222,99220,82020,24419,824

Six years later16,62426,18924,42322,20521,609

Seven years later17,55827,46925,61623,381

Eight years later18,32028,55726,675

Nine years later18,98829,543

Ten years later19,602

Reserves re-estimated as of

One year later24,22241,70642,46642,17241,37339,86339,52439,41339,84539,690

Two years later25,27242,56542,31140,83739,92538,64038,42138,39338,964

Three years later26,04242,94041,69239,73938,84237,61337,53937,576

Four years later26,50143,14840,85538,73438,22336,89236,889

Five years later26,80342,65540,02638,40937,71636,361

Six years later26,61942,06839,84938,13437,323

Seven years later26,34242,01939,69437,858

Eight years later26,38241,98739,518

Nine years later26,43141,942

Ten years later26,455

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)2,400496(3,377)(4,986)(5,775)(4,951)(4,052)(2,679)(1,955)(944)

Gross liability—end of year$34,760$59,438$61,461$59,677$58,094$55,121$53,529$51,537$51,353$50,888$50,865

Reinsurance recoverables10,70517,99218,56616,83314,99613,80912,58811,28210,43410,2549,280



​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Net liability—end of year$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255$40,919$40,634$41,585



​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



Gross re-estimated liability-latest$37,517$59,672$57,336$53,229$50,927$48,579$48,055$47,892$48,787$50,071

Re-estimated reinsurance recoverables-latest11,06217,73017,81815,37113,60412,21811,16610,3169,82310,381



​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Net re-estimated liability-latest$26,455$41,942$39,518$37,858$37,323$36,361$36,889$37,576$38,964$39,690



​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy)$2,757$234$(4,125)$(6,448)$(7,167)$(6,542)$(5,474)$(3,645)$(2,566)$(817)



​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​



For
the year 2003, the table excludes reserves of SPC, which were acquired in the Merger on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims and claim
adjustment expense re-estimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for 2003 relates only to losses recorded by TPC and does not include
reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, the table includes SPC reserves acquired and subsequent development recorded on those reserves. At December 31, 2004, SPC
gross reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million. For years prior to 2013, the table excludes reserves of Dominion, which were acquired by the Company on
November 1, 2013. Accordingly, the reserve development for years prior to 2013 does not include reserve development recorded by Dominion. At December 31, 2013, Dominion's gross reserves
were $2,110 million, and net reserves were $1,779 million.

In
December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.)-based runoff insurance and reinsurance
businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the Merger.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a
result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of
$790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact
to incurred losses.







The gross and net cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by calendar year as set forth in the table above includes the following impact of unfavorable prior year
reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions:

Asbestos2003200420052006200720082009201020112012Gross$1,832$2,103$1,269$1,072$1,073$1,003$818$556$361$190Net$1,709$1,922$1,091$935$935$865$680$540$365$190Environmental2003200420052006200720082009201020112012Gross$797$773$756$648$466$381$296$251$171$72Net$745$756$726$606$421$336$266$231$155$65

Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis

At December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding
table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $17 million higher, $22 million lower and $20 million higher,
respectively, than those reported in the Company's respective annual
reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves).

The
differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items, (1) fees associated with billing of
required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty
insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting.
Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive
reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other
liabilities as contra-liabilities rather than in loss reserves.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group,
a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation."

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS

Most of the Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling
arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's policyholders' surplus rather than just on its own policyholder surplus. Under such
arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.

RATINGS

Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings
from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp.









(S&P).
Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of an insurer's ability
to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of a company's prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in
connection with the setting of interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be
revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary
widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company's overall financial
strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's website and from the agencies.

A
downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company's business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its
products may be reduced, particularly because some customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with it.

Additionally,
a downgrade in one or more of the Company's debt ratings could adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in
the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Company's debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company's revolving
credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 150 basis points, depending on the Company's debt ratings), the Company's commercial
paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the Company's revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company
considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a
one- to two-notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense
under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases.

Claims—Paying Ratings

The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers
C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Insurance Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance









Company
Limited as of February 13, 2014. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchTravelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b)A+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)Travelers C&S Co. of AmericaA+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.A- (4thof 16)——AA (3rdof 21)The Premier Insurance Company of MassachusettsA (3rdof 16)———Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd.A+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)—Travelers Insurance Company of CanadaA+ (2ndof 16)—AA- (4thof 21)—Travelers Insurance Company LimitedA (3rdof 16)—AA (3rdof 21)—

(a)

The
Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The
Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company,
The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty
Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company,
Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal
Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, The Travelers Casualty Company,
St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, Travelers Constitution State Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and
Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.

(b)

The
following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company,
Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and
Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.

Debt Ratings

The following table summarizes the current debt, trust preferred securities and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its
subsidiaries as of February 13, 2014. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchSenior debta (6thof 22)A2 (6thof 21)A (6thof 22)A (6thof 22)Subordinated debta- (7thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)A- (7thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Junior subordinated debtbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Trust preferred securitiesbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Commercial paperAMB-1 (2ndof 6)P-1 (1stof 4)A-1 (2ndof 10)F-1 (2ndof 8)

Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from March 1, 2013 (the date on which the Company
filed its Amended Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2012), through February 7, 2014:

•On May 22, 2013, S&P affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.









•On May 30, 2013, A.M. Best affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings of the Company
was revised to positive from stable (except the outlooks for The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, First Trenton Indemnity Company and First Florida Auto and Home Insurance Company, all of
which remained stable).•On June 10, 2013, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.•On October 1, 2013, A.M. Best withdrew its "A" financial strength rating and "a" issuer credit rating for
First Trenton Indemnity Company (First Trenton) as a result of First Trenton's merger into an affiliate company, The Travelers Indemnity Company, a member of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool.•On November 15, 2013, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" for Travelers Insurance
Company Limited. The outlook for this rating is stable.•On January 16, 2014, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

The
Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships and joint ventures. These
investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See
note 3 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio.









REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation

State
insurance regulation continues to evolve in response to the changing economic and business environment as well as efforts by regulators internationally to develop a consistent
approach to regulations. These changes are evidenced by the recent incorporation of supervisory colleges into the U.S. regulatory framework. A supervisory college is a forum of the regulators having
jurisdictional authority over a holding company's various insurance subsidiaries, including foreign insurance subsidiaries, convened to meet with the insurer's executive management, to evaluate the
insurer from both a group-wide and legal-entity basis. Some of the items evaluated during the colleges include the insurer's business strategies, enterprise risk management and corporate governance.

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries.TRV's principal domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
the state of
Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend from an insurance
subsidiary that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurance subsidiary's policyholders' surplus as of the preceding
December 31, or the insurance subsidiary's net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting
practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The
insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more
restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends.

Rate and Rule Approvals.TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule
approvals.
The applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition.
An insurer's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies.Several states have laws and regulations which
may impact the
timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances
insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of









business
or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non-renew certain policies only for certain specified reasons.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements.Virtually all states
require
insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRV's
domestic insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that establish second-injury funds to
provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

TRV's
domestic insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance,
property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase
that coverage in the voluntary market.

Assessments
may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan, Louisiana
Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain
involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North
Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information
concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see "Item 1A—Risk
Factors."

Insurance Regulatory Information System.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory
Information
System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year-end data. These ratios
assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio
result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in
some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory
scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios.

Based
on preliminary 2013 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company for its lead domestic insurance subsidiaries, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine
Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had
results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries.

In
2012, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their
investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities.

Management
does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2013 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior
years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required.









Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements.The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC
requirement
determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total adjusted capital
less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

The
formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital above the RBC requirement. Therefore, it is inappropriate
and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2013, all of TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC
requirement.

Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality
and
concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2013, the Company was in compliance with these laws and
regulations.

International Regulation

TRV's insurance subsidiaries based in Canada and the Canadian branch of one of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are regulated
by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act. These Canadian subsidiaries and the Canadian branch are also subject to provincial
insurance legislation which regulates pricing, underwriting, coverage and claim conduct, in varying degrees by province and by product line.

TRV's
insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by two regulatory bodies, The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
PRA's primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate
degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the UK financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. TRV's
insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are conducted through the Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which is regulated by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the Central
Bank of Ireland (as to conduct) and also by the PRA.

TRV's
managing agency (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyd's syndicate (Travelers Syndicate 5000) is also regulated by the PRA and the FCA, which have delegated
certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's. Travelers Syndicate 5000 is able to write business in over 75 jurisdictions throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international
licenses. In each such jurisdiction, the policies written by Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd., as part of Lloyd's, are subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that jurisdiction.
Travelers Underwriting Agency Limited, which as an insurance intermediary is regulated by the FCA, produces insurance business for Travelers Syndicate 5000.

A
TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. A TRV
subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. TRV has a 49.5% investment
in JMalucelli, a joint venture holding company in Brazil. JMalucelli's subsidiaries operate in the insurance and reinsurance business in Brazil and are regulated by the Superintendencia de Seguros
Privados.

Regulators
in these jurisdictions require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on, among other things, the type and amount of insurance policies in force.









Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it
is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws,
require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other
things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control.Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance
approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The
laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted to transact
business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect
to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any
transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in
which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions
and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two
of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the
Financial Services Act of 2012, including approval of the PRA and FCA. Some of TRV's other insurance
subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the
Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. JMalucelli and its subsidiaries are subject to change of control and other share transfer
restrictions and requirements in insurance laws and regulations in Brazil, mainly in Decree 73/1966 and CNSP Resolution no. 166/2007, which may include the need for prior approval of the
insurance regulator, Superintendencia de Seguros Privados.

These
requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's
shareholders.

Regulatory Developments

For a discussion of domestic and international regulatory developments, see Part I—Item 1A—Risk
Factors including "Changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results" and "New regulations outside of the U.S., including in the European
Union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth."

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the
environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations, financial









position
and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company's operations. It also requires the Company to
manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Company's stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation
and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve
both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the
Company's risk capital needs, which takes into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors.

ERM
at the Company is an integral part of its business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the board of directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves
risk-based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The
Company uses various methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with
them. These analyses and methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions as part of managing the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and
analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. The Company also utilizes proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes to evaluate capital adequacy.
These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

In
addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management and Operating Committees (comprised
of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Underwriting Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance
Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior executive oversees the ERM process. The
mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this
executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to
be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the board of directors, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Company's
insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company's ERM program.

The
Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations,
reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on value
creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system
must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the
Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in
"Item 1A—Risk Factors," "Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "Item 8—Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."









OTHER INFORMATION

Customer Concentration

In the opinion of the Company's management, no material part of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer or group of customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts for 10% or more
of the Company's consolidated revenues.

Employees

At December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately 30,800 employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are
satisfactory. None of the Company's employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

Sources of Liquidity

For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the long-term debt of the Company, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and note 8 of notes to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Taxation

For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see note 12 of notes to the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments

For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Intellectual Property

The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and
protect its intellectual property. With respect to trademarks specifically, the Company has registrations in many countries, including the United States, for material trademarks, including the
TRAVELERS name and its iconic umbrella logo. The Company intends to retain material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of all applicable
countries. The Company regards its trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing its products and services and vigorously seek to protect them against infringement. See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—Intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject
to claims for infringing on the intellectual property of others."

Recent Transactions

For information regarding recent transactions of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Company Website, Social Media and Availability of SEC Filings

The Company's Internet website iswww.travelers.com. Information on the Company's
website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available









free
of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and
any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are
electronically filed with, or furnished to,
the SEC. To access these filings, go to the Company's website, then click on "SEC Filings" under the "For Investors" heading.

From
time to time, the Company may use its website and/or social media outlets, such as Facebook and Twitter, as distribution channels of material company information. Financial and
other important information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible through the Company's website athttp://investor.travelers.com,
its Facebook page athttp://www.facebook.com/travelersand its Twitter account (@TRV_Insurance) athttp://www.twitter.com/TRV_Insurance. In addition, you
may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll
your email address by visiting the "Email Alert Service" section athttp://investor.travelers.com.

Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms



Accident yearThe annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.

Adjusted unassigned surplusUnassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year's
unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.

Admitted insurerA company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.

AgentA licensed individual who sells and services insurance policies, receiving a commission from the insurer for
selling the business and a fee for servicing it. An independent agent represents multiple insurance companies and searches the market for the best product for its client.

AnnuityA contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or
more persons or for a specified period of time.

Assigned risk poolsReinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their
direct writings.

Assumed reinsuranceInsurance risks acquired from a ceding company.

Average value analysisA conventional actuarial method used to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an
accident year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.











The basic premise of the method is that average claim values are stable and predictable over time for a particular cohort of
claims. The method is utilized most often where ultimate claim counts are known or reliably estimable fairly early after the start of an accident year and average values are expected to be fairly predictable from one year to the next.

The method comes up with an estimate of ultimate claims counts by accident year cohort, and multiplies it by an
estimate of average claim value by accident year cohort, with multiple methods used to estimate these average claim values.

Book value per shareTotal common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.

Bornhuetter-Ferguson methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the outstanding losses.

The basic premise of the method is that the historical ratio of additional claim activity to earned premium for
a given product line component/age-to-age period is stable and predictable. It implicitly assumes that the actual activity to date for past periods for that cohort is not a credible predictor of future activity for that cohort, or at least is not
credible enough to override the "a priori" assumption as to future activity. It may be applied to either paid or case incurred claim data. It is used most often where the claim data is sparse and/or volatile and for relatively young cohorts with low
volumes and/or data credibility.

To illustrate, the method may assume that the ratio of additional paid losses from the 12 to 24 month
period for an accident year is 10% of the original "a priori" expected losses for that accident year. The original "a priori" expected losses are typically based on the original loss ratio assumption for that accident year, with subsequent adjustment
as facts develop.

The ultimate losses equal actual activity to date plus the expected values for future periods.

BrokerOne who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission
from the insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.

CapacityThe percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to
place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.

CaptiveA closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company's owners
or their affiliates.











Case-incurred development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line
component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method," but based
on the growth in cumulative case-incurred losses (i.e., the sum of claim-adjustor incurred estimates for claims in the cohort) rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative case incurred losses for a given cohort of
claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort.

Case reservesClaim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported
claim.

Casualty insuranceInsurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the
insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers' liability, workers' compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance.
It excludes certain types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.

CatastropheA severe loss, resulting from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other
windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. Catastrophes can also result from a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events),
explosions, infrastructure failures or as a consequence of political instability. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount. Their effects are included in net and operating income and
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.

Catastrophe lossLoss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes, and related reinsurance reinstatement
premiums.

Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess-of-loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a "catastrophe cover." These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to
cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers' compensation policies.











Cede; ceding companyWhen an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a "cession," it "cedes" business and is referred to as the
"ceding company."

Ceded reinsuranceInsurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

ClaimRequest by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured
peril.

Claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss" and "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expense reservesSee "Loss reserves."

CohortA group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example,
all claims for a given product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.

Combined ratio (SAP and GAAP)For SAP, it is the sum of the SAP loss and LAE ratio and the SAP underwriting expense ratio as defined in the
statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The GAAP combined ratio is the equivalent of, and is calculated in the same manner as, the SAP combined ratio except that the SAP underwriting expense ratio is based on netwrittenpremium and the GAAP underwriting expense ratio is based on netearnedpremiums.

The GAAP combined ratio as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an indicator of the Company's
underwriting discipline, efficiency in acquiring and servicing its business and overall underwriting profitability. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting
loss.

Commercial multi-peril policiesRefers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.

Commutation agreementAn agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in
exchange for a complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.

Debt-to-total capital ratioThe ratio of debt to total capitalization.

Debt-to-total capital ratioexcluding net unrealized gain(loss) on investmentsThe ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and
losses.

DeductibleThe amount of loss that an insured retains.











Deferred acquisition costsPrimarily commissions and premium-related taxes that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of new contracts
and are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).

DeficiencyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are insufficient to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as
new information becomes available.

Demand surgeSignificant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for
those materials and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.

Direct written premiumsThe amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of
an insurance contract. The amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded.

Earned premiums or premiums earnedThat portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term.
Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP) and GAAP.

Excess and surplus lines insuranceInsurance for risks not covered by standard insurance due to the unique nature of the risk. Risks could be
placed in excess and surplus lines markets due to any number of characteristics, such as loss experience, unique or unusual exposures, or insufficient experience in business. Excess and surplus lines are less regulated by the states, allowing greater
flexibility to design specific insurance coverage and negotiate pricing based on the risks to be secured.

Excess liabilityAdditional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.

Excess-of-loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar
amount or "retention."

ExposureThe measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product. The change in exposure is the amount of change
in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.

Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is
separately negotiated.











Fair Access to InsuranceRequirements (FAIR) PlanA residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through the regular
(voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see "residual market (involuntary business)."

Fidelity and surety programsFidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee. Surety is a three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.

GAAP combined ratio excludingincremental impact of directto consumer initiativeThe GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the Company's direct-to-consumer
initiative in the Personal Insurance segment.

Gross written premiumsThe direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of
the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.

Ground-up analysisA method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line
component. It involves analyzing the exposure and claim activity at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses
for the cohort are then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.

In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the
larger insureds, with the costs for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured
analysis).

Guaranteed cost productsAn insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the
covered period.

Guaranty fundA state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should
insolvencies occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer's obligations to policyholders.

Holding company liquidityTotal cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding
company.

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reservesReserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes
amounts for unreported claims, development on known cases, and re-opened claims.











Inland marineA broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well as bridges,
tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and
others.

IRIS ratiosFinancial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies.

Large deductible policyAn insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is
responsible for paying the entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.

Lloyd'sAn insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks,
deal with Lloyd's underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.

LossAn occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or
excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.

Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to
claim settlement costs.

Loss and LAE ratio (SAP and GAAP)For SAP, it is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses less certain administrative services
fee income to net earned premiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The GAAP ratio is calculated in the same manner as the SAP ratio.

The GAAP loss and LAE ratio as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an indicator of the Company's
underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability.

Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the
insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document,
"loss reserves" is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.

Loss reserve developmentThe increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.











Losses incurredThe total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred losses include a
provision for IBNR.

National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the
five U.S. territories organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.

Net written premiumsDirect written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.

New business volumeThe amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing
policyholders.

Operating income (loss)Net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued
operations and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable.

Operating income (loss) per shareOperating income (loss) on a per share basis.

Operating return on equityThe ratio of operating income to average equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses and
discontinued operations, net of tax.

Paid development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that cumulative paid losses for a given cohort of claims will grow in a
stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort. These age-to-age growth factors are sometimes called "link ratios."

For example, if cumulative paid losses for a product line XYZ for accident year 2004 were $100 as of
December 31, 2004 (12 months after the start of that accident year), then grew to $120 as of December 31, 2005 (24 months after the start), the link ratio for that accident year from 12 to 24 months would be 1.20. If the link
ratio for other recent accident years from 12 to 24 months for that product line were also at or around 1.20, then the method would assume a similar result for the most recent accident year, i.e., that it too would have its cumulative paid
losses grow 120% from the 12 month to 24 month valuation.

This is repeated for each age-to-age period into the future until the age-to-age link ratios for future periods
are assumed to be 1.0 (i.e., the age at which cumulative losses are assumed to have stopped growing).











A given accident year's cumulative losses are then projected to ultimate by multiplying current cumulative losses by successive
age-to-age link ratios up to that future age where growth is expected to end. For example, if growth is expected to end at 60 months, then the ultimate indication for an accident year with cumulative losses at 12 months equals those losses
times a 12 to 24 month link ratio, times a 24 to 36 month link ratio, times a 36 to 48 month link ratio, times a 48 to 60 month link ratio.

Advanced applications of the method include adjustments for changing conditions during the historical period and
anticipated changes in the future.

Policyholders' surplusAs determined under SAP, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted
from all admitted assets. Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Policyholders' surplus is also referred to as "surplus" or "statutory surplus" for statutory
accounting purposes.

PoolAn organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums,
 losses and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.

PremiumsThe amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance
company.

Property insuranceInsurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for
that person's or business's property loss, damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsuranceReinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for
each policy covered on a pro rata basis.

RatesAmounts charged per unit of insurance.

RedundancyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy
exists) may change as new information becomes available.

Reinstatement premiumsAdditional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of
reinsured losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.

ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer,
agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreementA contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.











Renewal premium changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes. Such statistics are subject
to change based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.

Renewal rate changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes. Such statistics are
subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.

Reported claim development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate claim counts for a given cohort of claims such as an
accident year/product line component. If the reported-to-date counts are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate counts, the result is an indication of the IBNR counts.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method", but based
on the growth in cumulative claim counts rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative claim counts for a given cohort of claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the
cohort.

Residual market (involuntary business)Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary
market. Possible reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of
available coverage such as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers' compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in
proportion to the carriers' voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.

RetentionThe amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to
an insurance policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.

Retention rateThe percentage of prior period premiums (excluding renewal premium changes), accounts or policies available for
renewal in the current period that were renewed. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.

Retrospective premiumsPremiums related to retrospectively rated policies.

Retrospective ratingA plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss
experience, subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.











Return on equityThe ratio of net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity.

Risk-based capital (RBC)A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory policyholders' surplus
requirements of insurers. Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

Risk retention groupAn alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self
insure their risks.

Runoff businessAn operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a
cessation of writing new business, where allowed by law.

SalvageThe amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a
loss payment.

S-curve methodA mathematical function which depicts an initial slow change, followed by a rapid change and then ending in a
slow change again. This results in an "S" shaped line when depicted graphically. The actuarial application of these curves fit the reported data to date for a particular cohort of claims to an S-curve to project future activity for that
cohort.

Second-injury fundThe employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers' compensation benefit for the
most recent injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and
self-insureds based on either premiums or losses.

Self-insured retentionsThat portion of the risk retained by a person for its own account.

Servicing carrierAn insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and
customer service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.

Statutory accounting practices (SAP)The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in
the United States for recording transactions and preparing financial statements. Statutory accounting practices generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.

Statutory basis surplusThe excess of an insurance company's assets over its liabilities in accordance with the statutory accounting
practices required by state laws and regulations.

Structured settlementsPeriodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in
settlement of a claim under a liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.











SubrogationA principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim under a policy,
to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.

Third-party liabilityA liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract.
Insured liability claims are referred to as third-party claims.

Total capitalizationThe sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.

Treaty reinsuranceThe reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a "treaty") between
a primary insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks
originally written by the primary insurer or reinsured.

Umbrella coverageA form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies
or amounts not covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned surplusThe undistributed and unappropriated amount of policyholders' surplus.

Underlying GAAP combined ratioThe sum of the underlying GAAP loss and LAE ratio and the underlying GAAP underwriting expense ratio. The
underlying GAAP combined ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying GAAP loss and LAE ratioThe GAAP loss and LAE ratio, excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development. The
underlying GAAP loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying GAAP underwriting expense ratioThe GAAP underwriting expense ratio, excluding the impact of catastrophe losses.

Underlying underwriting marginNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses (excluding catastrophe losses and
prior year reserve development) and insurance-related expenses.

UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in
order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.











UnderwritingThe insurer's or reinsurer's process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to whether to accept
all or part of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.

Underwriting expense ratio (SAP and GAAP)For SAP, it is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred (including commissions paid), less certain
administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to netwrittenpremiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. For GAAP, it is the ratio of
underwriting expenses (including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs), less certain administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to netearnedpremiums.

The GAAP underwriting expense ratio as used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an indicator of the
Company' s efficiency in acquiring and servicing its business.

Underwriting gain or lossNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related
expenses.

Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.

Voluntary marketThe market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market
mechanisms.

Wholesale brokerAn independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and nonadmitted insurers in market areas, which
include standard, non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker.

Workers' compensationA system (established under state and federal laws) under which employers provide insurance for benefit payments
to their employees for work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault.









