Item 1.    BUSINESS

The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally
engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and
individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the state of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back
to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also
maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut,
and St. Paul, Minnesota. The term "TRV" in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

For
a summary of the Company's revenues, operating income and total assets by reportable business segments, see note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent
relationships and method of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of independent agents, exclusive agents, direct marketing (including use of toll-free numbers and the
internet) and/or salaried employees. According to A.M. Best, there are approximately 981 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,400 property and casualty
companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 92% of the consolidated industry's total net written premiums in 2009. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers.
In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional
insurance products. These products include large deductible programs, and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The
Company's competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including the following:

•premiums charged;•contract terms and conditions;•products and services offered;•claim service;•agent, broker and client relationships;•local presence;•geographic scope of business;•overall financial strength;•ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•experience and qualifications of employees; and•technology and information systems.

In
addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by policyholders' surplus, and the availability of reinsurance. Industry capacity as
measured by surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Capital
raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase a company's surplus.









Pricing and Underwriting

Pricing of the Company's property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses,
the expenses of producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money associated with such loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable allowance for profit. The
Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes profitable growth rather than premium volume or market share. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The applicable state laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not
excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price competition. The Company's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each
respective state's requirements, as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2010:

State% ofTotalCalifornia9.7%New York9.7Texas7.3Pennsylvania5.1Florida4.3New Jersey3.9Illinois3.8Massachusetts3.6Georgia3.2All other domestic(1)43.8Total domestic94.4International5.6Consolidated total100.0%

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2010 by the Company's domestic operations.

Catastrophe Exposure

The wide geographic distribution of the Company's property and casualty insurance operations exposes it to claims arising out of
catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to continually monitor and analyze underwriting risks of business in natural
catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorism, which excludes nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events. The Company relies, in part, upon this analysis to make
underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. The Company limits the writing of new property and homeowners business, and each of the Company's reportable
business segments have selectively taken underwriting action on existing business in some markets. In addition, in recent years, each segment has also tightened underwriting standards, implemented
price increases in some catastrophe-prone areas and put in place deductibles specific to hurricane-, wind- and hail-prone areas. See "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of











Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions." The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures
to catastrophes. See "—Reinsurance."

The
Company is organized into three reportable business segments: Business Insurance; Financial, Professional & International Insurance; and Personal Insurance.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients
primarily in the United States. Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations:

•

Select Accountsprovides small businesses with property and casualty
products, including commercial multi-peril, property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

Commercial Accountsprovides mid-sized businesses with
property and casualty products, including property, general liability, commercial multi-peril, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

National Accountsprovides large companies with casualty products and
services, including workers' compensation, general liability and automobile liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products. Within National Accounts, Discover Re provides those
same casualty products, as well as property coverages, on an unbundled basis. In addition, National Accounts includes the Company's commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers'
compensation products and services to the involuntary market.

•

Industry-Focused Underwriting.

The following units provide
targeted industries with differentiated combinations of insurance coverage, risk management, claims handling and other services:



•

Constructionserves a broad range of construction businesses, offering
guaranteed cost products for small to mid-sized policyholders and loss-sensitive programs for larger accounts. For the larger accounts, the customer and the Company work
together in actively managing and controlling exposure and claims, and they share risk through policy features such as deductibles or retrospective rating. Products offered include workers'
compensation, general liability, umbrella and commercial auto coverages, and other risk management solutions.

•

Technologyserves small to large companies involved in telecommunications,
information technology, medical technology and electronics manufacturing, offering a comprehensive portfolio of products and services. These products include property, commercial auto, general
liability, workers' compensation, umbrella, internet liability, technology errors and omissions coverages and global companion products.

•

Public Sector Servicesprovides insurance products and services to public
entities including municipalities, counties, Indian Nation gaming organizations and selected special government districts such as water and sewer utilities. The policies written by this unit typically
cover property, commercial auto, general liability and errors and omissions exposures.

•

Oil & Gasprovides specialized property and liability products and
services for customers involved in the exploration and production of oil and natural gas, including operators and drilling contractors, as well as various service and supply companies and
manufacturers that support upstream operations. The policies written by this business group cover risks including physical damage, liability and business interruption.









•Agribusinessserves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses,
including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations, offering property and liability coverages other than workers' compensation.

•

Target Risk Underwriting.

The following units serve
commercial businesses requiring specialized product underwriting, claims handling and risk management services:



•

National Propertyprovides traditional and customized property insurance
programs to large and mid-sized customers, including office building owners, manufacturers, municipalities and schools, retailers and service businesses. These insurance programs cover
losses on buildings, business personal property and business interruption exposures.

•

Inland Marineprovides insurance for goods in transit and movable objects
for customers such as jewelers, museums, contractors and the transportation industry. Builders' risk insurance is also offered to customers during the construction, renovation or repair of buildings
and other structures.

•

Ocean Marineserves the marine transportation industry and related
services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade. The Company's product offerings in this unit fall under six main coverage categories: marine liability, cargo, hull and
machinery, protection and indemnity, pleasure craft, and marine property and liability.

•

Excess Casualtyserves small to mid-sized commercial
businesses, offering mono-line umbrella and excess coverage where the Company typically does not write the primary casualty coverage, or where other business units within the Company
prefer to access the underwriting expertise and/or limit capacity of the Excess Casualty business unit.

•

Boiler & Machineryserves small to large companies, offering
comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages. Through the BoilerRe unit, Boiler & Machinery also serves other property and casualty
carriers that do not have in-house expertise with reinsurance, underwriting, engineering, claim handling and risk management services for this type of coverage.

•

Global Accountsprovides insurance to U.S. companies with foreign property
and liability exposures (home-foreign) and foreign organizations with property and liability exposures located in the United States (reverse-flow), as part of a global program.

•

Specialized Distribution.The following units market and
underwrite their products to customers predominantly through licensed wholesale, general and program agents that manage customers' unique insurance requirements:•Northlandprovides insurance coverage for the commercial transportation
industry, as well as commercial liability and package policies for small, difficult to place specialty classes of commercial business on an admitted or excess and surplus lines basis.•National Programsoffers tailored property and casualty programs on an
admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements. Programs available include those for entertainment, architects and engineers, equipment rental, golf services
and owners of franchised businesses.

Business
Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain international
and other runoff operations, which are collectively referred to as Business Insurance Other. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which
comprised its United Kingdom-based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. The sale was not material to the Company's results of operations or financial position.









Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Business Insurance net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201020092008% of Total2010By market:Select Accounts$2,718$2,756$2,75625.1%Commercial Accounts2,5762,4932,52423.7National Accounts8069029967.4Industry-Focused Underwriting2,2992,2792,39621.2Target Risk Underwriting1,5731,5681,59314.5Specialized Distribution8728899398.0Total Business Insurance Core10,84410,88711,20499.9Business Insurance Other1315160.1Total Business Insurance by market$10,857$10,902$11,220100.0%By product line:Workers' compensation$2,586$2,486$2,45223.8%Commercial automobile1,9101,9271,95217.6Property1,6411,7271,86015.1General liability1,7261,8292,01115.9Commercial multi-peril2,9952,9332,93827.6Other(1)—7—Total Business Insurance by product line$10,857$10,902$11,220100.0%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Business Insurance distributes its products through approximately 10,500 independent agencies and brokers located throughout the United
States that are serviced by approximately 120 field offices and three customer service centers. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology utilizing
internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with independent agencies and brokers. Business Insurance builds relationships with well-established,
independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or
broker's profitability, financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully
monitors its performance. The majority of products offered by the Select Accounts, Commercial Accounts, Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target-Risk Underwriting groups are distributed
through a common base of independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance products. Additionally, the Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting
groups may underwrite business with agents that specialize in servicing the needs of certain of the industries served by these groups.

Select Accountsis a leading provider of property and casualty insurance products to small businesses, generally with fewer than 50
employees. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is
independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of small business risks at their desktop. Risks with more
complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel.











The
automated underwriting platform has significantly streamlined the agent desktop underwriting process, and as a result, it has allowed the Company to expand the number of distributors affiliated
with Select Accounts.

Commercial Accountssells a broad range of property and casualty insurance products through a large network of independent agents and
brokers, primarily targeting mid-sized businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees. The Company offers a full line of products to its Commercial Accounts customers with an emphasis on guaranteed
cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Commercial
Accounts to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base.

National Accountssells a variety of casualty products and services to large companies through a network of national and regional brokers,
primarily utilizing loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a retrospectively rated or a guaranteed cost
insurance policy. Discover Re provides property and casualty products and services through retail brokers on an unbundled basis, using third-party administrators for insureds who utilize programs such
as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. National Accounts provides insurance-related services, such as risk management services, claims administration, loss
control and risk management information services, either in addition to, or in lieu of, pure risk coverage and generated $182 million of fee income in 2010, excluding commercial residual market
business. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts sells claims and policy management services to workers' compensation pools throughout the United States, and generated
$65 million in fee income in 2010.

Workers'
compensation accounted for approximately 76% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2010, based on direct written premiums and fees.

Industry-Focused Underwritingmarkets property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of agents and brokers.
These products and services are tailored to targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other insurance-related products
and services.

Target Risk Underwritingmarkets property and casualty insurance products and services through a large network of agents and brokers to a
wide customer base having specialized property and casualty coverage requirements.

Specialized Distributiondistributes admitted and excess and surplus lines property and casualty products predominantly through selected
wholesale agents, both on a brokerage and managing general underwriting basis, and through selected program agents. Brokers, general agents and program agents operate in certain markets that are not
typically served by the Company's appointed retail agents, or they maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is
characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with wholesale or program agents on a brokerage basis,
Specialized Distribution underwrites the business and sets the premium level. In working with wholesale or program agents on a managing general underwriting or program manager basis, the agents
produce and underwrite business subject to underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.

Pricing and Underwriting

Business Insurance has developed an underwriting and pricing methodology that incorporates underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial
and product development disciplines for particular industries. This approach is designed to maintain high-quality underwriting and pricing discipline. It utilizes proprietary data gathered
and analyzed with respect to its Business Insurance business over many years. The underwriters and engineers use this information to assess and evaluate risks prior to quotation. This information
provides specialized knowledge about specific industry segments. This











methodology
enables Business Insurance to streamline its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters.

For
smaller businesses meeting pre-determined exposure characteristics and thresholds, Select Accounts utilizes an automated underwriting system that enables agents to issue
a significant number of policies at their desktop.

Product Lines

Workers' Compensationprovides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable
under state or federal law for workplace injuries to employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death
benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that
focuses on the injured employee's early return to work and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers' compensation products:

•guaranteed-cost insurance products, in which policy premium charges are fixed for the period of coverage and
do not vary as a result of the insured's loss experience;•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which
fees or premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees
rather than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements.

The
Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.

Commercial Automobileprovides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third
parties, property damage to an insured's vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.

Propertyprovides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from a variety of events, including, among others,
hurricanes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail,











wildfires,
severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. For
additional information on terrorism coverages, see "Reinsurance—Catastrophe Reinsurance—Terrorism Risk Insurance Acts." Property also includes specialized equipment insurance,
which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and
unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

General Liabilitycoverage insures businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out
of their operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products sold. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in their
official capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions
insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

Commercial Multi-Perilprovides a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line
descriptions.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Business Insurance segment as of January 1,
2011. For third-party liability, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $18.8 million per insured, per occurrence after the
Company retains an aggregate layer of expected
losses. The net retained amount per risk for property exposures is generally limited to $17.0 million, after reinsurance. The Company generally retains its workers' compensation exposures.
Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. The Company utilizes facultative
reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual
characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2010:

State% ofTotalCalifornia13.2%New York7.8Texas7.5Illinois4.6Florida4.3Pennsylvania4.2New Jersey3.6Massachusetts3.5All others(1)51.3Total100.0%

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2010 by the Business Insurance segment.







Competition

The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other
entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for
insurance products and the levels of coverage and service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to provide insurance and
services, including claims handling and risk control services, at a price and on terms that are reasonable and acceptable to the customer, as well as its ability to retain existing customers and to
attract new customers.

Select
Accounts business is typically written through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers and direct writers. Both national and regional property and casualty
insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower-hazard, "Main Street" business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry practices
and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on product offerings, service levels, ease of doing business and price. Select
Accounts has established a strong marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies, a broad array of products, competitive prices
and a highly
efficient, automated platform that significantly reduces the time period between quoting a price on a policy and issuing that policy. In addition, the Company has established centralized service
centers to help agents perform many service functions, in return for a fee.

In
recent years, many independent personal insurance agents have begun to utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a
cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Comparative raters also tend to put additional focus on price over other competitive criteria. The Company believes that
there is the potential for similar technology to be used to access comparative rates for small commercial business.

Commercial
Accounts business has historically been principally written through independent agents and brokers. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty
insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price
and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and rapid response time to customer needs is one key to success in this market.

In
the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems
and collateral requirements. National Accounts competes with national property and casualty insurance companies. In addition, Discover Re competes with those same insurance companies, as well as with
other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as risk retention groups, self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a
variety of other risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market group competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services. National Accounts services
approximately 31% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry.

There
are several other business groups in Business Insurance that compete in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry
knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, and partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these business groups compete
with national carriers with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Each of these business groups has regional structures that
allow them to deliver personalized service and local knowledge to their customer base. Specialized agents and











brokers,
including managing general agents and wholesale agents, supplement this strategy. In all of these business groups, the competitive strategy typically is market leadership attained through
focused industry knowledge applied to insurance and risk needs.

FINANCIAL, PROFESSIONAL & INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE

The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and financial liability coverages, which primarily
use credit-based underwriting processes, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, and on an
international basis as a corporate member of Lloyd's. The segment includes the following groups:

•

Bond & Financial Productsprovides a wide range of customers with
bond and insurance products and risk management services. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general commercial
enterprises; management liability coverages for losses caused by the actual or alleged negligence or misconduct of directors and officers or employee dishonesty; employment practices liability
coverages and fiduciary coverages for public corporations, private companies and not-for-profit organizations; professional liability coverage for actual or alleged errors and
omissions committed in the course of professional conduct or practice for a variety of professionals including, among others, lawyers, design professionals and real estate agents; and professional and
management liability, property, auto and general liability and fidelity insurance for financial institutions.

•

International,through its operations in the United Kingdom, Canada and
the Republic of Ireland, offers specialized insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, public services, and financial and
professional services industry sectors. In addition, in the Republic of Ireland, the Company writes personal automobile coverage. International, through its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for
which the Company provides 100% of the capital, underwrites through five principal business units—marine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and
aviation.

On
November 3, 2010, an indirect subsidiary of the Company entered into a definitive agreement to commence a joint venture with J. Malucelli
Participações em Seguros e Resseguros S.A, a Brazilian company ("J. Malucelli"), through the acquisition of approximately 43% of J. Malucelli's common stock. J. Malucelli
is currently the market leader in surety in Brazil based on market share, and the acquisition provides a platform for potentially expanding its business into the Brazilian property and casualty
market. The purchase price for this acquisition will be R$625 million Brazilian Reais (the U.S. dollar equivalent of which will depend on the exchange rate at closing) plus an amount based on a
Brazilian inter-bank lending rate (CDI) from January 1, 2011 through the closing date of the transaction. At December 31, 2010, R$625 million Brazilian Reais was
equivalent to approximately $377 million in U.S. dollars. The Company also has an option to increase its interest up to 49.9% of the common stock of J. Malucelli within 18 months. The
purchase price is expected to be paid in cash from internal sources. The joint venture transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and is expected to be finalized in the first half of 2011.

Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums by market and product line
for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and











product
lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201020092008% of Total2010By market:Bond & Financial Products$1,981$2,040$2,12661.7%International1,2301,2451,34238.3Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by market$3,211$3,285$3,468100.0%By product line:Fidelity and surety$995$1,000$1,07031.0%General liability85290692126.5International1,2301,2451,34238.3Other1341341354.2Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by product line$3,211$3,285$3,468100.0%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Within the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, Bond & Financial Products distributes the vast
majority of its products in the United States through approximately 6,100 of the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute the Business Insurance segment's products. These brokers and
independent agencies are located throughout the United States. Bond & Financial Products, in conjunction with the Business Insurance segment, continues to make investments in enhanced
technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers. Bond & Financial Products builds
relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Financial
Products considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an
agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely monitored. In addition, Bond & Financial Products sells its surety products through independent brokers in the United Kingdom.

The
International market distributes its products principally through brokers in the domestic markets of each of the countries in which it operates. It also writes business at Lloyd's,
where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses, Financial, Professional & International Insurance has access to
international markets across the world. In late 2008, the Company commenced an exclusive relationship with a broker in the Republic of Ireland that significantly increased the 2009 volume of personal
automobile coverage written and also resulted in the Company writing personal household coverages. The Company ceased writing business through this relationship in the fourth quarter of 2010.

Pricing and Underwriting

Financial, Professional & International Insurance has developed underwriting and pricing methodologies that incorporate
dedicated underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting and pricing discipline, based on an
in-depth knowledge of the specific account, industry or country. Underwriters use industry and proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years to assess and evaluate risks prior to
quotation, and then use proprietary forms (for non-Lloyd's and non-surety markets) to tailor











insurance
coverage to insureds within target markets. This methodology enables Financial, Professional & International Insurance to streamline its risk selection process and develop pricing
parameters.

Product Lines

Fidelity and Suretyprovides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for
loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in
response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured. Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other
performance bonds.

General Liabilityprovides coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the "Business Insurance"
section of this report.

Internationalprovides coverage for employers' liability (similar to workers' compensation coverage in the United States), public and
product liability (the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), motor (similar to automobile coverage in the United States), property,
surety, marine, aviation, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, offshore energy, ports and
terminals, fine art and terrorism. Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space
risks. Personal accident provides financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap,
hijack, illegal detention and extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms
potentially very different from those the Company faces in the United States.

Othercoverages include Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in
more detail in the "Business Insurance" section of this report. Other coverages also include personal automobile and household coverages.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Financial, Professional & International
Insurance segment as of January 1, 2011. In the U.S. operations for third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers'
liability, and employment practices liability, Financial, Professional & International Insurance generally limits net retentions, through the use of reinsurance, to up to $16.2 million
per policy after the Company retains an aggregate layer of expected losses. For surety protection, where insured limits are often significant, the Company generally retains up to $55.0 million
probable maximum loss (PML) per principal but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation, credit quality and other credit risk factors. In the International operations,
per-risk retentions are usually limited to $16.0 million, after reinsurance. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk
retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The
Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.







Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Financial, Professional & International's direct written premiums for
the states that accounted for the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2010:

State% ofTotalCalifornia6.0%New York5.1Texas4.8Florida3.1Illinois3.1All other domestic(1)40.1Total domestic62.2Total international37.8Total100.0%

(1)No
other single state within the United States accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2010 by the domestic operations of
the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment.

Competition

The competitive landscape in which Bond & Financial Products operates is affected by many of the same factors described
previously for the Business Insurance segment. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional
products and pricing and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.

Bond &
Financial Products underwrites and markets its products to national, mid-sized and small businesses and organizations, as well as individuals, and distributes
them through both national and wholesale brokers, regional brokers and retail agents. Its reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and
industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Financial Products an advantage over
many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The ability of Bond & Financial Products to cross-sell its products to customers of
the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments provides additional competitive advantages for the Company.

International
competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland. Companies compete on the basis of price, product
offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and
provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets. Products are generally distributed through a relatively small agent and broker base whose customer groups align with the Company's
targeted markets.

At
Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd's operation
writes business worldwide. Competition is again based on price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite effectively and profitably with an emphasis on
short-tail insurance lines.









PERSONAL INSURANCE

Personal Insurance writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks. The primary coverages in Personal
Insurance are automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals. These products are distributed through independent agents, sponsoring organizations such as employee and affinity groups, joint
marketing arrangements with other insurers, and direct marketing.

Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information

The following table sets forth net written premiums for the Personal Insurance segment's business by product line for the periods
indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution"
for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201020092008% of Total2010By product line:Automobile$3,772$3,629$3,66049.8%Homeowners and Other3,7953,5203,33550.2Total Personal Insurance$7,567$7,149$6,995100.0%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Personal Insurance products are distributed primarily through approximately 12,400 independent agents located throughout the United
States, supported by personnel in 16 marketing regions and seven service centers. In selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other
attributes, each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with Personal Insurance's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal
Insurance carefully monitors its performance. While the principal markets for Personal Insurance's insurance products continue to be in states along the East Coast, California and Texas, Personal
Insurance continues to expand its geographic presence across the United States.

Personal
Insurance uses a consistent operating model that provides technological alternatives to independent agents to maximize their ease of doing business. Personal Insurance
independent agents quote and issue nearly all of Personal Insurance's new business policies directly from their agencies by leveraging either their own agency management system or using Personal
Insurance's proprietary quote and issuance systems which allow agents to rate, quote and issue policies on line. All of these quote and issue platforms interface with Personal Insurance's underwriting
and rating systems, which monitor
transactions for compliance with Personal Insurance's underwriting and pricing programs. Business processed by agents on these platforms is subject to consultative review by Personal Insurance's
in-house underwriters.

Personal
Insurance continues to develop functionality to provide its agents with online service capabilities packaged together in an agency service portal, including customer service,
marketing and claim functionality. Agencies can also choose to shift the ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's four Customer Care Centers, where the
Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of direct customer service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately 1,950 agents
take advantage of this service alternative.

Personal
Insurance also markets through additional distribution channels, including sponsoring organizations such as employers and consumer associations, and direct marketing. Personal
Insurance











handles
the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or through two of the Company's call center locations. A number of well-known corporations
make the Company's product offerings available to their employees primarily through a payroll deduction payment process. The Company has significant relationships with the majority of the American
Automobile Association (AAA) clubs in the United States and other affinity groups that make available Personal Insurance's product offerings to their members. In addition, since 1995, the Company has
had a marketing agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for their auto customers. This agreement has added profitable business and helped to geographically diversify the homeowners line
of business. In 2009, the Company announced that it had launched a new distribution channel marketing insurance directly to consumers. The investment in the direct to consumer initiative generated
modest growth in premium volume for Personal Insurance in 2009 and 2010, which was consistent with the Company's expectations. In addition, the direct to consumer initiative, while intended to enhance
the Company's long-term ability to compete successfully in a consumer-driven marketplace, is expected to remain unprofitable for a number of years as this business grows and matures.

Pricing and Underwriting

Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claim, actuarial and
product development. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary data accumulated over many years is analyzed with respect to
Personal Insurance's business. Personal Insurance uses a variety of proprietary and vendor produced risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation. Personal Insurance's product
managers establish underwriting guidelines
integrated with its filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

Pricing
for personal automobile insurance is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of automobile repairs, medical care and litigation of
liability claims. As a result, the profitability of the business is largely dependent on promptly identifying and responding to disparities between premium levels and projected claim costs, and
obtaining approval from state regulatory authorities when necessary for filed rate changes.

Pricing
in the homeowners business is also driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of building supplies, labor and household possessions.
In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of homeowners insurance is affected by the incidence of natural disasters, particularly those
related to weather and earthquakes. Changes to methods of marketing and underwriting in some jurisdictions are subject to state-imposed restrictions, which can make it more difficult for an insurer to
significantly manage catastrophe exposures.

Insurers
writing personal lines property and casualty policies may be unable to increase prices until some time after the costs associated with coverage have increased, primarily because
of state insurance rate regulation. The pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to increased costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable state law requires prior approval of rate
increases or notification to the regulator either before or after a rate change is imposed. In states with prior approval laws, rates must be approved by the regulator before being used by the
insurer. In states having "file-and-use" laws, the insurer must file rate changes with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using the new rates. A
"use-and-file" law requires an insurer to file rates within a period of time after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of the states
require prior approval of most rate changes. The Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to
considerations of public policy, the evolving political environment, changes in the general economic climate and/or social responsibilities.











The
Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other underwriting opportunities.

Independent
agents either utilize one of the Company's automated quote and issue systems or they submit applications to the Company's service centers for underwriting review, quote, and
issuance. Automated transactions are edited by the Company's systems and issued if they conform to established guidelines. Exceptions are reviewed by underwriters in the Company's business centers.
Audits are conducted by an internal peer review team across all of the Company's independent agency generated business on a systematic sampling basis. Each agent is assigned to a specific employee or
team of employees responsible for working with the agent on business plan development, marketing, and overall
growth and profitability. The Company uses agency level management information to analyze and understand results and to identify issues and opportunities.

The
Personal Insurance products sold through additional marketing channels utilize the same issuance systems discussed previously, and any exceptions are also underwritten by the
Company's employees. Business derived through these channels is marketed by external personnel, who work with Company management on business plan development, marketing and overall growth and
profitability. Channel-specific production and claim information is used to analyze results and identify problems and opportunities.

Product Lines

The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals. Personal Insurance
had approximately 7.7 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) at December 31, 2010.

Personal Automobileprovides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage and for physical damage to an
insured's own vehicle from collision and various other perils. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as
no-fault coverage.

Homeowners and Otherprovides protection against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils (excluding flooding) as
well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and rental property contents. The Company also writes coverage for boats and yachts,
personal articles such as jewelry, and umbrella liability protection.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Personal Insurance segment as of January 1,
2011. The Company generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is a $7.0 million maximum retention per risk. Personal
Insurance retains the first $10.0 million of umbrella policies and purchases facultative reinsurance for limits over $10.0 million. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to
provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual
characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2010:

State% ofTotalNew York14.4%Texas(1)8.2Pennsylvania7.5California6.2New Jersey5.1Florida5.0Georgia4.5Connecticut4.4Massachusetts4.3Virginia4.1Maryland3.3Illinois3.0All others(2)30.0Total100.0%

(1)The
percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer.(2)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2010 by the Personal Insurance segment.

Competition









CLAIMS MANAGEMENT

The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services operation, with locations in the United States and in the
countries where it does business. With more than 14,000 employees, Claims Services employs a diverse group of professionals, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys, investigators, engineers,
accountants, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as independent adjusters and appraisers, investigators and attorneys, are
available for use as appropriate.

U.S.
field claim management teams located in 26 claim centers and 55 satellite and specialty-only offices in 46 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim
characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company's business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, resources, and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of those businesses,
with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow design, quality
management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits the Company to
maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims management for
International is generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, although it is also managed by the Company's
U.S. Claims Services organization to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An
integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative
Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts that investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This
staff also has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are
reported to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.

Claims
Services uses advanced technology, management information, and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results to evaluate and improve its claims
management performance. The Company's claims management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company
continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a
state-of-the-art claims training facility, offering hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In
recent years, the Company has invested significant additional resources in many of its claim handling operations and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent
optimization among outcomes, cost and service.

In
recent years, Claims Services refined its catastrophe response strategy to increase the Company's ability to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel,
enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjustors and appraisers. The Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing
employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these
internal resources were successfully deployed to respond to a record number of catastrophe claims, including those resulting from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly in 2008.

The
Company continues to develop effective claim solutions that provide superior customer service. One example of this is the Company's auto claim service that features three
Company-owned auto repair facilities and selected independently-owned auto repair facilities with Company appraisers











on
site to complete an estimate, handle all rental arrangements and monitor the repair process from start to finish. By managing the claims in this way, the Company can help ensure prompt, quality
results and create a differentiated, superior claim experience for customers.

Another
strategic advantage is TravCompSM, a workers' compensation claim resolution and medical management program that assists adjusters in the prompt investigation and
effective management of workers' compensation claims. Innovative medical and claims management technologies permit nurse, medical and claims professionals to share appropriate vital information that
supports prompt investigation, effective return to work and claim resolution strategies. These technologies, together with effective matching of professional skills and authority to specific claim
issues, have resulted in more efficient management of workers' compensation claims.

REINSURANCE

The
Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including:

•facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single
policy and each policy reinsured is separately negotiated;•treaty reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and•catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Company is indemnified for an amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with
respect to losses resulting from a catastrophic event.

For
a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see note 15 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Catastrophe Reinsurance

Catastrophes can be caused by a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail,
wildfires, severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. Catastrophes can also result from a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events),
explosions, infrastructure failures or as a consequence of political instability. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a
function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas;











however,
hurricanes and earthquakes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those areas that are heavily populated. The Company generally seeks to manage its exposure to
catastrophes through individual risk selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. The Company utilizes a general catastrophe reinsurance treaty with unaffiliated reinsurers to manage its
exposure to losses resulting from catastrophes. In addition to the coverage provided under this treaty, the Company also utilizes a catastrophe bond program, as well as a Northeast catastrophe
reinsurance treaty, to protect against certain losses resulting from catastrophes in the Northeastern United States.

General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.The general catastrophe reinsurance treaty covers the accumulation of net property losses
arising out of one
occurrence. The treaty covers all of the Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their possessions and waters contiguous thereto, the Caribbean and Mexico. The treaty only provides
coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks.

The
following table summarizes the Company's coverage under its General Catastrophe Treaty, effective for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011:

Layer of LossReinsurance Coverage In-Force$0 - $1.0 billionLoss 100% retained by the Company, except for certain losses covered by the Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Treaty as described below$1.0 billion - $1.5 billion20.0% ($100 million) of loss covered by treaty; 80.0% ($400 million) of loss retained by Company$1.5 billion - $2.25 billion56.7% ($425 million) of loss covered by treaty; 43.3% ($325 million) of loss retained by CompanyGreater than $2.25 billion100% of loss retained by Company, except for certain losses incurred in the Northeastern United States, which are covered by the Catastrophe Bond Program and Northeast Catastrophe Treaty as described
below.

Catastrophe Bond Program.On December 18, 2009, Longpoint Re II, Ltd. (Longpoint Re II), a newly formed independent Cayman
Islands
insurance company, successfully completed an offering to unrelated investors of $500 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the offering, the Company and
Longpoint Re II entered into two reinsurance agreements (covering a three-year and four-year period, respectively), each providing up to $250 million of reinsurance on a
proportional basis from losses resulting from certain hurricane events in the northeastern United States.

Under
the terms of these reinsurance agreements, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Longpoint Re II for the reinsurance coverage. The reinsurance agreements
utilize a dual trigger that is based upon the Company's covered losses incurred and an index that is created by applying predetermined percentages to insured industry losses in each state in the
covered area as reported by a third-party service provider. The reinsurance agreements meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance
contracts. Amounts payable to the Company under the reinsurance agreements will be determined by the index-based losses, which are designed to approximate the Company's actual losses from any covered
event. The amount of actual losses and index losses from any covered event may differ. The principal amount of the catastrophe bonds will be reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the
reinsurance agreements.









The
index-based losses attachment point and maximum limit are reset annually to maintain modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss on the respective catastrophe bonds equal
to the initial modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss. The two reinsurance agreements provide protection for covered events occurring before or on December 18, 2012 and
December 18, 2013, respectively. The Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the two reinsurance agreements if the index-based losses in the covered area for a single
occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $2.250 billion. The full $250 million coverage amount of each agreement is available on a proportional basis until index-based losses
reach a maximum $2.850 billion limit. The Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted in a recovery under the Longpoint Re II agreements since their inception.

As
with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Longpoint Re II, the credit risk is mitigated by two
reinsurance trust accounts, one for each agreement. Each reinsurance trust account has been funded by Longpoint Re II with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations backed
by the U.S. government with maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor's. Other permissible
investments include repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government obligations backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash.

At
the time the agreements were entered into with Longpoint Re II, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs.
Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights
to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations, or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the
entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's expected residual
returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements.

As
a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreement with Longpoint Re II, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and
(b) above were present. However, while Longpoint Re II was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its
results, caused by the reinsurance agreements, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by the Longpoint Re II and residual amounts earned by it, if any,
are expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Longpoint Re II).

Accordingly,
the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Longpoint Re II and does not consolidate that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally, because
the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Longpoint Re II, the consolidation of that entity in the
Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

Northeast Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.In addition to its General Catastrophe treaty and its multi-year catastrophe bond program, the
Company also is party to a Northeast General Catastrophe treaty which provides up to $600 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention, for losses arising from hurricanes,
earthquakes and winter storm or freeze losses from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011. Losses from a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere
in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the catastrophe bond programs (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to
this treaty.









Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty—The Company has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss
treaty that provides for up to $150 million of coverage, subject to a $125 million retention, for earthquake losses incurred under policies written by the National Property business unit
in the Company's Business Insurance segment for the period July 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011.

International Reinsurance Treaties.For business underwritten in Canada, the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and in the Company's
operations at
Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the respective local balance sheet. The Company conducts an ongoing
review of its risk and catastrophe coverages and makes changes as it deems appropriate.

Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (the Program) is a Federal program administered by the
Department of the
Treasury that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism or war committed by or on behalf of a foreign interest. The
Program has been authorized through 2014.

In
order for a loss to be covered under the Program (subject losses), the loss must meet certain aggregate industry loss minimums and must be the result of an event that is certified as
an act of terrorism by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General of the United States. The annual aggregate industry loss minimum is
$100 million
through 2014. The Program excludes from participation the following types of insurance: Federal crop insurance, private mortgage insurance, financial guaranty insurance, medical malpractice insurance,
health or life insurance, flood insurance, reinsurance, commercial automobile, professional liability (other than directors and officers'), surety, burglary and theft, and farm-owners
multi-peril. In the case of a war declared by Congress, only workers' compensation losses are covered by the Program. All commercial property and casualty insurers licensed in the United States are
generally required to participate in the Program. Under the Program, a participating insurer is entitled to be reimbursed by the Federal Government for 85% of subject losses, after an insurer
deductible, subject to an annual cap.

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES

Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and
loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.









The
Company continually refines its reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process that includes review of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The
Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed.
In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are also reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the
Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates."

The
process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" section of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is
difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus
occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the
occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The
Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for
each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the
relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation."

Discounting

The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long-term disability and annuity claim payments, primarily
arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both
December 31, 2010 and 2009. These discounted reserves totaled $2.09 billion and $2.16 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009 respectively.

Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table

The table that follows sets forth the year-end reserves from 2000 through 2010 and the subsequent changes in those
reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for the years 2000 through 2003 have not been restated to
reflect the acquisition by Travelers Property Casualty Corp. (TPC) of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC) in 2004 (referred to hereafter as the Merger). The table includes SPC reserves
beginning at December 31, 2004.

In
addition, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for 2000 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Northland
and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. Beginning in 2001, the table includes the reserve activity of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. The data in the table is presented in accordance with
reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly
reported by the insurance











industry.
The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 2000 to 2010 year-end reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves.

For
instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that
year-end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year-end and those amounts are not additive.
Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 2000 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2005 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the
excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 2000 to 2004 shown in the
accompanying table.

Various
factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative
deficiencies shown in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the
post-1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future.

Other
factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example,
reserves for long-term disability and annuity claim payments (tabular reserves), primarily arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies,
are discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates.
Also, a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business,
increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves
and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or
redundancies on the Company's earnings but are not reflected in the table.

Because
of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table.











(at December 31, in millions)20002001(a)2002(a)2003(a)2004(a)(b)(c)2005(a)(b)(c)2006(a)(b)(c)2007(a)(b)(c)2008(a)(b)(c)2009(a)(b)2010(a)(b)

Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated$19,435$20,197$23,268$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255

Cumulative amounts paid as of

One year later4,3745,0185,1704,6518,8718,6327,4178,1467,5197,748

Two years later7,5178,7458,3198,68614,66613,83713,18112,79812,454

Three years later10,21811,14911,31211,54118,73318,46616,54516,264

Four years later12,00013,40213,54813,70822,51421,02519,113

Five years later13,60315,11515,22915,57424,57222,992

Six years later14,95816,47316,83616,62426,189

Seven years later16,06317,87717,73817,558

Eight years later17,28318,66218,563

Nine years later17,94519,416

Ten years later18,571

Reserves re-estimated as of

One year later19,39423,22823,65824,22241,70642,46642,17241,37339,86339,524

Two years later22,23324,08324,59225,27242,56542,31140,83739,92538,640

Three years later22,77825,06225,55326,04242,94041,69239,73938,842

Four years later23,87125,95326,28826,50143,14840,85538,734

Five years later24,87226,67026,73126,80342,65540,026

Six years later25,52127,17927,05526,61942,068

Seven years later26,03927,55627,02226,342

Eight years later26,36427,58026,815

Nine years later26,38027,496

Ten years later26,397

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy) (a)(b)6,9627,2993,5472,287622(2,869)(4,110)(4,256)(2,672)(1,417)

Gross liability—end of year$28,312$30,617$33,628$34,474$58,984$61,007$59,202$57,619$54,646$53,054$51,062

Reinsurance recoverables8,87710,42010,36010,41917,53818,11216,35814,52113,33412,11310,807



Net liability—end of year$19,435$20,197$23,268$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255



Gross re-estimated liability—latest$37,357$40,001$38,606$37,270$59,656$57,824$54,123$52,606$51,144$51,116

Re-estimated reinsurance recoverables—latest10,96012,50511,79110,92817,58817,79815,38913,76412,50411,592



Net re-estimated liability—latest$26,397$27,496$26,815$26,342$42,068$40,026$38,734$38,842$38,640$39,524



Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy)$9,045$9,384$4,978$2,796$672$(3,183)$(5,079)$(5,013)$(3,502)$(1,938)



Included in the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by year is the following impact of unfavorable prior year
reserve development related to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions:

Asbestos2000200120022003200420052006200720082009Gross$5,953$5,680$2,020$1,995$1,547$713$516$517$447$262Net$4,493$4,311$1,366$1,342$1,382$551$395$395$325$140Environmental2000200120022003200420052006200720082009Gross$940$887$733$674$522$505$397$215$130$45Net$893$851$701$642$525$495$375$190$105$35



(a)

Includes
reserves of the subsidiaries of Jupiter Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and Commercial Guaranty Lloyds Insurance Company, which were
acquired from Citigroup on October 1, 2001. Also includes reserves of Commercial Guaranty Casualty Insurance Company, which was contributed to TPC by Citigroup on October 3, 2001. At
December 31, 2001, these gross reserves were $867 million, and net reserves were $633 million.

(b)

For
years prior to 2004, excludes SPC reserves, which were acquired on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims
and claim adjustment expense re-estimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for years prior to 2004 relates only to losses
recorded by TPC and does not include reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, includes SPC reserves and subsequent development recorded by SPC. At December 31, 2004,
SPC gross reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million.

(c)

In
December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.)-based runoff
insurance and reinsurance businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the Merger.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled
$790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in
December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the
reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses.







Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis

At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding
table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $20 million, $18 million and $5 million higher, respectively, than
those reported in the Company's respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves).

The
differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items, (1) fees associated with billing of
required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty
insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting.
Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive
reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other
liabilities as contra-liabilities rather than in loss reserves.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group,
a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation."

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS

Most of the Company's insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement.
Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's capital and surplus rather than just on its own capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the
members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.

RATINGS

Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings
from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies
typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of an insurer's ability to meet its financial
obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of a company's prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the setting
of interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn
at any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency
to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company's overall financial strength. The ratings issued on
the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's website and from the agencies.









A
downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company's business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its
products may be reduced, particularly because many customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with it.

Additionally,
a downgrade in one or more of the Company's debt ratings could adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in
the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Company's debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company's revolving
credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 175 basis points, depending on the Company's debt ratings), the Company's commercial
paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See "Item 7—"Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the Company's revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company considers the
level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a
one- to two-notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs.
In addition, the Company considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases.

Claims—Paying Ratings

The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers
C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as
of February 17, 2011. The table also presents S&P's Lloyd's Syndicate Assessment rating for Travelers Syndicate Management Limited—Syndicate 5000. The table presents the position of
each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchTravelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b)A+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA- (4thof 21)AA (3rdof 21)Travelers C&S Co. of AmericaA+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA- (4thof 21)AA (3rdof 21)First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.A- (4thof 16)——AA (3rdof 21)First Trenton Indemnity CompanyA (3rdof 16)——AA (3rdof 21)The Premier Insurance Company of MassachusettsA (3rdof 16)———Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd.A+ (2ndof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA- (4thof 21)—Travelers Guarantee Company of CanadaA+ (2ndof 16)———Travelers Insurance Company LimitedA (3rdof 16)—AA- (4thof 21)—Travelers Syndicate Management Limited—Syndicate 5000——3- (9thof 15)—

(a)The
Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The
Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company,
The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty
Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company,
Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal
Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company,









Athena
Assurance Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, St. Paul Medical Liability Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury
Insurance Company, Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and
Guaranty Company.(b)The
following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company,
Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and
Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.

Debt Ratings

The following table summarizes the current debt, preferred stock and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of
February 17, 2011. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchSenior debta (6thof 22)A2 (6thof 21)A- (7thof 22)A (6thof 22)Subordinated debta- (7thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Junior subordinated debtbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB (9thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Trust preferred securitiesbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB (9thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Preferred stockbbb+ (8thof 22)Baa1 (8thof 21)BBB (9thof 22)—Commercial paperAMB-1 (2ndof 6)P-1 (1stof 4)A-2 (3rdof 10)F-1 (2ndof 8)

Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 18, 2010 (the date on which the Company
filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009), through February 17, 2011:

•On June 8, 2010, A.M. Best upgraded the Company's debt ratings for The Travelers Companies, Inc. one
notch and reaffirmed the claims-paying ratings for Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers C&S Co. of America, First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co., First Trenton Indemnity Company, The
Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. and Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada. The outlook for all ratings is stable.•On June 10, 2010, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable.•On August 10, 2010, Standard & Poor's affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained positive.•On October 15, 2010, Moody's affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable.•On October 15, 2010, A.M. Best affirmed all ratings of Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook
remained stable.•On October 27, 2010, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable.•On February 1, 2011, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S.
Government, tax-exempt U.S. municipal, and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and
investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate











The
primary goals of the Company's asset—liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in
projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Company's fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company's
insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the expected present value of
the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of the Company's ability to fund claim
payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access its credit facilities.

The
Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships, hedge funds and trading securities. These
investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See
note 3 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio.

REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation

TRV's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The
extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state. The regulation,
supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on
investments, premium rates, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of
securities for the benefit of policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and
claims practices. In addition, many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to
obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and
require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis. TRV's insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to











transact
insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends.TRV's principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the state of Connecticut. The
Connecticut
insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that together with other distributions made within
the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurer's capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurer's net income for the twelve-month period ending the
preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned
surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The
insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive,
limitations on the payment of dividends.

Rate and Rule Approvals.TRV's insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule
approvals. The
applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An
insurer's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies.Several states have laws and regulations which may
impact the
timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances
insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non-renew certain policies only for certain
specified reasons.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements.Virtually all states
require
insurers licensed to do business in their state,











including
TRV's insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that establish second-injury
funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

TRV's
insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance, property
windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that
coverage in the voluntary market.

Assessments
may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance
Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from
those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not
reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory
pooling and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see Item 1A—"Risk Factors."

Insurance Regulatory Information System.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory
Information
System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year-end data.
These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results.
A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS
ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for
financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual
ranges of four or more of the ratios.

Based
on preliminary 2010 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company, the following lead insurance subsidiaries had results outside the normal range due to the actions taken by the Company
during 2010 to dividend excess capital to the holding company: The Travelers Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its
subsidiaries and for three IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent; Travelers Casualty and Surety Company and The Standard Fire Insurance Company had results outside the normal
range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries and for two IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent; and St. Paul Fire and Marine
Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for three IRIS ratios due to the amount of dividends paid to its parent.

In
2009, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries.

Management
does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2010 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior
years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required.

Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements.The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC
requirement determines minimum capital requirements











and
is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC
calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

The
formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to
use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2010, all of TRV's insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC requirement.

Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality
and
concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with these laws and
regulations.

Agent and Broker Compensation.In December 2010, the Company and the Attorneys General of New York, Illinois and Connecticut amended
and restated
existing settlement agreements with the Company regarding producer compensation. The amendments do not restrict the payment of contingent commissions as producer compensation.

International Regulation

TRV's insurance underwriting subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Travelers Insurance Company Limited and Travelers Casualty and
Surety Company of Europe Limited, are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSA's principal objectives are to maintain market confidence, promote public understanding of the
financial system, protect consumers, and fight financial crime. TRV's managing agent (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyd's syndicate is also regulated by the FSA, which has
delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's.

Through
Lloyd's, TRV is licensed to write business in over 70 countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In each such country, TRV is subject to the laws
and insurance regulation of that country. A TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance
Regulatory Commission. A TRV subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority. In addition, TRV's Lloyd's managing agency has a service company in Singapore, the underwriting operations of which are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.

TRV's
insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are regulated by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the Central Bank of Ireland. Such operations are conducted through an
Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which, as mentioned above, is regulated by the FSA. In Canada, the conduct of TRV's insurance business is regulated by the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act, which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on the type and amount of
insurance policies in force.

The
European Union's executive body, the European Commission, is implementing new capital adequacy and risk management regulations called Solvency II that would apply to the Company's
businesses across the European Union beginning as soon as the fourth quarter of 2012. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain
Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary's capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed
"equivalent" to Solvency II. In addition, regulators in countries where the Company has operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (and in the U.S., with the
National











Association
of Insurance Commissioners) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including solvency requirements and group supervision. While it is not certain how or if these actions
will impact the Company, it does not currently expect the capital management strategies for its U.S. operating companies or its European Union operating companies will be materially impacted.

Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it
is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws,
require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other
things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control.Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance
approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The
laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company
admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of
cease and desist
orders with respect to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any
transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in
which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition
notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two
of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the
Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 including approval of the Financial Services Authority. Some of TRV's other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance
business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions.

These
requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's
shareholders.

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the
environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential
impact on all aspects of the Company. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value
for all of the Company's stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation and











management
is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to
effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the Company's risk capital needs, which takes into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in
addition to economic and other factors.

ERM
at the Company is an integral part of business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the board of directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves
risk-based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The
Company uses various methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. These analyses and methods are
used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions as part of managing the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and
analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term financial
strategies and objectives.

In
addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management Committee
(comprised of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Underwriting Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief
Compliance Officer, the Business Conduct Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior
executive oversees the ERM process. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company.
Another strategic ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall effort to
understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the board of directors, which reviews the strategies, processes
and controls pertaining to the Company's insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company's ERM program.

The
Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations,
reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on
value creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control
system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite
of the Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in
"Item 1A—Risk Factors," "Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "Item 8—Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."

OTHER INFORMATION

Customer Concentration

In the opinion of the Company's management, no material part of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer or group of customers, the loss of any one of











which
would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues.

Employees

At December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 32,000 employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are
satisfactory. None of the Company's employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

Sources of Liquidity

For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the long-term debt of the Company, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and note 8 of notes to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Taxation

For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see note 11 of notes to the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments

For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Recent Transactions

For information regarding recent transactions of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Company Website and Availability of SEC Filings

The Company's Internet website iswww.travelers.com. Information on the Company's
website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to
the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished
to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the Company's website, then click on "SEC Filings" under the "Investors" heading.

From
time to time, the Company may use its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the Company is
routinely posted on and accessible athttp://investor.travelers.com. In addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other
information about the Company by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting the "E-mail Alert Service" section athttp://investor.travelers.com.









Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms





Accident yearThe annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.

Adjusted unassigned surplusUnassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year's
unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.

Admitted insurerA company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.

AnnuityA contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or
more persons or for a specified period of time.

Assigned risk poolsReinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their
direct writings.

Assumed reinsuranceInsurance risks acquired from a ceding company.

Average value analysisAn actuarial method used to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that average claim values are stable and predictable over time for a
particular cohort of claims. The method is utilized most often where ultimate claim counts are known or reliably estimable fairly early after the start of an accident year and average values are expected to be fairly predictable from one year to the
next.

The method comes up with an estimate of ultimate claims counts by accident year cohort, and multiplies it by an
estimate of average claim value by accident year cohort, with multiple methods used to estimate these average claim values.

Book value per shareTotal common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.

Bornhuetter-Ferguson methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the outstanding losses.













The basic premise of the method is that the historical ratio of additional claim activity to earned premium for a given product
line component/age-to-age period is stable and predictable. It implicitly assumes that the actual activity to date for past periods for that cohort is not a credible predictor of future activity for that cohort, or at least is not credible enough to
override the "a priori" assumption as to future activity. It may be applied to either paid or case incurred claim data. It is used most often where the claim data is sparse and/or volatile and for relatively young cohorts with low volumes and/or data
credibility.

To illustrate, the method may assume that the ratio of additional paid losses from the 12 to 24 month
period for an accident year is 10% of the original "a priori" expected losses for that accident year. The original "a priori" expected losses are typically based on the original loss ratio assumption for that accident year, with subsequent adjustment
as facts develop.

The ultimate losses equal actual activity to date plus the expected values for future periods.

BrokerOne who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission
from the insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.

CapacityThe percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to
place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.

CaptiveA closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company's owners
or their affiliates.

Case-incurred development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method," but based
on the growth in cumulative case-incurred losses (i.e., the sum of claim-adjustor incurred estimates for claims in the cohort) rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative case incurred losses for a given cohort of
claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort.

Case reservesClaim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported
claim.













Casualty insuranceInsurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the
legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers' liability, workers' compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance. It excludes
certain types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.

CatastropheA severe loss, resulting from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms,
earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. Catastrophes can also result from a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions, infrastructure
failures or as a consequence of political instability. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount. Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim adjustment
expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.

Catastrophe lossLoss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes.

Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a "catastrophe cover." These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to
cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers' compensation policies.

Cede; ceding companyWhen an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a "cession," it "cedes" business and is referred
to as the "ceding company."

Ceded reinsuranceInsurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

ClaimRequest by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured
peril.

Claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss" and "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expense reservesSee "Loss reserves."

CohortA group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example,
all claims for a given product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.













Commercial multi-peril policiesRefers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.

Commutation agreementAn agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in
exchange for a complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.

Debt-to-total capital ratioThe ratio of debt to total capitalization.

Debt-to-total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investmentsThe ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and
losses.

DeductibleThe amount of loss that an insured retains.

Deferred acquisition costsPrimarily commissions and premium-related taxes that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of
new contracts and are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).

DeficiencyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are insufficient to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as
new information becomes available.

Demand surgeSignificant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for
those materials and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.

Direct written premiumsThe amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of
an insurance contract. The amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded.

Earned premiums or premiums earnedThat portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term.
Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP) and GAAP.

Excess liabilityAdditional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.

Excess of loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar
amount or "retention."

Expense ratioSee "Underwriting expense ratio."

ExposureThe measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product. The change in exposure is the amount of change
in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.













Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately
negotiated.

Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) PlanA residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through
the regular (voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see "residual market (involuntary business)."

Fidelity and surety programsFidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee. Surety is a three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.

GAAP combined ratioThe sum of the loss and LAE ratio, the underwriting expense ratio and, where applicable, the ratio of dividends
to policyholders to net premiums earned. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.

GAAP combined ratio excluding incremental impact of direct to consumer initiativeThe GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the Company's direct-to-consumer
initiative in the Personal Insurance segment.

Gross written premiumsThe direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of
the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.

Ground-up analysisA method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line
component. It involves analyzing the exposure at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses for the cohort are
then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.

In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the
larger insureds, with the costs for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured
analysis).

Guaranteed cost productsAn insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the
covered period.

Guaranty fundA state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should
insolvencies occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer's obligations to policyholders.













Holding company liquidityTotal cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reservesReserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes
amounts for unreported claims, development on known cases, and re-opened claims.

Inland marineA broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well
as bridges, tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and
others.

IRIS ratiosFinancial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies.

Large deductible policyAn insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is
responsible for paying the entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.

Lloyd'sAn insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks,
deal with Lloyd's underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.

LossAn occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or
excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.

Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to
claim settlement costs.

Loss and LAE ratioFor SAP, it is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net earned premiums. For GAAP, it is
the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.

Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the
insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document,
"loss reserves" is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.

Loss reserve developmentThe increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.













Losses incurredThe total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred losses include a
provision for IBNR.

National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the
five U.S. territories organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.

Net written premiumsDirect written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.

New business volumeThe amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing
policyholders.

Operating income (loss)Net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued
operations and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable.

Operating income (loss) per shareOperating income (loss) on a per share basis.

Operating return on equityThe ratio of operating income to average equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses and
discontinued operations, net of tax.

Paid development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that cumulative paid losses for a given cohort of claims will grow in a
stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort. These age-to-age growth factors are sometimes called "link ratios."

For example, if cumulative paid losses for a product line XYZ for accident year 2004 were $100 as of
December 31, 2004 (12 months after the start of that accident year), then grew to $120 as of December 31, 2005 (24 months after the start), the link ratio for that accident year from 12 to 24 months would be 1.20. If the link
ratio for other recent accident years from 12 to 24 months for that product line were also at or around 1.20, then the method would assume a similar result for the most recent accident year, i.e., that it too would have its cumulative paid
losses grow 120% from the 12 month to 24 month valuation.

This is repeated for each age-to-age period into the future until the age-to-age link ratios for future periods
are assumed to be 1.0 (i.e., the age at which cumulative losses are assumed to have stopped growing).













A given accident year's cumulative losses are then projected to ultimate by multiplying current cumulative losses by successive
age-to-age link ratios up to that future age where growth is expected to end. For example, if growth is expected to end at 60 months, then the ultimate indication for an accident year with cumulative losses at 12 months equals those losses
times a 12 to 24 month link ratio, times a 24 to 36 month link ratio, times a 36 to 48 month link ratio, times a 48 to 60 month link ratio.

Advanced applications of the method include adjustments for changing conditions during the historical period and
anticipated changes in the future.

PoolAn organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums,
 losses and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.

PremiumsThe amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance
company.

Property insuranceInsurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for
that person's or business's property loss, damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsuranceReinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for
each policy covered on a pro rata basis.

RatesAmounts charged per unit of insurance.

RedundancyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy
exists) may change as new information becomes available.

Reinstatement premiumsAdditional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of
reinsured losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.

ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer,
agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreementA contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.

Renewal premium changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes.

Renewal rate changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes.













Reported claim development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate claim counts for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line
component. If the reported-to-date counts are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate counts, the result is an indication of the IBNR counts.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method", but based
on the growth in cumulative claim counts rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative claim counts for a given cohort of claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the
cohort.

Residual market (involuntary business)Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary
market. Possible reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of
available coverage such as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers' compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in
proportion to the carriers' voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.

RetentionThe amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to
an insurance policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.

Retention rateCurrent period renewal premiums, accounts or policies as a percentage of total premiums, accounts or policies
available for renewal.

Retrospective premiumsPremiums related to retrospectively rated policies.

Retrospective ratingA plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss
experience, subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.

Return on equityThe ratio of net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity.

Risk-based capital (RBC)A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory capital and surplus
requirements of insurers. Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

Risk retention groupAn alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self
insure their risks.













Runoff businessAn operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a cessation of writing
new business, where allowed by law.

SalvageThe amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a
loss payment.

S-curve methodA mathematical function which depicts an initial slow change, followed by a rapid change and then ending in a
slow change again. This results in an "S" shaped line when depicted graphically. The actuarial application of these curves fit the reported data to date for a particular cohort of claims to an S-curve to project future activity for that
cohort.

Second-injury fundThe employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers' compensation benefit for the
most recent injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and
self-insureds based on either premiums or losses.

Self-insured retentionsThat portion of the risk retained by a person for its own account.

Servicing carrierAn insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and
customer service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.

Statutory accounting practices (SAP)The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in
the United States for recording transactions and preparing financial statements. Statutory accounting practices generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.

Statutory surplusAs determined under SAP, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted
from all admitted assets. Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Statutory surplus is also referred to as "surplus" or "surplus as regards policyholders" for
statutory accounting purposes.

Structured settlementsPeriodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in
settlement of a claim under a liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.

SubrogationA principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim
under a policy, to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.

Third-party liabilityA liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract.
Insured liability claims are referred to as third-party claims.

Total capitalizationThe sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.













Treaty reinsuranceThe reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a "treaty") between a primary
insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks originally written
by the primary insurer or reinsured.

Umbrella coverageA form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies
or amounts not covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned surplusThe undistributed and unappropriated amount of statutory surplus.

UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in
order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.

UnderwritingThe insurer's or reinsurer's process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to
whether to accept all or part of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.

Underwriting expense ratioFor SAP, it is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred less other income to net written premiums. For GAAP,
it is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums.

Underwriting gain or lossNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related
expenses.

Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.

Voluntary marketThe market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market
mechanisms.

Wholesale brokerAn independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and nonadmitted insurers in market areas, which
include standard, non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker.

Workers' compensationA system (established under state and federal laws) under which employers provide insurance for benefit payments
to their employees for work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault.









