Item 1.    BUSINESS

The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally engaged,
through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals. The
Company is incorporated as a general business
corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are
located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut, and
St. Paul, Minnesota. The term "TRV" in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

For
a summary of the Company's revenues, core income and total assets by reportable business segments, see note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent relationships and
methods of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of independent agents, exclusive agents, direct marketing and/or salaried employees. According to A.M. Best, there are
approximately 1,200 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,630 property and casualty companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 92% of
the consolidated industry's total net written premiums in 2016. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial
lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional insurance products. These products include large deductible programs and
various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The Company's competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including
the following:

•ability to profitably price business, retain existing customers and obtain new business;•premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs);•agent, broker and policyholder relationships;•ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems;•speed of claims payment;•ability to provide products and services in a cost effective manner;•ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs;•ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which the Company
operates;•perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•reputation, experience and qualifications of employees;•geographic scope of business; and•local presence.









In
addition, the marketplace is affected by the available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by statutory capital and surplus, and the availability of reinsurance from both
traditional sources, such as reinsurance companies and capital markets (through catastrophe bonds), and non-traditional sources, such as hedge funds and pension plans. Industry capacity as measured by
statutory capital and surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through dividends and share
repurchases. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase statutory capital and surplus.

Pricing and Underwriting

Pricing of the Company's property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses, the
expenses associated with producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money related to the expected loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable profit margin that
considers the capital needed to support the Company's business. The Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes product returns and profitable growth over
the long-term rather than premium volume or market share. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The applicable state
laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price competition. The
Company's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements, as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2017:



Location% ofTotalDomestic:New York9.9%California9.9Texas7.7Pennsylvania4.6Florida4.2New Jersey4.0Illinois3.8Georgia3.5All other domestic(1)46.1​​​​​Total Domestic93.7​​​​​International:Canada4.4All other international(1)1.9​​​​​Total International6.3​​​​​Consolidated total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums written in 2017.









Catastrophe Exposure

The Company's property and casualty insurance operations expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and
methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze underwriting risks of business in natural catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas
for conventional terrorist attacks (defined as attacks other than nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events). The Company relies, in part, upon these analyses to make underwriting decisions
designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. For example, as a result of these analyses, the Company has at various times limited the writing of new property and homeowners
business in some markets and has selectively taken underwriting actions on new and existing business. These underwriting actions on new and existing business include tightening underwriting standards,
selective price increases and changes to deductibles specific to hurricane-, tornado-, wind- and hail-prone areas. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions."
The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See "—Reinsurance."

Segment Realignment

Effective April 1, 2017, the Company's results are reported in the following three business segments—Business Insurance,
Bond & Specialty Insurance and Personal Insurance, reflecting a change in the manner in which the Company's businesses were being managed as of that date, as well as the aggregation of products
and services based on the type of customer, how the business is marketed and the manner in which risks are underwritten. While the segmentation of the Company's domestic businesses was unchanged, the
Company's international businesses, which were previously managed and reported in total within the Business and International Insurance segment, were disaggregated by product type among the three
newly aligned reportable business segments. In connection with these changes, the Company revised the names and descriptions of certain businesses comprising the Company's segments and has reflected
other related changes. The following discussion of the Company's reportable business segments reflects the realigned segment reporting structure. Financial data for all prior periods presented was
reclassified to be consistent with the 2017 presentation.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

Business Insurance offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its customers, primarily in the
United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Brazil and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd's. Business Insurance is organized as
follows:

Domestic•Select Accountsprovides small businesses with property and casualty insurance products and
services, including commercial multi-peril, workers' compensation, commercial automobile, general liability and commercial property.•Middle Marketprovides mid-sized businesses with property and casualty insurance products and
services, including workers' compensation, general liability, commercial multi-peril, commercial automobile and commercial property, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services.
Middle Market generally provides these products to mid-sized businesses throughCommercial Accounts,as well as to targeted industries
throughConstruction, Technology, Public Sector ServicesandOil & Gas,and additionally,
provides mono-line umbrella and excess coverage insurance throughExcess Casualty.Middle Market also provides insurance for goods in transit and
movable objects, as well as builders' risk insurance, throughInland Marine; insurance for the









marine
transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade, throughOcean Marine;and
comprehensive breakdown for equipment, including property and business interruption, throughBoiler & Machinery.

•National Accountsprovides large companies with casualty insurance products and services,
including workers' compensation, commercial automobile and general liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis. National Accounts also includes the
Company's commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers' compensation products and services to the involuntary market.•National Property and Otherprovides traditional and customized commercial property insurance
programs to large and mid-sized customers throughNational Property.National Property and Other also provides insurance coverage for the commercial
transportation industry throughNorthland Transportation, general liability and commercial property policies for small, difficult to place specialty
classes of commercial business primarily on an excess and surplus lines basis throughNorthfield,and tailored property and casualty insurance programs
on an admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements throughNational Programs. National Property and Other also
serves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses, including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations, throughAgribusiness.

International•International, through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland
and Brazil, provides property and casualty insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, manufacturing and public services
industry sectors. International also provides insurance for both the foreign exposures of United States organizations and the United States exposures of foreign organizations throughGlobal Services.
Through its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, International underwrites five
principal businesses—marine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and aviation.

Business
Insurance also includes Simply Business, a leading provider of small business insurance policies in the United Kingdom that was acquired in August 2017, as well as Business
Insurance Other, which comprises the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain other runoff operations.

Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Business Insurance's net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a description
of the markets and product lines
referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines," respectively.











(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201720162015% of Total2017By market:Domestic:Select Accounts$2,800$2,729$2,71619.6%Middle Market7,7567,3797,18654.3National Accounts1,0101,0581,0487.1National Property and Other1,6911,7791,79111.9​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic13,25712,94512,74192.9International1,0139551,0337.1​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business Insurance by market$14,270$13,900$13,774100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​By product line:Domestic:Workers' compensation$3,926$3,945$3,91527.5%Commercial automobile2,2192,0371,95815.6Commercial property1,7721,7871,76012.4General liability2,0861,9871,92414.6Commercial multi-peril3,2283,1573,14622.6Other2632380.2​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic13,25712,94512,74192.9International1,0139551,0337.1​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business Insurance by product line$14,270$13,900$13,774100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Business Insurance markets and distributes its products through approximately 10,500 independent agencies and brokers. Agencies and brokers are
serviced by 114 field offices and three customer service centers.

Business
Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products,
Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency
or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products offered in the United States are distributed through independent agents and brokers, many of
whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance and Bond & Specialty Insurance products. Additionally, several operations may underwrite business with agents that specialize in servicing the
needs of certain of the industries served by these operations. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology to provide real-time interface capabilities with
independent agencies and brokers.

Domestic

•Select Accountsmarkets and distributes its products and services to small businesses,
generally with fewer than 50 employees, through a large network of independent agents and brokers. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products
covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a
substantial amount of new small business risks at their desktop in an efficient manner that significantly reduces the time period between quoting a price on a new policy and issuing that









policy.
Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel. Select Accounts has established a strong marketing relationship with its distribution network
and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies, a broad array of products and competitive prices. In addition, the Company has established centralized service centers to help agents
perform many service functions, in return for a fee.

•

Middle Marketmarkets and distributes its products and services primarily to mid-sized
businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees through a large network of independent agents and brokers. The Company offers a full line of products to its Middle Market customers with an emphasis on
guaranteed-cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows
Middle Market to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base. Within Middle Market, products and services are tailored to certain targeted industry segments of significant size and
complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other insurance-related products and services.

•

National Accountsmarkets and distributes its products and services to large companies through
a network of national and regional brokers, primarily utilizing loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a retrospectively rated
or a guaranteed-cost insurance policy. National Accounts also provides casualty products and services through retail brokers on an unbundled basis, using third-party administrators for insureds who
utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. National Accounts provides insurance-related services, such as risk management services, claims
administration, loss control and risk management information services, either in addition to, or in lieu of, pure risk coverage, and generated $252 million of fee income in 2017, excluding
commercial residual market business. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts sells claims and policy management services to workers' compensation pools throughout the United
States, and generated $120 million of fee income in 2017. National Accounts services approximately 36% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the
largest servicing carriers in the industry. Workers' compensation accounted for approximately 71% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2017, based on direct written premiums and fees.

•

National Property and Othermarkets and distributes its products and services to a wide
customer base, providing traditional and customized insurance programs to a broad range of customer sizes through a large network of agents and brokers. National Property and Other also markets and
distributes its products through brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents who operate in certain markets that are not typically served by the Company's appointed
retail agents, or who maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is characterized by the absence of rate and form
regulation, allows for more pricing and coverage flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with agents or program managers on a brokerage basis, National Property and Other
underwrites the business internally and sets the premium level. In working with agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce and underwrite business subject to
pricing and underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.

Internationalmarkets and distributes its products principally through brokers in each of the countries in which it operates.
International also writes business at Lloyd's, where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses, Business Insurance has access
to international markets across the world.









Pricing and Underwriting

Business Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for particular industries, in
conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The Company utilizes both
standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.

Product Lines

Business Insurance provides the following types of products and services:

Domestic

•Workers' Compensation.Provides
coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation
policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers,
employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on the injured employee's early return to work and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers'
compensation products:•guaranteed-cost insurance products, where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the covered
period;•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which fees or premiums are
adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees rather
than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements.

The
Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.









•

Commercial Automobile.Provides
coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties, property damage to an insured's vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other
property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.

•

Commercial Property.Provides
coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe
winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. For
additional information on terrorism coverages, see "Reinsurance—Catastrophe Reinsurance—Terrorism Risk Insurance Program." Commercial property also includes specialized
equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for
goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

•

General Liability.Provides
coverages for businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products
sold. Coverages may also include directors' and officers' liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of
pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified
circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

•

Commercial Multi-Peril.Provides
a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line descriptions.

International

•Provides coverage for employers' liability (similar to workers' compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability (the
equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), commercial property, commercial automobile, marine, aviation, personal accident and
kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, offshore energy, ports and terminals, fine art and terrorism. Aviation
provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident provides financial
protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and extortion.
While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms potentially very different from those the Company
faces in the United States.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to Business Insurance as of January 1, 2018. For
third-party liability, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $16.0 million per insured, per occurrence. For property exposures,
Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum amount per risk of $20.0 million per occurrence. Business Insurance generally retains its
workers' compensation exposures. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Business
Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce









retentions
on an individual risk basis. Business Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended December 31,
2017:



Location% ofTotalDomestic:California12.3%New York9.7Texas6.7Illinois4.6New Jersey3.9Pennsylvania3.9Florida3.6Massachusetts3.1All other domestic(1)46.6​​​​​Total Domestic94.4​​​​​International:Canada3.0All other international(1)2.6​​​​​Total International5.6​​​​​Total Business Insurance100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of Business Insurance's direct written premiums in 2017.

Competition

The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other entities
offering risk alternatives, such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for insurance products and
the levels of coverage and service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to profitably provide insurance and services,
including claims handling and risk control, at prices and terms that retain existing customers and attract new customers. See "Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense
competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to
maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability."

Domestic

Competitors typically write Select Accounts business through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers, and as direct
writers. Both national (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) and regional property and casualty insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally
comprises lower-hazard, "Main Street" business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry practices and a combination of proprietary and









standard
industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on breadth of product offerings, service levels, ease and speed of doing business and price.

Competitors
typically write Middle Market business through independent agents and brokers. Several of Middle Market's operations require unique combinations of industry knowledge,
customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Competitors in this market are primarily
national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and
regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and response time to agent,
broker and customer needs is one key to success in this market.

In
the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems
and collateral requirements. National Accounts primarily competes with national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.), as well as
with other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a variety of other risk-financing
vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market division competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services.

National
Property and Other competes in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized coverage,
specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these businesses compete with national carriers
(including international companies doing business in the U.S.) with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Specialized agents
and brokers, including wholesale agents and program managers, supplement this focused target market approach. National Property and Other's competitive strategy typically is based on the application
of focused industry knowledge to insurance and risk needs.

International

International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Brazil.
Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings, distribution partnerships and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various
markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets.

At
Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd's operation
writes business worldwide. Competition is based on price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite profitably with an emphasis on short-tail insurance lines.









BOND & SPECIALTY INSURANCE

Bond & Specialty Insurance provides surety, fidelity, management liability, professional liability, and other property and casualty
coverages and related risk management services to its customers in the United States and certain specialty insurance products in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Brazil,
utilizing various degrees of financially based underwriting approaches. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general
commercial enterprises; management liability coverages including directors' and officers' liability, employee dishonesty, employment practices liability, fiduciary liability and cyber risk for public
corporations, private companies, not-for-profit organizations and financial institutions; professional liability coverage for a variety of professionals including, among others, lawyers and design
professionals; and in the United States only, property, workers' compensation, auto and general liability for financial institutions.

Bond &
Specialty Insurance surety business in Brazil and Colombia is conducted through J. Malucelli Participações em Seguros e
Resseguros S.A. (JMalucelli) and J. Malucelli Latam S.A. in Brazil. The Company owns 49.5% of both JMalucelli, a market leader in surety coverages in Brazil, and
J. Malucelli Latam S.A., which in September 2015 acquired a majority interest in JMalucelli Travelers Seguros S.A., a Colombian start-up surety provider. These joint venture
investments are accounted for using the equity method and are included in "other investments" on the consolidated balance sheet.

Selected Product Information

The following table sets forth Bond & Specialty Insurance's net written premiums by product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the product lines referred to in the table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" for a discussion of
distribution channels for Bond & Specialty Insurance's product lines.



(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201720162015% of Total2017Domestic:Fidelity and surety$993$961$95242.1%General liability97795495241.4Other1901841778.1​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic2,1602,0992,08191.6International1991721928.4​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Bond & Specialty Insurance$2,359$2,271$2,273100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Bond & Specialty Insurance markets and distributes the vast majority of its products in the United States through approximately 5,600 of
the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute Business Insurance's products in the United States. Bond & Specialty Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent
insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Specialty Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or
broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely
monitored. Bond & Specialty Insurance, in conjunction with Business Insurance, continues to make investments in enhanced technology to provide real-time interface capabilities with its
independent agencies and brokers.









Pricing and Underwriting

Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for specific
accounts and industries, in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The
Company utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.

Product Lines

Bond & Specialty Insurance writes the following types of coverages:

Domestic•Fidelity and Surety.Provides
fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees
to pay a third party or complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured. Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals,
trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other performance bonds.•General Liability.Provides
coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the "Business Insurance" section of this report, as well as cyber risk coverages.•Other.Coverages include
Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in more detail in the "Business Insurance" section of this report.

International•Fidelity and Surety and certain General Liability products are provided internationally to various customer groups.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to Bond & Specialty Insurance as of January 1, 2018.
For third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers' liability, employment practices liability and cyber risk liability,
Bond & Specialty Insurance generally limits net retentions to $25.0 million per policy. For surety protection, where insured limits are often significant, Bond & Specialty
Insurance generally retains up to $115.0 million probable maximum loss (PML) per principal, after reinsurance, but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation, credit quality and
other credit risk factors. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Bond &
Specialty Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Bond & Specialty Insurance may also retain
amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Bond & Specialty Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2017:



Location% ofTotalDomestic:California10.3%New York6.4Texas6.0Florida5.0Illinois4.1Pennsylvania3.6Massachusetts3.0All other domestic(1)52.6​​​​​Total Domestic91.0​​​​​International:Canada4.4United Kingdom4.0All other international(1)0.6​​​​​Total International9.0​​​​​Total Bond & Specialty Insurance100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of Bond & Specialty Insurance's direct written premiums in 2017.

Competition

The competitive landscape in which Bond & Specialty Insurance operates is affected by many of the same factors described previously for
Business Insurance. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) that write most classes
of business and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.

Domestic

Bond & Specialty Insurance underwrites and markets its products to all sizes of businesses and other organizations, as well as
individuals. The Company believes that its reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and industry experts and strong producer and
customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Specialty Insurance an advantage over many of its competitors and enables it to
compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The Company believes that
the ability of Bond & Specialty Insurance to cross-sell its products to customers of Business Insurance and Personal Insurance provides additional competitive advantages for the Company. See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance
industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability."









International

International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Brazil.
Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries
similar to those served in the United States and provides certain specialty coverages for these markets.

PERSONAL INSURANCE

Personal Insurance writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks, primarily in the United States,
as well as in Canada. The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.

Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information

The following table sets forth net written premiums for Personal Insurance's business by product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" for a discussion of
distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines.



(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201720162015% of Total2017Domestic:Agency:Automobile$4,646$4,103$3,53448.4%Homeowners and Other3,9333,7723,68741.0​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Agency8,5797,8757,22189.4Direct-to-Consumer3613092363.8​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic8,9408,1847,45793.2International6506036176.8​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Personal Insurance$9,590$8,787$8,074100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Domestic

Personal Insurance products are marketed and distributed primarily through approximately 10,300 active independent agencies located throughout
the United States, supported by personnel in eight sales regions. In addition, sales and service are provided to customers through five contact centers. While the principal markets for Personal
Insurance products continue to be in states along the East Coast, California and Texas, the business continues to expand its geographic presence across the United States.

In
selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience
and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully monitors its performance.

Agents
can access the Company's agency service portal for a number of resources including customer service, marketing and claims management. In addition, agencies can choose to shift the
ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of









customer
service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately 1,500 agents take advantage of this service alternative, for which they generally pay a
fee.

Personal
Insurance also markets and distributes its products through additional channels, including corporations that make the Company's product offerings available to their employees
primarily through payroll deductions, consumer associations and affinity groups. Personal Insurance handles the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or
through the Company's contact center locations. In addition, since 1995, the Company has had a marketing agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for certain of their auto customers.

The
Company also markets its insurance products directly to consumers, largely through online channels. The Company's direct-to-consumer business continues to grow but still represents
modest premium volume for Personal Insurance, which is expected to continue for a number of years. The Company's direct-to-consumer business is also expected to be slightly unprofitable for a number
of years.

International

International markets and distributes its products principally through approximately 640 brokers located throughout Canada.

Pricing and Underwriting

Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claims, actuarial and product
development. This approach is designed to maintain high-quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary and third-party data accumulated over many years is analyzed and Personal
Insurance uses a variety of risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation and underwriting. The Company's product management area establishes underwriting guidelines integrated
with its filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to effectively execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

Domestic









The
Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the
competitive environment, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. The Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write in some states
for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other commercial or personal underwriting opportunities. In choosing to write business in some states, the Company also considers the costs and
benefits of those states' residual markets and guaranty funds, as well as other property and casualty business the Company writes in those states.

International

Pricing and underwriting for personal automobile and homeowners insurance in Canada is driven in large part by the same factors as in the United
States. For personal automobile insurance, all provinces in Canada require prior approval before rates are implemented.

Product Lines

Domestic

The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners and other insurance sold to individuals. Personal Insurance
had approximately 7.2 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) in the United States at December 31, 2017.

Personal
Insurance writes the following types of coverages:

•Personal Automobileprovides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury and
property damage, uninsured motorist protection, and for physical damage to an insured's own vehicle from collision, fire, flood, hail and theft. In addition, many states require policies to provide
first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.•Homeowners and Otherprovides protection against losses to residences and contents from a
variety of perils (excluding flooding) as well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and tenants, and rental properties. The Company
also writes coverage for boats and yachts and valuable personal items such as jewelry, and also writes coverages for umbrella liability, identity fraud, and weddings and special events.

International

•Internationalprovides automobile and homeowners and other coverages in Canada (similar to
coverages in the United States). Personal Insurance had approximately 562,000 active policies in Canada at December 31, 2017.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to Personal Insurance as of January 1, 2018. Personal
Insurance generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is an $8.0 million maximum retention per risk, net of reinsurance.
Personal Insurance uses facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Personal Insurance issues umbrella policies up to a maximum
limit of $10.0 million per risk. Personal Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended December 31,
2017:



Location% ofTotalDomestic:New York11.2%Texas(1)9.6Pennsylvania6.1California5.9Georgia4.9Florida4.9New Jersey4.5Virginia3.6Connecticut3.5All other domestic(2)39.1​​​​​Total Domestic93.3​​​​​International:Canada6.7​​​​​Total International6.7​​​​​Total Personal Insurance100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)The
percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer.(2)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums in 2017.

Competition

Domestic

Although national companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) write the majority of this business, Personal
Insurance also faces competition from many regional and hundreds of local companies. Personal Insurance primarily competes based on breadth of product offerings, price, service (including claims
handling), ease and speed of doing business, stability of the insurer and name recognition. Personal Insurance competes for business within each independent agency since these agencies also offer
policies of competing companies. At the agency level, competition is primarily based on price, service (including claims handling), the level of automation and the development of long-term
relationships with individual agents. In recent years, most independent personal insurance agents have begun utilizing price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative
raters," as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Because the use of this technology facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased
price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. Personal Insurance also competes with insurance companies that use exclusive agents or salaried employees to sell their
products, as well as those that employ direct marketing strategies.









International

Personal Insurance competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada. Companies compete on the basis of price, breadth of
product offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in Canada similar to those served in the United States and
provides both automobile and homeowners and other coverages for this market.

See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the
insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability."

CLAIMS MANAGEMENT

The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services organization, with locations in the United States and in the other
countries where it does business. With more than 11,000 employees, Claims Services employs a group of professionals with diverse skills, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys,
investigators, engineers, accountants, nurses, data and analytics professionals, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as
investigators, attorneys and, when necessary, independent adjusters and appraisers, are available for use as appropriate.

United
States field claim management teams located in 20 claim centers and 53 satellite and specialty-only offices in 44 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim
characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company's business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, required licenses, resources and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of
those businesses, with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow
design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits
the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims
management for International, while generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, is also managed by the
Company's Claims Services organization in the United States to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An
integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative
Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts who investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This staff also
has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are reported
to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.

Claims
Services uses technology, management information and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results in order to evaluate and improve its claims
management performance. The Company's claims-management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company
continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a state-of-the-art
claims-training facility which offers hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In recent years, the Company has invested significant additional
resources in many of its claim-handling operations, including the utilization of drone technology, and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent optimization among
outcomes, cost and service.









Claims Services' catastrophe response strategy is to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel, enabling it to minimize reliance on
independent adjusters and appraisers. The Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing employees who can be deployed on
short notice in the event of a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these internal resources were successfully
deployed to respond to a record number of catastrophe claims.

REINSURANCE

For
additional information regarding reinsurance, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A—Risk Factors." For a description of
reinsurance-related litigation, see note 16 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Catastrophe Reinsurance









Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.This treaty covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from
one or multiple
occurrences for the period January 1, 2018 through and including December 31, 2018. The treaty provides for recovery of 75% of the dollar amount of each qualifying loss in excess of a
$3.0 billion retention, up to a maximum amount of qualifying losses of $2.0 billion. Therefore, the maximum recovery under the treaty would be $1.5 billion. Qualifying losses for
each occurrence are after a $100 million deductible. The treaty covers all of the Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their territories and possessions, the Caribbean
Islands, Mexico and all waters contiguous thereto. The treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological,
chemical or radiological attacks.

Catastrophe Bonds.The Company has catastrophe protection through an indemnity reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III Ltd.
(Long Point
Re III), an independent Cayman Islands company licensed as a Class C insurer in the Cayman Islands. The reinsurance agreement expires in May 2018 and meets the requirements to be accounted for
as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with the reinsurance agreement, Long Point Re III issued notes (generally referred to as "catastrophe bonds") to
investors in amounts equal to the full coverage provided under the reinsurance agreement as described below. The proceeds were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The businesses covered by this
reinsurance agreement are subsets of the Company's overall insurance portfolio, comprising specified property coverages spread across the following geographic locations: Connecticut, Delaware,
District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Vermont.

The
reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III provides coverage of up to $300 million to the Company for losses from tropical cyclones, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms or
winter storms in the locations listed above. The attachment point and maximum limit under this agreement are reset annually to adjust the expected loss of the layer within a predetermined range. Until
and including May 15, 2018, the Company is entitled to begin recovering amounts under this reinsurance agreement if the covered losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an
initial attachment amount of $2.346 billion. The full $300 million coverage amount is available on a proportional basis until such covered losses reach a maximum $2.846 billion.
The coverage under the reinsurance agreement is limited to specified property coverage written in Personal Insurance; Select Accounts, Middle Market (excluding Excess Casualty and Boiler &
Machinery) and National Property and Other in Business Insurance; and Bond & Specialty Insurance Other in Bond & Specialty Insurance.

Under
the terms of the reinsurance agreement, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Long Point Re III for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable to the
Company under the reinsurance agreement with respect to any covered event cannot exceed the Company's actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the catastrophe bonds will be reduced by
any amounts paid to the Company under the reinsurance agreement.

As
with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Long Point Re III, the credit risk is mitigated by a
reinsurance trust account that has been funded by Long Point Re III with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations and obligations backed by the U.S. government with
maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor's on the issuance date of the bonds and thereafter
must be rated by Standard & Poor's. Other permissible investments include money market funds which invest in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government
obligations and obligations of any agency backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash.









At
the time the agreement was entered into with Long Point Re III, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs.
Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights
to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity
to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's expected residual
returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements.

As
a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and
(b) above were present. However, while Long Point Re III was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its
results, caused by the reinsurance agreement, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III and residual amounts earned by it, if any, are
expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Long Point Re III).

Accordingly,
the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III and does not consolidate that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally,
because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III, the consolidation of that entity
in the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

The
Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted or are expected to result in a recovery under the Long Point Re III agreement since its inception.

Northeast Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.This treaty provides up to $800 million part of
$850 million of all
perils (coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses from nuclear, biological and radiological attacks), subject to a $2.25 billion retention, from
Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2017 through and including June 30, 2018. Losses from a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere in the United States, Canada, the
Caribbean and Mexico and waters contiguous thereto may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the catastrophe bonds (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to this treaty.

Middle Market Earthquake Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.This treaty provides for up to $150 million part of
$165 million of coverage, subject to an $80 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by
Technology, Public Sector Services and Commercial Accounts in Business Insurance for the period July 1, 2017 through and including June 30, 2018.

Personal Insurance Earthquake Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.This treaty provides for up to $200 million of
coverage, subject
to a $150 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by Personal Insurance for the period
January 1, 2018 through and including December 31, 2018.

Canadian Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.This treaty, effective for the period July 1, 2017 through and
including
June 30, 2018, covers the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence on business written by the Company's Canadian businesses. The treaty covers all property written by
the Company's Canadian businesses for Canadian insureds, including, but not limited to, habitational property, commercial property, inland marine, ocean marine and auto physical damages exposures,
with respect to risks located worldwide, written for Canadian insureds. The treaty provides coverage for 50% of losses in excess of C$100 million (US$80 million at December 31,
2017), up to C$200 million (US$160 million at December 31, 2017) and for 100% of losses in excess of









C$200 million
(US$160 million at December 31, 2017), up to C$600 million (US$479 million at December 31, 2017).

Other International Reinsurance Treaties.For other business underwritten in Canada, as well as for business written in the United
Kingdom, the
Republic of Ireland, Brazil and in the Company's operations at Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the
respective local balance sheet.

Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program is a Federal program administered by the Department of the
Treasury authorized
through December 31, 2020 that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from certified acts of terrorism. For a further description
of the program, including the Company's estimated deductible under the program in 2018, see note 5 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A—Risk
Factors—Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to
raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance."

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES

Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment expenses for
claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.

The
Company continually refines its reserve estimates as part of a regular ongoing process that includes reviews of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience.
The Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated
recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating
reserves and a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates."

The
process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" section of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and the legislative landscape, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment
expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus
occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the
occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The
Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development with respect to reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by
accident year for each business unit, product line and type of exposure. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical
development patterns and the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each product line and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and
environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and
"—Environmental Claims and Litigation."









Certain
of the Company's claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are discounted to present value. See note 7 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for further
discussion.

Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis

At December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves) were $56 million higher, $44 million higher and $41 million higher, respectively, than those reported in the Company's
respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves).

The
differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items: (1) fees associated with billing of
required reimbursements under large deductible business and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty
insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting.
Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive
reinsurance balances are included in reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other
liabilities as contra-liabilities rather than in loss reserves.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group, a
separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation."

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS

Most of the Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement.
Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's statutory capital and surplus rather than just on its own statutory capital and surplus. Under such
arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.

RATINGS

Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the
following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically
issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings, which reflect the rating agency's assessment of an insurer's ability to meet its financial
obligations to policyholders, and debt ratings, which reflect the rating agency's assessment of a company's prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the
setting of interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at
any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to
rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use









both
to evaluate a company's overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's
website and from the agencies.

A
downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company's business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its
products may be reduced, particularly because some customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with it.

Additionally,
a downgrade in one or more of the Company's debt ratings could adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in
the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Company's debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company's revolving
credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 150 basis points, depending on the Company's debt ratings), the Company's commercial
paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements
for a discussion of the Company's revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as
part of the evaluation of the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a one- to two-notch
downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company considers the
impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases.

Claims—Paying Ratings

The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings for each of the Company's rated entities as of
February 15, 2018, including the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.



A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchTravelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b)A++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)Travelers C&S Co. of AmericaA++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.A– (4thof 16)——AA (3rdof 21)Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd.A++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)—Travelers Insurance Company of CanadaA++ (1stof 16)—AA– (4thof 21)—The Dominion of Canada General Insurance CompanyA (3rdof 16)———Travelers Insurance Company LimitedA (3rdof 16)—AA (3rdof 21)—

(a)The
Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers
Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The
Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty
Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company,
Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal
Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, The Travelers Casualty









Company,
St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, Travelers Constitution State Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity
and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.(b)The
following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf
Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.

Debt Ratings

The following table summarizes the current debt, trust preferred securities and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as
of February 15, 2018. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.



A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchSenior debta+ (5thof 22)A2 (6thof 21)A (6thof 22)A (6thof 22)Subordinated debta– (7thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)A– (7thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Junior subordinated debtbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Trust preferred securitiesbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Commercial paperAMB-1+(1stof 6)P-1 (1stof 4)A-1 (2ndof 10)F1 (2ndof 8)

Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 16, 2017, the date on which the Company filed
its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, through February 15, 2018:

•On June 19, 2017, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.•On July 13, 2017, Moody's affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.•On October 5, 2017, A.M. Best affirmed all ratings of the Company, except ratings for Travelers Insurance Company Limited, which
were affirmed on January 12, 2018. The outlook for all ratings is stable. Concurrently with the affirmation of these ratings, A.M. Best withdrew its ratings for The Premier Insurance
Company of Massachusetts at the Company's request.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid, taxable U.S. government,
tax-exempt U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and the Company's investment
purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy its insurance and debt obligations. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced
by the Company's fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company's insurance reserves. The Company's management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio,
including its use of Treasury futures at times, has produced a duration that is less than the estimated duration of the Company's net
insurance liabilities. The substantial amount by which the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly
sold policies and the large amount of high-quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Company's ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities.









The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships
and joint ventures. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See
note 3 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio.

REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation

TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia,
Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which they transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally
derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance in each state and jurisdiction. The regulation, supervision and administration
relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates,
restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. State
insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and
annual basis.

State
insurance regulation continues to evolve in response to the changing economic and business environment as well as efforts by regulators internationally to develop a consistent
approach to regulation. While the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 established a
Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the FIO has limited regulatory authority, it has been active in the discussions to develop international regulatory
standards for the insurance industry. In response to these international efforts, the state insurance regulators, through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), are working with
the Federal Reserve and the FIO to consider and develop changes to the U.S. regulatory framework.

These
changes are evidenced by the incorporation of supervisory colleges into the U.S. regulatory framework. A supervisory college is a forum of the regulators having jurisdictional
authority over a holding company's various insurance subsidiaries, including foreign insurance subsidiaries, convened to meet with the insurer's executive management, to evaluate the insurer from both
a group-wide and legal-entity basis. Some of the items evaluated during the colleges include the insurer's business strategies, enterprise risk management and corporate governance.

While
insurance in the United States is regulated on a legal-entity basis, the NAIC has adopted changes to its Model Holding Company Act that some states, including the State of
Connecticut, have enacted to allow the insurance commissioner to be designated as the group-wide supervisor (i.e., lead regulator) for the insurance holding company system based upon certain
criteria, including the place of domicile of the insurance subsidiaries holding the majority of the insurance group's premiums, assets, or liabilities. Based upon these criteria, the State of
Connecticut Insurance Department is designated as TRV's lead regulator and conducts the supervisory colleges for the Company.

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries.TRV's principal domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
the State of
Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding









company
laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend from an insurance subsidiary that, together with other distributions
made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurance subsidiary's statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurance subsidiary's
net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or
payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The
insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more
restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends.

Rate and Rule Approvals.TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule
approvals.
The applicable laws and regulations generally establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An
insurer's ability to adjust rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each state's requirements. Many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow
insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies.Many states have laws and regulations which may
impact the
timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances
insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state. In addition, all states impose limitations on cancellations or non-renewals of certain
policies, including in particular, limitations on the reasons for cancellations and on the timing of non-renewals.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Assigned Risk and Reinsurance Arrangements.Virtually all
states require
insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers.
Many states also have laws that establish second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

TRV's
domestic insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance,
property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes and Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) plans, as well as automobile assigned risk plans the results of which are not
pooled with other carriers, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market.

Assessments
may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, various workers' compensation related
funds (e.g., the Florida Special Disability Trust), North Carolina Beach Plan, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable
or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for
as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a
component of "General and Administrative Expenses," such as the Florida Special Disability Trust. For









additional
information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory assigned risk and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see
"Item 1A—Risk Factors."

Insurance Regulatory Information System.The NAIC developed the Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) to help state regulators
identify
companies that may require regulatory attention. Financial examiners review annual financial statements and the results of key financial ratios based on year-end data with the goal of identifying
insurers that appear to require immediate regulatory attention. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual
range, however, is not necessarily considered adverse; rather, unusual values are used as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for
financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company may become subject to regulatory scrutiny or, depending on the company's
financial condition, regulatory action if certain of its key IRIS ratios fall outside the usual ranges and the insurer's financial condition is trending downward.

Based
on preliminary 2017 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company for its lead domestic insurance subsidiaries, The Travelers Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for one
IRIS ratio due to the size of its investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities, while Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the
amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries. In 2016, The Travelers Indemnity Company and Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for these same ratios.
Additionally, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio in 2016 due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries.

Management
does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2017 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior
years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required.

Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements.The NAIC has an RBC requirement which sets forth minimum capital standards for most property and
casualty
insurance companies and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. The Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to these NAIC RBC requirements based on laws
that have been adopted by individual states. These requirements subject insurers having policyholders' surplus less than that required by the RBC calculation to varying degrees of regulatory action,
depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Each of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries had policyholders' surplus at December 31, 2017 significantly above the level at which any RBC
regulatory action would occur.

While
there is currently no group regulatory capital requirement in the United States, a comparison of an insurer's policyholders' surplus on a combined basis to the legal entity NAIC
RBC requirements on a combined basis can provide useful information regarding an insurance group's overall capital adequacy in the U.S. The amount of policyholders' surplus held by the Company's U.S.
insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 2017, determined on a combined basis, significantly exceeded the level at which the subsidiaries would be subject to RBC regulatory action (company action
level) on a combined basis at that date.

The
formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital above the RBC requirement. Therefore, it is inappropriate
and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies.

Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality
and
concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments,









subject
to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2017, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations.

International Regulation

TRV's insurance subsidiaries based in Canada, and the Canadian branch of one of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are regulated for
solvency purposes by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) under the provisions of the Insurance Companies Act (Canada). These Canadian subsidiaries and the Canadian branch
are also subject to Canadian provincial and territorial insurance legislation which regulates market conduct, including pricing, underwriting, coverage and claim conduct, in varying degrees by
province/territory and by product line.

TRV's
insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by two regulatory bodies, The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
PRA's primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate
degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers.
TRV's insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are conducted through the Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which is supervised by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the
Central Bank of Ireland (as to conduct) and also by the PRA.

TRV's
managing agency (Travelers Syndicate Management Limited) (TSML) of its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000) is also regulated by the PRA and the FCA, which have delegated certain
regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's. Travelers Syndicate 5000 is able to write business in over 75 jurisdictions throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In
each such jurisdiction,
the policies written by TSML, as part of Lloyd's, are subject to the laws and insurance regulations of that jurisdiction. Travelers Underwriting Agency Limited, which as an insurance intermediary is
regulated by the FCA, produces insurance business for Travelers Syndicate 5000.

TRV's
operations in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland are also subject to regulation by the European Union (EU). Generally, EU requirements are adopted by the EU and then implemented
by enabling legislation in the member countries. Significant areas of oversight and influence from the EU include capital and solvency requirements (Solvency II), competition law and antitrust
regulation, intermediary and distribution regulation, gender discrimination and data security and privacy. The applicability to TRV's businesses of all of the EU requirements are likely to change in
ways yet to be determined as a result of the U.K.'s exit from the EU, which is currently expected to be effective in March 2019. The Company announced in December 2017 that it applied to the Central
Bank of Ireland for authorization of a new wholly owned insurance subsidiary to be incorporated in the Republic of Ireland to serve its customers and broking partners in Ireland and across Europe upon
the U.K.'s exit from the EU.

A
TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. A TRV
subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. TRV's Brazilian operations
are regulated by the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados (SUSEP).

Regulators
in these jurisdictions require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on, among other things, the type and amount of insurance policies in force.
Each of the Company's foreign insurance subsidiaries had capital above their respective regulatory requirements at December 31, 2017.









United States and European Union Covered Agreement

On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) signed a
covered agreement (the Covered Agreement) regarding prudential (solvency) insurance and reinsurance measures with the EU. The Covered Agreement includes three areas of prudential insurance supervision
related to: reinsurance contracts,
group supervision, and the exchange of information between U.S. and EU insurers and the respective insurance regulators. The EU is expected to finalize approval of the Covered Agreement in the first
half of 2018.

The
Covered Agreement is intended to promote cooperation between the U.S. and EU insurance regulators, and limits the ability of the EU to apply solvency and group capital requirements
to the worldwide operations of any U.S. insurer operating in the EU. The Covered Agreement eliminates the collateral and local presence requirements for EU reinsurers operating in the U.S. insurance
market, and for U.S. reinsurers operating in the EU, as a condition for credit for reinsurance in regulatory reporting and capital requirements. The prospective elimination of the collateral
requirement is conditioned on the reinsurer meeting capital and solvency standards and maintaining a record of prompt payments to ceding insurers. The Covered Agreement includes a five-year transition
period to full compliance.

Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is
subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws,
require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other
things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control.Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance
approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The
laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted to transact
business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease-and-desist orders with respect
to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any
transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in
which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions
and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two
of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions,
including approval of the PRA and FCA. TRV's insurance subsidiaries domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada are also subject to regulatory change of control restrictions,
including approval of OSFI. TRV's Brazilian operations are subject to regulatory change of control and other share transfer restrictions, including approval of SUSEP.









These
requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's
shareholders.

Regulatory Developments

For a discussion of domestic and international regulatory developments, see "Item 1A—Risk Factors" including "Changes in
federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results" and "Regulatory changes outside of the United States, including in Canada, the U.K. and the
European Union, could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth."

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the environments
within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material
effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of
the Company's operations. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Company's
stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad
range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the Company's risk capital needs, which takes into
account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors.

ERM
at the Company is an integral part of its business operations. All corporate leaders and the Board of Directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk-based analytics, as well as
reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The
Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its
exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. The Company also utilizes proprietary and
third-party computer modeling processes to evaluate capital adequacy. These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term
financial strategies and objectives.

In
addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's operations, key internal risk management functions include, among others, the Management and Operating Committees
(comprised of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Business Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, Chief Legal
Officer, General Counsel, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Corporate Controller group, the Accounting Policy group and the
Enterprise Underwriting group, among others. A senior executive team comprised of the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Underwriting Officer oversees the ERM process. The mission of this team is to
facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this team includes working across the
Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall
effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, which reviews the strategies,









processes
and controls pertaining to the Company's insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company's ERM program. The Risk Committee of the Board of
Directors meets with senior management at least four times a year to discuss ERM activities and provides a report to the full Board of Directors after each such meeting.

The
Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations,
reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on value
creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system
must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the
Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in
"Item 1A—Risk Factors," "Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "Item 8—Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."

OTHER INFORMATION

Customer Concentration

In the opinion of the Company's management, no material part of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a single
customer or group of customers, the loss
of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts for 10% or more of the Company's consolidated revenues.

Employees

At December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 30,800 employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory.
None of the Company's U.S. employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

Sources of Liquidity

For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the long-term debt of the Company, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and note 8 of notes to the
consolidated financial statements.

Taxation

For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, including recently enacted federal tax reform, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and note 12 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments

For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.









Intellectual Property

The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect its
intellectual property. With respect to trademarks specifically, the Company has registrations in many countries, including the United States, for its material trademarks, including the "Travelers"
name and the Company's iconic umbrella logo. The Company has the right to retain its material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of all
applicable countries. The Company regards its trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing its products and services and vigorously seeks to protect its trademarks against infringement. See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—Intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject
to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others."

Company Website, Social Media and Availability of SEC Filings

The Company's internet website iswww.travelers.com. Information on the Company's website is not
incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to the Company's Annual Report
on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the Company's website
and under the "For Investors" heading, click on "Financial Information" then "SEC Filings."

The
Company may use its website and/or social media outlets, such as Facebook and Twitter, as distribution channels of material company information. Financial and other important
information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible through the Company's website athttp://investor.travelers.com, its Facebook
page athttps://www.facebook.com/travelersand its Twitter account (@Travelers) athttps://www.twitter.com/Travelers. In addition, you may automatically
receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your
email address by visiting the "Email Notifications" section under the "For Investors" heading athttp://investor.travelers.com.

Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms



Accident yearThe annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.Adjusted unassigned surplusUnassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year's unrealized
appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.Admitted insurerA company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.AgentA licensed individual who sells and services insurance policies, receiving a commission from the insurer for selling the
business and a fee for servicing it. An independent agent represents multiple insurance companies and searches the market for the best product for its client.AnnuityA contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or more
persons or for a specified period of time.













Assigned risk poolsReinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible reasons for this inability
include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their direct writings.

Assumed reinsuranceInsurance risks acquired from a ceding company.

Book value per shareTotal common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.

BrokerOne who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission from the
insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.

CapacityThe percentage of statutory capital and surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing
or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.

CaptiveA closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company's owners or their
affiliates.

Case reservesClaim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported
claim.

Casualty insuranceInsurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and
the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers' liability, workers' compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance. It excludes
certain types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.

CatastropheA severe loss designated a catastrophe by internationally recognized organizations that track and report on insured losses
resulting from catastrophic events, such as Property Claim Services (PCS) for events in the United States and Canada. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms,
earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and other naturally-occurring events, such as solar flares. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive
acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount.
Their effects are included in net and core income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.













The Company's threshold for disclosing catastrophes is primarily determined at the reportable segment level. If a threshold for one segment
or a combination thereof is exceeded and the other segments have losses from the same event, losses from the event are identified as catastrophe losses in the segment results and for the consolidated results of the Company. Additionally, an aggregate
threshold is applied for International business across all reportable segments. The threshold for 2017 ranged from approximately $17 million to $30 million of losses before reinsurance and taxes.

Catastrophe lossLoss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes, as well as related reinsurance reinstatement
premiums and assessments from various pools.

Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess-of-loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of
loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses and related reinsurance reinstatement premiums resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a "catastrophe cover." These reinsurance
contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers' compensation policies.

Cede; ceding companyWhen an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a "cession," it "cedes" business and is referred to as the
"ceding company."

Ceded reinsuranceInsurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

ClaimRequest by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured peril.

Claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss" and "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expense reservesSee "Loss reserves."

CohortA group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example, all claims
for a given product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.

Combined ratioFor Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP), the combined ratio is the sum of the SAP loss and LAE ratio and the SAP
underwriting expense ratio as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The combined ratio as used in this report is the equivalent of, and is calculated in the same manner as, the SAP combined ratio except that
the SAP underwriting expense ratio is based on netwrittenpremium and the underwriting expense ratio as used in this report is based on netearnedpremiums.













The combined ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline, efficiency in acquiring and servicing its business and overall
underwriting profitability. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Commercial multi-peril policiesRefers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.

Commutation agreementAn agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in exchange for a
complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.

Core income (loss)Consolidated net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued
operations, the effect of a change in tax laws and tax rates at enactment date, and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable. Financial statement users consider core income when analyzing the results and trends of
insurance companies.

Debt-to-total capital ratioThe ratio of debt to total capitalization.

Debt-to-total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investmentsThe ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses
included in shareholders' equity.

DeductibleThe amount of loss that an insured retains.

Deferred acquisition costs (DAC)Incremental direct costs of acquired and renewal insurance contracts, consisting of commissions (other than contingent
commissions) and premium-related taxes that are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).

DeficiencyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are
insufficient to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as new
information becomes available.

Demand surgeSignificant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials
and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.













Direct written premiumsThe amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of an insurance contract. The
amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded.

Earned premiums or premiums earnedThat portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums
are recognized as revenues under both SAP and GAAP.

Excess and surplus lines insuranceInsurance for risks not covered by standard insurance due to the unique nature of the risk. Risks could be placed in excess
and surplus lines markets due to any number of characteristics, such as loss experience, unique or unusual exposures, or insufficient experience in business. Excess and surplus lines are less regulated by the states, allowing greater flexibility to
design specific insurance coverage and negotiate pricing based on the risks to be secured.

Excess liabilityAdditional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.

Excess-of-loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar amount or
"retention."

ExposureThe measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product. The change in exposure is the amount of change in premium
on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.

Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately
negotiated.

Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) PlanA residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through the regular
(voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see "residual market (involuntary business)."

Fidelity and surety programsFidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee.
Surety is a three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a third party or complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.

Gross written premiumsThe direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the
contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.

Ground-up analysisA method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line component. It
involves analyzing the exposure and claim activity at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses for the cohort
are then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.













In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the larger insureds, with the costs
for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured analysis).

Guaranteed-cost productsAn insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the covered
period.

Guaranty fundA state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should insolvencies
occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer's obligations to policyholders.

Holding company liquidityTotal cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reservesReserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes amounts
for unreported claims, development on known cases, and re-opened claims.

Inland marineA broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well as bridges,
 tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and
others.

IRIS ratiosFinancial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial condition of
insurance companies.

Large deductible policyAn insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is responsible
for paying the entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.

Lloyd'sAn insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks, deal with
Lloyd's underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.

LossAn occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from
coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.

Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim
settlement costs.













Loss and LAE ratioFor SAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses less certain administrative services fee
income to net earned premiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The loss and LAE ratio as used in this report is calculated in the same manner as the SAP ratio.

The loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or
reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document, "loss reserves"
is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.

Loss reserve developmentThe increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and
claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.

Losses incurredThe total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred losses
include a provision for IBNR.

National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the five U.S.
territories organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.

Net written premiumsDirect written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.

New business volumeThe amount of written premiums related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing
policyholders.

PoolAn organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums, losses
and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.

PremiumsThe amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance
company.

Probable maximum loss (PML)The maximum amount of loss that the Company would be expected to incur on a policy if a loss were to occur, giving effect
to collateral, reinsurance and other factors.













Property insuranceInsurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for that person's or business's
property loss, damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsuranceReinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for each policy
covered on a pro rata basis.

RatesAmounts charged per unit of insurance.

RedundancyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are
greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy exists) may
change as new information becomes available.

Reinstatement premiumsAdditional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured
losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.

ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to
indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreementA contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.

Renewal premium changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes. Such statistics are
subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates.

Renewal rate changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes. Such statistics are subject to
change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates.

Residual market (involuntary business)Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of available coverage such
as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers' compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in proportion to the carriers'
voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.

RetentionThe amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance
policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.













Retention rateThe percentage of prior period premiums (excluding renewal premium changes), accounts or policies available for renewal in the current
period that were renewed. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates.

Retrospective premiumsPremiums related to retrospectively rated policies.

Retrospective ratingA plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss experience,
subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.

Return on equityThe ratio of net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity.

Risk-based capital (RBC)A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory policyholders' surplus
requirements of insurers. Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

Risk retention groupAn alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self insure their
risks.

Runoff businessAn operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a cessation of
writing new business, where allowed by law.

SalvageThe amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a loss
payment.

S-curve methodA mathematical function which depicts an initial slow change, followed by a rapid change and then ending in a slow change
again. This results in an "S" shaped line when depicted graphically. The actuarial application of these curves fit the reported data to date for a particular cohort of claims to an S-curve to project future activity for that cohort.

Second-injury fundThe employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers' compensation benefit for the most recent
injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self-insureds
based on either premiums or losses.

Segment income (loss)Determined in the same manner as core income (loss) on a segment basis. Management uses segment income (loss) to analyze
each segment's performance and as a tool in making business decisions. Financial statement users also consider segment income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.

Self-insured retentionsThat portion of the risk retained by a person for its own account.

Servicing carrierAn insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and customer
service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.













Statutory accounting practices (SAP)The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in the United States for
recording transactions and preparing financial statements. SAP generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.

Statutory capital and surplusThe excess of an insurance company's admitted assets over its liabilities, including loss reserves, as determined in
accordance with SAP. Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Statutory capital and surplus is also referred to as "statutory surplus" or "policyholders'
surplus."

Statutory net incomeAs determined under SAP, total revenues less total expenses and income taxes.

Structured settlementsPeriodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in settlement of
a claim under a liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.

SubrogationA principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim under a
policy, to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.

Tenure impactAs new business volume increases and accounts for a greater percentage of earned premiums, the loss and LAE ratio generally
worsens initially, as the loss and LAE ratio for new business is generally higher than the ratio for business that has been retained for longer periods. As poorer performing business leaves and pricing segmentation improves on renewal of the business
that is retained, the loss and LAE ratio is expected to improve in future years.

Third-party liabilityA liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract. Insured liability
claims are referred to as third-party claims.

Total capitalizationThe sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.

Treaty reinsuranceThe reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a "treaty") between a primary
insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks originally written
by the primary insurer or reinsured.

Umbrella coverageA form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies or amounts
not covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned surplusThe undistributed and unappropriated amount of statutory capital and surplus.













Underlying combined ratioThe underlying combined ratio is the sum of the underlying loss and LAE ratio and the underlying underwriting expense ratio. The underlying
combined ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying loss and LAE ratioThe underlying loss and LAE ratio is the loss and LAE ratio, adjusted to exclude the impact of catastrophes and prior year
reserve development. The underlying loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying underwriting expense ratioThe underlying underwriting expense ratio is the underwriting expense ratio adjusted to exclude the impact of
catastrophes.

Underlying underwriting marginNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses (excluding catastrophe losses and prior year
reserve development) and insurance-related expenses.

UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge
an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.

UnderwritingThe insurer's or reinsurer's process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to whether to
accept all or part of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.

Underwriting expense ratioFor SAP, the underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred (including commissions paid), less
certain administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to netwrittenpremiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The underwriting expense
ratio as used in this report is the ratio of underwriting expenses (including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs), less certain administrative services fee income, billing and policy fees and other, to netearnedpremiums.

The underwriting expense ratio is an indicator of the Company's efficiency in acquiring and servicing its
business.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Underwriting gain or lossNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.

Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.

Voluntary marketThe market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market
mechanisms.











Wholesale brokerAn independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and non-admitted insurers in market areas, which include standard,
non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker.Workers' compensationA system (established under state and federal laws) under which employers provide insurance for benefit payments to their
employees for work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault.

