Item 1.    BUSINESS

The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally
engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and
individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the state of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back
to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and the telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company
also maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut,
and St. Paul, Minnesota. The term "TRV" in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

For
a summary of the Company's revenues, operating income and total assets by reportable business segments, see note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent
relationships and method of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of independent agents, exclusive agents, direct marketing (including use of toll-free numbers and the
internet) and/or salaried employees. According to A.M. Best, there are approximately 997 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,400 property and casualty
companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 92% of the consolidated industry's total net written premiums in 2008. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers.
In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional
insurance products. These products include large deductible programs, and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The
Company's competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including the following:

•premiums charged;•contract terms and conditions;•products and services offered;•claim service;•agent, broker and client relationships;•local presence;•geographic scope of business;•overall financial strength;•ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•experience and qualifications of employees; and•technology and information systems.

In
addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by policyholders' surplus, and the availability of reinsurance. Industry capacity as
measured by surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase a company's surplus.









Pricing and Underwriting

Pricing of the Company's property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses,
the expenses of producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money associated with such loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable allowance for profit. The
Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes profitable growth rather than premium volume or market share. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The applicable state laws and regulations establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly
discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price competition. The Company's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements,
as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2009:

State% ofTotalNew York9.6%California9.3Texas7.5Pennsylvania5.1Florida4.3New Jersey4.0Illinois3.7Massachusetts3.7Georgia3.2All other domestic(1)43.2Total domestic93.6International6.4Consolidated total100.0%

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2009 by the Company's domestic operations.

Catastrophe Exposure

The wide geographic distribution of the Company's property and casualty insurance operations exposes it to claims arising out of
catastrophes. The Company continually monitors its exposure to natural and man-made peril catastrophic losses and attempts to manage such exposure. The Company uses various analyses and
methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to analyze underwriting risks of business in natural catastrophe prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorism. The
Company relies, in part, upon this analysis to make underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. The Company limits the writing of new property and
homeowners business, and each of the Company's reportable business segments have selectively taken underwriting action on existing business in some markets. In addition, in recent years, each segment
has also tightened underwriting standards, implemented price increases in some catastrophe-prone areas and put in place deductibles specific to hurricane-, wind- and hail-prone
areas. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—











Catastrophe
Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions." The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See "—Reinsurance."

The
Company is organized into three reportable business segments: Business Insurance; Financial, Professional & International Insurance; and Personal Insurance.

BUSINESS INSURANCE

The Business Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its clients
primarily in the United States. Business Insurance is organized into the following six groups, which collectively comprise Business Insurance Core operations:

•

Select Accountsserves small businesses for property and casualty
products, including commercial multi-peril, property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

Commercial Accountsserves mid-sized businesses for property
and casualty products, including property, general liability, commercial multi-peril, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.

•

National Accountscomprises three business units. The largest provides
casualty products and services to large companies, with particular emphasis on workers' compensation, general liability and automobile liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive
products such as collateralized deductibles or self-insured programs. National Accounts also includes Discover Re, which provides property and casualty insurance products on an unbundled
basis using third-party administrators for insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. In addition, National Accounts includes
the commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers' compensation products and services to the involuntary market.

•

Industry-Focused Underwriting.

The following units serve
targeted industries with differentiated combinations of insurance coverage, risk management, claims handling and other services:



•

Constructionserves a broad range of construction businesses, offering
guaranteed cost products for small to mid-sized policyholders and loss sensitive programs for larger accounts. For the larger accounts, the customer and the Company work together in
actively managing and controlling exposure and claims, and they share risk through policy features such as deductibles or retrospective rating. Products offered include workers' compensation, general
liability, umbrella and commercial auto coverages, and other risk management solutions.

•

Technologyserves small to large companies involved in telecommunications,
information technology, medical technology and electronics manufacturing, offering a comprehensive portfolio of products and services. These products include property, commercial auto, general
liability, workers' compensation, umbrella, internet liability, technology errors and omissions coverages and global companion products.

•

Public Sector Servicesmarkets insurance products and services to public
entities including municipalities, counties, Indian Nation gaming organizations and selected special government districts such as water and sewer utilities. The policies written by this unit typically
cover property, commercial auto, general liability and errors and omissions exposures.

•

Oil & Gasprovides specialized property and liability products and
services for customers involved in the exploration and production of oil and natural gas, including operators and drilling contractors, as well as various service and supply companies and
manufacturers that









support
upstream operations. The policies written by this business group cover risks including physical damage, liability and business interruption.•Agribusinessserves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses,
including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations, offering property and liability coverages other than workers' compensation.

•

Target Risk Underwriting.

The following units serve
commercial businesses requiring specialized product underwriting, claims handling and risk management services:



•

National Propertyprovides traditional and customized property insurance
programs to large and mid-sized customers, including office building owners, manufacturers, municipalities and schools, retailers and service businesses. These insurance programs cover
losses on buildings, business personal property and business interruption exposures.

•

Inland Marineprovides insurance for goods in transit and movable objects
for customers such as jewelers, museums, contractors and the transportation industry. Builders' risk insurance is also offered to customers during the construction, renovation or repair of buildings
and other structures.

•

Ocean Marineserves the marine transportation industry and related
services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade. The Company's product offerings in this unit fall under six main coverage categories: marine liability, cargo, hull and
machinery, protection and indemnity, pleasure craft, and marine property and liability.

•

Excess Casualtyserves small to mid-sized commercial
businesses, offering mono-line umbrella and excess coverage where the Company typically does not write the primary casualty coverage, or where other business units within the Company
prefer to access the underwriting expertise and/or limit capacity of the Excess Casualty business unit.

•

Boiler & Machineryserves small to large companies, offering
comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages. Through the BoilerRe unit, Boiler & Machinery also serves other property and casualty
carriers that do not have in-house expertise with reinsurance, underwriting, engineering, claim handling and risk management services for this type of coverage.

•

Global Accountsprovides insurance to U.S. companies with foreign property
and liability exposures (home-foreign) and foreign organizations with property and liability exposures located in the United States (reverse-flow), as part of a global program.

•

Specialized Distribution.The following units market and
underwrite their products to customers predominantly through licensed wholesale, general and program agents that manage customers' unique insurance requirements:•Northlandprovides insurance coverage for the commercial transportation
industry, as well as commercial liability and package policies for small, difficult to place specialty classes of commercial business on an admitted or excess and surplus lines basis.•National Programsoffers tailored property and casualty programs on an
admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements. Programs available include those for entertainment, architects and engineers, equipment rental, golf services
and owners of franchised businesses.

Business
Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and certain international
and other runoff operations, which are collectively referred to as Business Insurance Other. In December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica),
which comprised











its
United Kingdom-based runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. The sale was not material to the Company's results of operations or financial position.

Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Business Insurance net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the markets and product lines
referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)200920082007% of Total2009By market:Select Accounts$2,756$2,756$2,71125.3%Commercial Accounts2,4932,5242,51822.9National Accounts9029961,0568.3Industry-Focused Underwriting2,2792,3962,30120.9Target Risk Underwriting1,5681,5931,66514.4Specialized Distribution8899391,0158.1Total Business Insurance Core10,88711,20411,26699.9Business Insurance Other1516520.1Total Business Insurance by market$10,902$11,220$11,318100.0%By product line:Commercial multi-peril$2,933$2,938$3,06626.9%Workers' compensation2,4862,4522,26722.8Commercial automobile1,9271,9522,01117.7Property1,7271,8601,99015.8General liability1,8292,0111,94316.8Other—741—Total Business Insurance by product line$10,902$11,220$11,318100.0%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Business Insurance distributes its products through approximately 9,600 independent agencies and brokers located throughout the United
States that are serviced by approximately 120 field offices and three customer service centers. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology utilizing
internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with independent agencies and brokers. Business Insurance builds relationships with well-established,
independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or
broker's financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully monitors its
performance. The majority of products offered by the Select Accounts, Commercial Accounts, Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target-Risk Underwriting groups are distributed through a
common base of independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance products. Additionally, the Industry-Focused Underwriting and Target Risk Underwriting groups may
underwrite business with agents that specialize in servicing the needs of certain of the industries served by these groups.

Select Accountsis a leading provider of property and casualty insurance products to small businesses. It serves firms with generally
fewer than 50 employees. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures.











Each
small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of small business risks at their
desktop. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel. Select Accounts also offers its independent agents options to connect aspects of sales and
service, including agency automation capabilities and service centers that function as an extension of an agency's customer service operations.

Commercial Accountssells a broad range of property and casualty insurance products through a large network of independent agents and
brokers. Commercial Accounts primarily targets mid-sized businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees. The Company offers a full line of products to its Commercial Accounts customers with an
emphasis on guaranteed cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed
level allows Commercial Accounts to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base.

National Accountsis comprised of three business units. The largest unit sells a variety of casualty products and services to large
companies. National Accounts clients for the most part select loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a
retrospectively rated or a guaranteed cost insurance policy. Many National Accounts customers require insurance-related services in addition to or in lieu of pure risk coverage, primarily for workers'
compensation and, to a lesser extent, general liability and commercial automobile exposures. These types of services include risk management services, such as claims administration, loss control and
risk management information services, and are generally offered in connection with large deductible or self-insured programs. These services generate fee income rather than net written
premiums. Through a network of field offices, the Company's underwriting specialists work closely with national and regional brokers to tailor insurance programs to meet clients' needs. Workers'
compensation accounted for approximately 76% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2009, based on direct written premiums and fees. National Accounts generated $186 million of fee
income in 2009, excluding commercial residual market business discussed below.

National
Accounts includes the Company's Discover Re operation, which principally provides commercial auto liability, general liability, workers' compensation and property coverages on
an unbundled basis using third-party administrators for insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. It serves retail brokers
and insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance.

In
addition, National Accounts includes the Company's commercial residual market business. The Company's commercial residual market business sells claims and policy management services
to workers' compensation pools throughout the United States. The Company services approximately 32% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market. The Company is one of very few servicing
carriers that operate nationally. Assigned risk plan contracts, whereby the Company services other insurance carriers' involuntary business, generated $75 million in fee income in 2009.

Industry-Focused Underwritingmarkets a wide array of property and casualty products and services tailored to targeted industry segments.
Unique marketing and underwriting groups are focused on individual industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other
insurance-related products and services. The following Industry-Focused units, which are described in more detail earlier in this report, have been established: Construction, Technology, Public Sector
Services, Oil & Gas, and Agribusiness.

Target Risk Underwritingservices a wide customer base with unique and specialized insurance products and services. These specialized
units have expertise in meeting customers' specialized property and casualty coverage requirements. These units include National Property, Inland Marine, Ocean











Marine,
Excess Casualty, Boiler & Machinery, and Global Accounts, which are described in more detail earlier in this report.

Specialized Distributiondistributes admitted and excess and surplus lines property and casualty products predominantly through selected
wholesale agents, both on a brokerage and managing general underwriting basis, and through selected program agents. Brokers, general agents and program agents operate in certain markets that are not
typically served by the Company's appointed retail agents, or they maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is
characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with wholesale or program agents on a brokerage basis,
Specialized Distribution underwrites the business and sets the premium level. In working with wholesale or program agents on a managing general underwriting or program manager basis, the agents
produce and underwrite business subject to underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.

Pricing and Underwriting

Business Insurance has developed an underwriting and pricing methodology that incorporates underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial
and product development disciplines for particular industries. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting and
pricing discipline. It utilizes proprietary data gathered and analyzed with respect to its Business Insurance business over many years. The underwriters and engineers use this information to assess
and evaluate risks prior to quotation. This information provides specialized knowledge about specific industry segments. This methodology enables Business Insurance to streamline its risk selection
process and develop pricing parameters that will not compromise its underwriting integrity.

For
smaller businesses meeting pre-determined exposure characteristics and thresholds, Select Accounts utilizes an automated underwriting system that enables agents to issue
a significant number of policies at their desktop.

Product Lines

Commercial Multi-Perilprovides a combination of property and liability coverage.
Property insurance covers damages such as those caused by fire, wind, hail, earthquake, water, theft, vandalism and terrorism, and protects businesses from financial loss due to business interruption
resulting from a covered loss. Liability coverage insures businesses against third party claims arising from accidents











occurring
on their premises or arising out of their operations, such as injuries sustained from products sold.

Workers' Compensationprovides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to
employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The
Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that focuses on the injured employee's early return to work
and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers' compensation products:

•guaranteed cost insurance products, in which policy premium charges are fixed for the period of coverage and do not vary
as a result of the insured's loss experience;•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which
fees or premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period;•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees
rather than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements.

The
Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.

Commercial Automobileprovides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third
parties, property damage to an insured's vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.

Propertyprovides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from natural disasters, including hurricanes,
windstorms, earthquakes, hail, and severe winter weather. Also covered are man-made events such as theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss due to business
interruption resulting from covered property damage. For additional information on terrorism coverages, see "Reinsurance—Catastrophe Reinsurance—Terrorism Risk Insurance Acts."
Property also includes specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine, which
provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

General Liabilityprovides coverage for liability exposures including bodily injury and property damage arising from products sold and
general business operations. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices liability
insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and
others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Business Insurance segment as of January 1,
2010. For third party liability, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $18.8 million per insured, per occurrence after the
Company retains an aggregate layer of expected losses. The net retained amount per risk for property exposures is generally limited to $15.0 million, after reinsurance. The Company











generally
retains its workers' compensation exposures. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are
reached. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts greater than those
described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2009:

State% ofTotalCalifornia12.7%New York7.9Texas7.7Illinois4.6Florida4.5Pennsylvania4.3New Jersey3.7Massachusetts3.7All others(1)50.9Total100.0%

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2009 by the Business Insurance segment.

Competition

The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other
entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for
insurance products and the level of service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to provide insurance and services,
including claims handling and risk control services, at a price and on terms that are reasonable and acceptable to the customer, as well as its ability to retain existing customers and to attract new
customers.

Select
Accounts business is typically written through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers and direct writers. Both national and regional property and casualty
insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower hazard, "main street" business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry practices
and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on product offerings, service levels, ease of doing business and price. Select
Accounts has established a strong marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies, a broad array of products, competitive prices
and a highly efficient, automated platform that significantly reduces the time period between quoting a price on a policy and issuing that policy. In addition, the Company has established centralized
service centers to help agents perform many service functions, in return for a fee.









Commercial
Accounts business has historically been principally written through independent agents and brokers. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty
insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price
and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and rapid response time to customer needs is key to success in this market.

The
National Accounts group is comprised of three business units:

•National Accounts business is typically written through national brokers and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers.
Insurance companies compete in this market based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems and collateral
requirements. National Accounts also offers a large network of localized claim service centers which allows National Accounts the flexibility to respond more quickly to the needs of its customers.•Discover Re competes with traditional providers of commercial insurance coverages, as well as other underwriters of
property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as risk retention groups, self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a variety of other
risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms.•National Accounts' residual market business competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services.
These contracts, which generally have three-year terms, are selected by state agencies through a bid process based on the quality of service and price. National Accounts services
approximately 32% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry.

There
are several other business groups in Business Insurance that compete in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry
knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, and partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these business groups compete
with national carriers with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Each of these business groups has regional structures that
allow them to deliver personalized service and local knowledge to their customer base. Specialized agents and brokers, including managing general agents and wholesale agents, supplement this strategy.
In all of these business groups, the competitive strategy is market leadership attained through focused industry knowledge applied to insurance and risk needs.

FINANCIAL, PROFESSIONAL & INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE

The Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment includes surety and financial liability coverages, which primarily
use credit-based underwriting processes, as well as property and casualty products that are primarily marketed on a domestic basis in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, and on an
international basis through Lloyd's. The segment includes the following groups:

•Bond & Financial Productsprovides a wide range of customers with
bond and insurance products and risk management services. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general commercial
enterprises; management liability for losses caused by the negligence or misconduct of directors and officers, employee dishonesty, employment practices liability and fiduciary coverages for public
corporations, private companies and not-for-profit organizations; professional liability from errors and omissions committed in the course of professional conduct or practice
for a variety of professionals including lawyers, design professionals and real estate agents; and professional and









management
liability, property, auto and general liability and fidelity insurance for financial institutions, with a special focus on community banks.•Internationalincludes business written through domestic operations in the
United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland and business written as a corporate member at Lloyd's. International, through its operations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of
Ireland, offers specialized insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including those in the technology, public services, and financial and professional services industry
sectors. In addition, in the Republic of Ireland, the Company writes personal automobile coverage and has recently started writing personal household coverages. International, through its Lloyd's
syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, underwrites through five principal business units—marine, global property, accident & special risks,
power & utilities and aviation.

In
the second quarter of 2009, results from the Company's surety bond operation in Canada were reclassified from the Bond & Financial Products group to the International group to
reflect the manner in which this operation is now managed. All prior period amounts were restated to reflect this reclassification between groups within the segment. The reclassification had no impact
on previously reported results for the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment in total.

Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Financial, Professional & International Insurance net written premiums by market and product line
for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product
Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)200920082007% of Total2009By market:Bond & Financial Products$2,040$2,126$2,12362.1%International1,2451,3421,34237.9Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by market$3,285$3,468$3,465100.0%By product line:Fidelity and surety$1,000$1,070$1,04630.4%General liability90692194227.6International1,2451,3421,34237.9Other1341351354.1Total Financial, Professional & International Insurance by product line$3,285$3,468$3,465100.0%

In
March 2007, the Company completed the sale of its Mexican surety subsidiary, Afianzadora Insurgentes, S.A. de C.V., which accounted for $25 million of net written
premiums for the year ended December 31, 2007. The impact of this transaction was not material to the Company's results of operations or financial position.

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Within the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment, Bond & Financial Products distributes the vast
majority of its products in the United States through approximately 5,700 of the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute the Business Insurance segment's products.











These
brokers and independent agencies are located throughout the United States. Bond & Financial Products, in conjunction with the Business Insurance segment, continues to make investments in
enhanced technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers. Bond & Financial Products builds
relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Financial
Products considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or
broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely monitored. In addition, Bond & Financial Products sells its surety products through independent agents using a subsidiary in the United
Kingdom.

The
International market distributes its products principally through brokers in the domestic markets of each of the three countries in which it operates, the United Kingdom, Canada and
the Republic of Ireland. It also writes business at Lloyd's, where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses, Financial,
Professional & International Insurance has access to international markets across the world.

Pricing and Underwriting

Financial, Professional & International Insurance has developed underwriting and pricing methodologies that incorporate
dedicated underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting and pricing discipline, based on an
in-depth knowledge of the specific account, industry or country. Underwriters use industry and proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years to assess and evaluate risks prior to
quotation, and then use proprietary forms (for non-Lloyd's and non-surety markets) to tailor insurance coverage to insureds within target markets. This methodology enables
Financial, Professional & International Insurance to streamline its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters that will preserve its underwriting integrity.

Product Lines

Fidelity and Suretyprovides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for
loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in
response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured. Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other
performance bonds.

General Liabilityprovides coverage for liability exposures including bodily injury and property damage arising from products sold and
general business operations. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices liability
insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and
others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

Internationalprovides coverage through domestic operations in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland, and through the
Company's operations at Lloyd's. The coverage provided in those markets includes employers' liability (similar to workers' compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability
(the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), motor (similar to automobile coverage in the United States), property, surety, marine,
aviation, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, offshore energy and ports and terminals.
Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident provides
financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and
extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms potentially very different from those in
the United States.







Othercoverages include Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and Commercial Multi-Peril, which
are described in more detail in the "Business Insurance" section of this narrative.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Financial, Professional & International
Insurance segment as of January 1, 2010. In the U.S. operations for third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers'
liability, and employment practices liability, Financial, Professional & International Insurance generally limits net retentions, through the use of reinsurance, up to $15.3 million per
policy after the Company retains an aggregate layer of expected losses. For surety protection, where insured limits are often significant, the Company generally retains up to $55.0 million
probable maximum loss (PML) per principal but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation, credit quality and other credit risk factors. In the International operations,
per-risk retentions are usually limited to $16 million. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate
limits or caps are reached. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company may also retain amounts
greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Financial, Professional & International's direct written premiums for
the states that accounted for the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2009:

State% ofTotalCalifornia5.9%New York5.3Texas4.5Florida3.3Illinois3.1All other domestic(1)38.5Total domestic60.6Total international39.4Total100.0%

(1)No
other single state within the United States accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2009 by the domestic operations of
the Financial, Professional & International Insurance segment.

Competition

The competitive landscape in which Bond & Financial Products operates is affected by many of the same factors described
previously for the Business Insurance segment. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional
products and pricing and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.









Bond &
Financial Products underwrites and markets its products to national, mid-sized and small businesses and organizations, as well as individuals, and distributes
them through both national and wholesale brokers, regional brokers and retail agents. Its reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and
industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Financial Products an advantage over
many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The ability of Bond & Financial Products to cross-sell its products to customers of
the Business Insurance and Personal Insurance segments provides additional competitive advantages for the Company.

International
competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in the United Kingdom, Canada and the Republic of Ireland. Companies compete on the basis of price, product
offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and
provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets. Products are generally distributed through a relatively small broker base whose customer groups align with the Company's targeted
markets.

At
Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd's operation
writes business worldwide. Lloyd's syndicates are increasingly capitalized by corporate capital, much of which is provided by large international insurance enterprises. Competition is again based on
price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite effectively and profitably with an emphasis on short-tail insurance lines. The Company underwrites
through five principal business units at Lloyd's: marine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and aviation.

PERSONAL INSURANCE

Personal Insurance writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering personal risks. The primary coverages in Personal
Insurance are automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals. These products are distributed through independent agents, sponsoring organizations such as employee and affinity groups, joint
marketing arrangements with other insurers, and direct marketing.

Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information

The following table sets forth net written premiums for the Personal Insurance segment's business by product line for the periods
indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution"
for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)200920082007% of Total2009By product line:Automobile$3,629$3,660$3,62850.8%Homeowners and Other3,5203,3353,20749.2Total Personal Insurance$7,149$6,995$6,835100.0%

In
April 2007, the Company completed the sale of its subsidiary, Mendota Insurance Company, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Mendakota Insurance Company and Mendota Insurance
Agency, Inc. These subsidiaries primarily offered nonstandard automobile coverage and accounted for $49 million of net written premiums in the year ended December 31, 2007. The
sale was not material to the Company's results of operations or financial position.









Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Personal Insurance products are distributed primarily through approximately 11,500 independent agents located throughout the United
States, supported by personnel in 16 marketing regions and six service centers. In selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes,
each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with Personal Insurance's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully
monitors its performance. While the
principal markets for Personal Insurance's insurance products are in states along the East Coast, in the South and Texas, Personal Insurance continues to expand its geographic presence across the
United States.

Personal
Insurance uses a consistent operating model that provides technological alternatives to independent agents to maximize their ease of doing business. Personal Insurance
independent agents quote and issue approximately 94% of Personal Insurance's new business policies directly from their agencies by leveraging either their own agency management system or using
Personal Insurance's proprietary quote and issuance systems which allow agents to rate, quote and issue policies on line. All of these quote and issue platforms interface with Personal Insurance's
underwriting and rating systems, which monitor transactions for compliance with Personal Insurance's underwriting and pricing programs. Business processed by agents on these platforms is subject to
consultative review by Personal Insurance's in-house underwriters.

Personal
Insurance continues to develop functionality to provide its agents with a comprehensive array of online service capabilities packaged together in an agency service portal,
including customer service, marketing and claim functionality. Agencies can also choose to shift the ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's four
Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of direct customer service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy
changes. Approximately 1,540 agents take advantage of this service alternative.

Pricing and Underwriting

Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claim, actuarial and
product development. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary data accumulated over many years is analyzed with respect to
Personal Insurance's business. Personal Insurance uses a variety of proprietary and vendor produced risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation. Personal Insurance's product
managers establish underwriting guidelines integrated with











its
filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

Pricing
for personal automobile insurance is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of automobile repairs, medical care and litigation of
liability claims. As a result, the profitability of the business is largely dependent on promptly identifying and responding to disparities between premium levels and projected claim costs, and
obtaining approval from state regulatory authorities when necessary for filed rate changes.

Pricing
in the homeowners business is also driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and by inflation in the cost of building supplies, labor and household possessions.
Most homeowners policies offer, but do not require, automatic increases in coverage to reflect growth in replacement costs. In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple peril coverage,
the profitability and pricing of homeowners insurance is affected by the incidence of natural disasters, particularly those related to weather and earthquakes. Changes to methods of marketing and
underwriting in some jurisdictions are subject to state-imposed restrictions, which can make it more difficult for an insurer to significantly manage catastrophe exposures.

Insurers
writing personal lines property and casualty policies may be unable to increase prices until some time after the costs associated with coverage have increased, primarily because
of state insurance rate regulation. The pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to increased costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable state law requires prior approval of rate
increases or notification to the regulator either before or after a rate change is imposed. In states with prior approval laws, rates must be approved by the regulator before being used by the
insurer. In states having "file-and-use" laws, the insurer must file rate changes with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using the new rates. A
"use-and-file" law requires an insurer to file rates within a period of time after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of the states
require prior approval of most rate changes. The Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to
considerations of
public policy, the evolving political environment and/or social responsibilities. The Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write for strategic purposes, such as improving
access to other underwriting opportunities.

Independent
agents either utilize one of the Company's automated quote and issue systems or they submit applications to the Company's service centers for underwriting review, quote, and
issuance. Automated transactions are edited by the Company's systems and issued if they conform to established guidelines. Exceptions are reviewed by underwriters in the Company's business centers.
Audits are conducted by an internal peer review team across all of the Company's independent agency generated business on a systematic sampling basis. Each agent is assigned to a specific employee or
team of employees responsible for working with the agent on business plan development, marketing, and overall growth and profitability. The Company uses agency level management information to analyze
and understand results and to identify issues and opportunities.

The
Personal Insurance products sold through additional marketing channels utilize the same issuance systems discussed previously, and any exceptions are also underwritten by the
Company's employees. Business derived through these channels is marketed by external personnel, who work with Company management on business plan development, marketing and overall growth and
profitability. Channel-specific production and claim information is used to analyze results and identify problems and opportunities.









Product Lines

The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners insurance sold to individuals. Personal Insurance
had approximately 7.5 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) at December 31, 2009.

Personal Automobileprovides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage and for physical damage to an
insured's own vehicle from collision and various other perils. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as
no-fault coverage.

Homeowners and Otherprovides protection against losses to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils (excluding flooding) as
well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and rental property contents. The Company also writes coverage for personal watercraft,
personal articles such as jewelry, and umbrella liability protection.

Net Retention Policy

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Personal Insurance segment as of January 1,
2010. Personal Insurance retains the first $10.0 million of umbrella policies and purchases facultative reinsurance for limits over $10.0 million. For personal property insurance, there
is a $7.0 million maximum retention per risk. The Company utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. The Company
may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the states that accounted for
the majority of premium volume for the year ended December 31, 2009:

State% ofTotalNew York14.6%Texas8.8Pennsylvania7.6California5.6New Jersey5.5Massachusetts4.8Connecticut4.6Georgia4.6Virginia4.4Florida4.3Maryland3.5South Carolina3.0All others(1)28.7Total100.0%

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the total direct written premiums written in 2009 by the Personal Insurance segment.







Competition

CLAIMS MANAGEMENT

The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services operation, with locations in the United States and in the
specific countries where it does business. With more than 13,000 employees, Claims Services employs a diverse group of professionals, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys, investigators,
engineers, accountants, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as independent adjusters and appraisers, investigators and
attorneys, are available for use as appropriate.

U.S.
field claim management teams located in 27 claim centers and 60 satellite and specialty-only offices in 46 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim
characteristics unique to the businesses within the Business Insurance, Financial, Professional & International Insurance, and Personal Insurance segments. Claim teams with specialized skills,
resources, and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of those businesses with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office
operations provide additional support in the form of workflow design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and
control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a larger, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the
needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims management for International is generally provided locally by staff in the respective international location due to local knowledge of
applicable laws and regulations, although it is also managed by the Company's U.S. Claims Services organization to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An
integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative
Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts that investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This
staff also has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are
reported to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.









Claims
Services uses advanced technology, management information, and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results to evaluate and improve its claims
management performance. The Company's claims management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company
continually
monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. In 2007, the Company opened a
state-of-the-art claims training facility, offering hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In
recent years, the Company has invested significant additional resources in many of its claim handling operations and routinely monitors the effect of its investments to ensure a consistent
optimization among outcomes, cost and service.

In
recent years, Claims Services refined its catastrophe response strategy to increase the Company's ability to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel,
enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjustors and appraisers. The Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing
employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In 2008, these internal
resources were successfully deployed to respond to a record number of catastrophe claims, including those resulting from Hurricanes Ike, Gustav and Dolly.

The
Company continues to develop effective claim solutions that provide superior customer service. One example of this is the Company's auto claim service that features three
Company-owned auto repair facilities and selected independently-owned auto repair facilities with Company appraisers on site to complete an estimate, handle all rental arrangements and monitor the
repair process from start to finish. By managing the claims in this way, the Company can help ensure prompt, quality results and create a differentiated, superior claim experience for customers.

Another
strategic advantage is TravCompSM, a workers' compensation claim resolution and medical management program that assists adjusters in the prompt investigation and
effective management of workers' compensation claims. Innovative medical and claims management technologies permit nurse, medical and claims professionals to share appropriate vital information that
supports prompt investigation, effective return to work and claim resolution strategies. These technologies, together with effective matching of professional skills and authority to specific claim
issues, have resulted in more efficient management of workers' compensation claims with lower medical, wage replacement costs and loss adjustment expenses.

REINSURANCE











applicable
regulatory and/or court authority. For additional information concerning reinsurance, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements and
"Item 1A—Risk Factors."

The
Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including:

•facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single
policy and each policy reinsured is separately negotiated;•treaty reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and•catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Company is indemnified for an amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with
respect to losses resulting from a catastrophic event.

For
a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see "Item 3—Legal Proceedings."

Catastrophe Reinsurance

Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events including, among others, hurricanes, earthquakes, windstorms, hail, wildfires,
severe winter weather, floods and volcanic eruptions. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological
events) or a consequence of political instability. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes and earthquakes may produce
significant damage in larger areas, especially those areas that are heavily populated. The Company generally seeks to manage its exposure to catastrophes through individual risk selection and the
purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. The Company utilizes a general catastrophe reinsurance treaty with unaffiliated reinsurers to manage its exposure to losses resulting from catastrophes. In
addition to the coverage provided under this treaty, the Company also utilizes a catastrophe bond program, as well as a Northeast catastrophe reinsurance treaty, to protect against certain losses
resulting from catastrophes in the Northeastern United States.

General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.The general catastrophe reinsurance treaty covers the accumulation of net property losses
arising out of one
occurrence. The treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. The treaty
covers all of the Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their possessions and waters contiguous thereto, the Caribbean and Mexico. For business underwritten in Canada, the United
Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and in the Company's operations at Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the
respective local balance sheet. The Company conducts an ongoing review of its risk and catastrophe coverages and makes changes as it deems appropriate.









The
following table summarizes the Company's coverage under its General Catastrophe Treaty, effective for the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010:

Layer of LossReinsurance Coverage In-Force$0 - $1.0 billionLoss 100% retained by the Company$1.0 billion - $1.5 billion20.0% ($100 million) of loss covered by treaty; 80.0% ($400 million) of loss retained by Company$1.5 billion - $2.25 billion56.7% ($425 million) of loss covered by Treaty; 43.3% ($325 million) of loss retained by CompanyGreater than $2.25 billion100% of loss retained by Company, except for certain losses incurred in the Northeastern United States, which are covered by the Catastrophe Bond Program and Northeast Catastrophe Treaty as described below.

Catastrophe Bond Program.In May 2007, the Company announced the establishment of a multi-year catastrophe bond program to provide
reinsurance protection for losses resulting from hurricanes and certain other catastrophes. The Company obtained reinsurance under the program by entering into a reinsurance agreement with Longpoint
Re Ltd. (Longpoint Re), an independent Cayman Islands insurance company. Longpoint Re successfully completed an offering to unrelated investors under the program of $500 million
aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds on May 8, 2007. In connection with the offering, the Company and Longpoint Re entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement
providing up to $500 million of reinsurance from losses resulting from certain hurricane events in the Northeast United States. The agreement expires in May 2010.

On
December 18, 2009, Longpoint Re II, Ltd. (Longpoint Re II), a newly formed independent Cayman Islands insurance company, successfully completed an offering
to unrelated investors of $500 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the offering, the Company and Longpoint Re II entered into two reinsurance agreements
(covering a three-year and four-year period, respectively), each providing up to $250 million of reinsurance from losses resulting from certain hurricane events in the
northeastern United States.

Under
the terms of these reinsurance agreements, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Longpoint Re and Longpoint Re II for the reinsurance coverage. The
reinsurance
agreements entered into by the Company with Longpoint Re and Longpoint Re II utilize a dual trigger that is based upon the Company's covered losses incurred and an index that is created by
applying predetermined percentages to insured industry losses in each state in the covered area as reported by Property Claim Services, a division of Insurance Services Offices, Inc. (owned by
Verisk Analytics, Inc.). The reinsurance agreements entered into with Longpoint Re and Longpoint Re II as part of the catastrophe bond program meet the requirements to be accounted for
as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. Amounts payable to the Company under the reinsurance agreements will be determined by the index-based losses, which are
designed to approximate the Company's actual losses from any covered event. The amount of actual losses and index losses from any covered event may differ. The principal amount of the catastrophe
bonds will be reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the reinsurance agreements.

The
index-based losses attachment point and maximum limit are reset annually to maintain modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss on the respective catastrophe bonds equal
to the initial modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss. In accordance with the Longpoint Re program, the index-based losses attachment point and maximum limit were reset on May 8,
2009. For the period May 8, 2009 through May 7, 2010, the Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the index-based losses in the covered
area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $2.327 billion. The full coverage amount of











$500 million
is available on a proportional basis until index-based losses reach a maximum $3.10 billion limit. With regard to the Longpoint Re II program, the two reinsurance
agreements entered into on December 18, 2009 provide protection for covered events occurring before or on December 18, 2012 and December 18, 2013, respectively. The Company will
be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the two reinsurance agreements if the index-based losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of
$2.250 billion. The full $250 million coverage amount of each agreement is available on a proportional basis until index-based losses reach a maximum $2.850 billion limit. The
Company has not incurred any losses subject to either the Longpoint Re or Longpoint Re II agreements since their inception.

At
the time the agreements were entered into with Longpoint Re and Longpoint Re II, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable
interest entities or VIEs. Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through
voting rights or similar rights to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations, or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient
financial resources for the entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the
entity's expected residual returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements.

As
a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreements with Longpoint Re and Longpoint Re II, the Company concluded that both were VIEs because the conditions described in
items (a) and (b) above were present. However, while both entities were determined to be VIEs, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in either entity, as the
variability in both entities' results, caused by the reinsurance agreements, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by the two entities and residual
amounts earned by the two entities, if any, are expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Longpoint Re or Longpoint Re II).

Accordingly,
the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Longpoint Re or Longpoint Re II and does not consolidate either entity in the Company's consolidated financial
statements. Additionally, because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Longpoint Re or Longpoint
Re II, the











consolidation
of either entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

Northeast Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.In addition to its General Catastrophe treaty and its multi-year catastrophe bond program,
the
Company also is party to a Northeast General Catastrophe treaty which provides up to $500 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention, for losses arising from hurricanes,
earthquakes and winter storm or freeze losses from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010. Losses from a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere
in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the catastrophe bond programs (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to
this treaty.

Terrorism Risk Insurance Acts.On November 26, 2002, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 was enacted into Federal law and
established the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (the Program), a Federal program in the Department of the Treasury, that provided for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses
resulting from acts of terrorism or war committed by or on behalf of a foreign interest. The Program was scheduled to terminate on December 31, 2005. In December 2005, the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (the Terrorism Extension Act) was enacted into Federal law, reauthorizing the Program through December 31, 2007, while reducing the Federal role under the
Program. In December 2007, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 was enacted into Federal law, extending coverage to include domestic acts of terrorism and reauthorizing the
Program through 2014. The three acts are hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Acts."

In
order for a loss to be covered under the Program (subject losses), the loss must meet certain aggregate industry loss minimums and must be the result of an event that is certified as
an act of terrorism by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury. The annual aggregate industry loss minimum is $100 million through 2014. The original Program excluded from participation certain of
the following types of insurance: Federal crop insurance, private mortgage insurance, financial guaranty insurance, medical malpractice insurance, health or life insurance, flood insurance, and
reinsurance. The Terrorism Extension Act exempted from coverage certain additional types of insurance, including commercial automobile, professional liability (other than directors and officers'),
surety, burglary and theft, and farm-owners multi-peril. In the case of a war declared by Congress, only workers' compensation losses are covered by the Acts. The Acts generally require
that all commercial property and casualty insurers licensed in the United States participate in the Program. Under the Program, a participating insurer is entitled to be reimbursed by the Federal
Government for 85% of subject losses, after an insurer deductible, subject to an annual cap. The Federal reimbursement percentage is 85% through 2014.

The
deductible for any calendar year is equal to 20% of the insurer's direct earned premiums for covered lines for the preceding calendar year. The Company's estimated deductible under
the Program is $2.14 billion for 2010. The annual cap limits the amount of aggregate subject losses for all participating insurers to $100 billion. Once subject losses have reached the
$100 billion aggregate during a program year, participating insurers will not be liable under the Program for additional covered terrorism losses for that program year. The Company has had no
terrorism-related losses since the Program was established. Because the Acts are relatively new and their interpretation is untested, there is substantial uncertainty as to how they will be applied to
specific circumstances. It is also possible that future legislative action could change the Acts. Further, given the unpredictable frequency and severity of terrorism losses, as well as the limited
terrorism coverage in the Company's own reinsurance program, future losses from acts of terrorism, particularly "unconventional" acts of terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical or
radiological events, could be material to the Company's operating results, financial position and/or liquidity in future periods. While the Company seeks to manage its exposure to man-made
catastrophic events involving conventional means, there can











be
no assurance that the Company would have sufficient resources to respond to claims arising out of one or more man-made catastrophic events involving so-called weapons of mass destruction, including
nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological means.

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES

Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and
loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.

The
Company continually refines its reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process that includes review of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The
Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries
for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are also reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and
a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical
Accounting Estimates."

The
process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" section of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is
difficult to estimate. Reserve
estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus occurrence), claim complexity,
the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and
when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The
Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for
each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the
relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation."

Discounting

The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long-term disability payments under workers' compensation
insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance, which totaled $2.16 billion and $2.25 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were discounted to the present
value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table

The table that follows sets forth the year-end reserves from 1999 through 2009 and the subsequent changes in those
reserves, presented on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for the years 1999 through 2003 have not been restated to reflect the
acquisition of The St. Paul Companies, Inc. (SPC) in 2004. The table includes SPC reserves beginning at December 31, 2004.









In
addition, the original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for the years 1999 to 2000 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of
Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. Beginning in 2001, the table includes the reserve activity of Northland and Commercial Guaranty Casualty. The data in the table is presented in accordance
with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data
commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 1999 to 2009 year-end reserves and the subsequent changes in
those reserves.

For
instance, the "cumulative deficiency (redundancy)" shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that
year-end have changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency for a year relates only to reserves at that year-end and those amounts are not additive.
Expressed another way, if the original reserves at the end of 1999 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2005 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the
excess of the actual payment of $5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiencies in each of the years 1999 to 2004 shown in the
accompanying table.

Various
factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative
deficiencies shown in the table arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the
post-1984 period, the Company has developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation." General conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future.

Other
factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example,
reserves for long-term disability payments under workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance (tabular reserves) are discounted to reflect the time value of
money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also, a portion of National Accounts business
is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business, increases in loss experience result in an
increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves and an offsetting decrease in amounts
recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or redundancies on the Company's earnings but are
not reflected in the table.

Because
of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table.











(at December 31, in millions)199920002001(a)2002(a)2003(a)2004(a)(b)(c)2005(a)(b)(c)2006(a)(b)(c)2007(a)(b)(c)2008(a)(b)(c)2009(a)(b)(c)

Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated$19,983$19,435$20,197$23,268$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941

Cumulative amounts paid as of

One year later4,0824,3745,0185,1704,6518,8718,6327,4178,1467,519

Two years later6,9577,5178,7458,3198,68614,66613,83713,18112,798

Three years later9,32410,21811,14911,31211,54118,73318,46616,545

Four years later11,49312,00013,40213,54813,70822,51421,025

Five years later12,91113,60315,11515,22915,57424,572

Six years later14,17214,95816,47316,83616,624

Seven years later15,30116,06317,87717,738

Eight years later16,20617,28318,662

Nine years later17,19417,945

Ten years later17,799

Reserves re-estimated as of

One year later19,73619,39423,22823,65824,22241,70642,46642,17241,37339,863

Two years later19,60022,23324,08324,59225,27242,56542,31140,83739,925

Three years later22,30222,77825,06225,55326,04242,94041,69239,739

Four years later22,61223,87125,95326,28826,50143,14840,855

Five years later23,59124,87226,67026,73126,80342,655

Six years later24,55925,52127,17927,05526,619

Seven years later25,11426,03927,55627,022

Eight years later25,66426,36427,580

Nine years later25,91726,380

Ten years later26,013

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)(a)(b)6,0306,9457,3833,7542,5641,209(2,040)(3,105)(3,173)(1,449)

Gross liability—end of year$28,854$28,312$30,617$33,628$34,474$58,984$61,007$59,202$57,619$54,646$53,054

Reinsurance recoverables8,8718,87710,42010,36010,41917,53818,11216,35814,52113,33412,113



Net liability—end of year$19,983$19,435$20,197$23,268$24,055$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941



Gross re-estimated liability—latest$36,106$37,297$40,061$38,843$37,592$60,347$58,906$55,478$54,140$52,888

Re-estimated reinsurance recoverables—latest10,09310,91712,48111,82110,97317,69218,05115,73914,21513,025



Net re-estimated liability—latest$26,013$26,380$27,580$27,022$26,619$42,655$40,855$39,739$39,925$39,863



Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy)$7,252$8,985$9,444$5,215$3,118$1,363$(2,101)$(3,724)$(3,479)$(1,758)



Included in the cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by year is the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related to
asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions:

Asbestos1999200020012002200320042005200620072008Gross$5,968$5,781$5,503$1,843$1,818$1,285$451$254$255$185Net$4,450$4,400$4,216$1,271$1,247$1,242$411$255$255$185Environmental1999200020012002200320042005200620072008Gross$986$911$856$702$643$477$460$352$170$85Net$934$870$827$677$618$490$460$340$155$70



(a)

Includes
reserves of the subsidiaries of Jupiter Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries and Commercial Guaranty Lloyds Insurance Company, which were
acquired from Citigroup on October 1, 2001. Also includes reserves of Commercial Guaranty Casualty Insurance Company, which was contributed to TPC by Citigroup on October 3, 2001. At
December 31, 2001, these gross reserves were $867 million, and net reserves were $633 million.

(b)

For
years prior to 2004, excludes SPC reserves, which were acquired on April 1, 2004. Accordingly, the reserve development (net reserves for claims
and claim adjustment expense re-estimated as of subsequent years less net reserves recorded at the end of the year, as originally estimated) for years prior to 2004 relates only to losses recorded by
TPC and does not include reserve development recorded by SPC. For 2004 and subsequent years, includes SPC reserves and subsequent development recorded by SPC. At December 31, 2004, SPC gross
reserves were $23,274 million, and net reserves were $15,959 million.

(c)

In
December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.)-based
runoff insurance and reinsurance businesses. (Unionamerica was acquired in 2004 as part of the merger of SPC and TPC.) Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of
Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a
reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment)
of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses.









Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group,
a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation."

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS

Most of the Company's insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement.
Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's capital and surplus rather than just on its own capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the
members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.

Effective
January 1, 2009, Seaboard Surety Company was merged into Travelers C&S Company of America. Prior to that merger, Seaboard Surety Company was 90% reinsured by The
Travelers Indemnity Company, a member of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool.

RATINGS

Ratings are an important factor in setting the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings
from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically
issue two types of ratings: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings which assess an insurer's ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders and debt ratings which assess a company's
prospects for repaying its debts and assist lenders in setting interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowing needs. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to
buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system
and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to
evaluate a company's overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of











these
agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's website and from the agencies.

The
Company's insurance operations could be negatively impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying or debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could
experience a reduced demand for certain products in certain markets. Additionally, the Company's ability to access the capital markets could be impacted by a downgrade in one or more of the Company's
debt ratings. If this were to occur, the Company could incur higher borrowing costs.

Claims—Paying Ratings

The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers
C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as
of February 18, 2010. The table also presents S&P's Lloyd's Syndicate Assessment rating for Travelers Syndicate Management—Syndicate 5000. The table presents the position of each
rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchTravelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b)A+ (2nd of 16)Aa2 (3rd of 21)AA- (4th of 21)AA (3rd of 21)Travelers C&S Co. of AmericaA+ (2nd of 16)Aa2 (3rd of 21)AA- (4th of 21)AA (3rd of 21)First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.A- (4th of 16)——AA (3rd of 21)First Trenton Indemnity CompanyA (3rd of 16)——AA (3rd of 21)The Premier Insurance Company of MassachusettsA (3rd of 16)———Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd.A+ (2nd of 16)Aa2 (3rd of 21)AA- (4th of 21)—Travelers Guarantee Company of CanadaA+ (2nd of 16)———Travelers Insurance Company LimitedA (3rd of 16)———Travelers Syndicate Management Limited—Syndicate 5000——3- (9th of 15)—



(a)

The
Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The
Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company,
The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty
Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company,
Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal
Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, Athena Assurance Company,
St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, St. Paul Medical Liability Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and
Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.

(b)

The
following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company,
Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and
Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.











Debt Ratings

The following table summarizes the current debt, preferred stock and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of
February 18, 2010. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchSenior debta- (7th of 22)A2 (6th of 21)A- (7th of 22)A (6th of 19)Subordinated debtbbb+ (8th of 22)A3 (7th of 21)BBB+ (8th of 22)A- (7th of 19)Junior subordinated debtbbb (9th of 22)A3 (7th of 21)BBB (9th of 22)BBB+ (8th of 19)Trust preferred securitiesbbb (9th of 22)A3 (7th of 21)BBB (9th of 22)BBB+ (8th of 19)Preferred stockbbb (9th of 22)Baa1 (8th of 21)BBB (9th of 22)—Commercial paperAMB-1 (2nd of 6)P-1 (1st of 3)A-2 (3rd of 10)F-1 (2nd of 7)

Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company in 2009 and through February 18,
2010:

•

On February 13, 2009, Fitch affirmed all ratings for the Company. The outlook remained stable.

•

On May 15, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers
C&S Co. of America and Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. The outlook for the financial strength ratings is stable. Additionally, for The Travelers Companies, Inc., A.M.
Best revised the outlook for the debt ratings to positive from stable and affirmed the debt ratings. A.M. Best also upgraded the financial strength ratings of Travelers Guarantee Company of Canada
from "A" to "A+." The outlook for that rating is stable. In addition, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength ratings of The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, First Trenton Indemnity
Company and First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. The outlook for these ratings is stable.

•

On August 11, 2009, Standard & Poor's revised its outlook to positive from stable for The Travelers
Companies, Inc. and its operating insurance companies and affirmed the claims-paying and debt ratings of the Company with a one year time horizon for consideration of an upgrade.

•

On October 28, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" and the issuer credit rating of
"A+" for Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook for both ratings is stable.

•

On November 12, 2009, Standard & Poor's affirmed the insurer financial strength rating of "3-"
for Travelers Syndicate Management Limited—Syndicate 5000. The outlook is stable.

•

On December 29, 2009, Fitch revised its guidelines for rating preferred stock and hybrid securities issued by
companies in all industry sectors, including insurers. On January 29, 2010, upon implementing its revised guidelines, Fitch took action to downgrade the ratings of over 200 such securities in
the insurance sector, including the Company's junior subordinated debt and trust preferred securities. The ratings of the Company's securities were downgraded to "BBB+" from "A-."

Recently,
Moody's also issued revised guidelines for rating insurance hybrid securities and subordinated debt. Application of these guidelines by Moody's, which is expected to occur in
2010, could result in reduced equity credit and/or ratings downgrades of the Company's hybrid securities and subordinated debt.









INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid taxable U.S.
government bonds, tax-exempt U.S. municipal bonds, and taxable corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments,
and investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy the Company's insurance and debt obligations. The Company's management of the duration
of the fixed income investment portfolio generally produces a duration that modestly exceeds the estimated duration of the Company's net insurance liabilities.

The
primary goals of the Company's asset liability management process are to satisfy the insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and
maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Company's fixed income portfolio
adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company's insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the market value of the fixed
income portfolio exceeds the present value of the net insurance liabilities, plus the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds provides assurance
of the Company's ability to fund the payment of claims without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities.

The
Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, real estate partnerships, hedge funds, mortgage loans and trading
securities. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See
note 3 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio.

REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends.TRV's principal insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the states of Connecticut and
Minnesota. The
insurance holding company laws of both states applicable to TRV's subsidiaries require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend, that
together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurer's capital and surplus as of the











preceding
December 31, or the insurer's net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices
and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The
insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive,
limitations on the payment of dividends.

Rate and Rule Approvals.TRV's insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule
approvals. The
applicable laws and regulations are used by states to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An
insurer's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies.Several states have laws and regulations which may
impact the
timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances
insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non-renew certain policies only for certain
specified reasons.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance Arrangements.Virtually all states
require
insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRV's insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many
states also have laws that established second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

TRV's
insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance, property
windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes, and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that
coverage in the voluntary market.

Assessments
may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance
Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from
those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not
reinsurance are reported as a component of "General and Administrative Expenses." For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory
pooling and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see Item 1A—"Risk Factors."

Insurance Regulatory Information System.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory
Information
System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year-end data.
These ratios assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results.
A ratio result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system.
Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound











companies
to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more
of the ratios.

Management
does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2009 IRIS ratio results. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up
that no regulatory action was required.

Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements.The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies. The RBC
requirement determines minimum capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. Under laws adopted by individual states, insurers having total
adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

The
formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with higher levels of capital. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to
use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies. At December 31, 2009, all of TRV's insurance subsidiaries had total adjusted capital in excess of the RBC requirement.

Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality
and
concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with these laws and
regulations.

Agent and Broker Compensation.As part of industry-wide investigations that commenced in 2004, the Company received subpoenas and
written
requests for information from a number of regulators. The areas of inquiry addressed to the Company included the method by which brokers and agents were compensated. The Company cooperated with these
subpoenas and requests for information. The Company also entered into agreements with several of these regulators to resolve issues related to broker and agent compensation. As a result of these
agreements, the Company has discontinued paying contingent commissions in the United States on a number of insurance businesses, including excess casualty and umbrella, personal insurance, boiler and
machinery, financial guaranty, fidelity and burglary & theft. The Company has developed alternative compensation arrangements for these lines of











business
that compensate brokers and agents in a manner that differentiates for business performance and is consistent with all applicable laws. Beginning January 1, 2007, the Company has
offered an optional fixed commission program in the U.S. for most commercial insurance lines.

International Regulation

TRV's insurance underwriting subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom, Travelers Insurance Company Limited and Travelers Casualty and
Surety Company of Europe Limited, are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). The FSA's principal objectives are to maintain market confidence, promote public understanding of the
financial system, protect consumers, and fight financial crime. TRV's managing agent (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyd's syndicate is also regulated by the FSA, which has
delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's.

Through
Lloyd's, TRV is licensed to write business in over 70 countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In each such country, TRV is subject to the laws
and insurance regulation of that country. In 2007, a TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, established a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the
China Insurance Regulatory Commission. In addition, in 2007, TRV's Lloyd's managing agency established a service company in Singapore, the underwriting operations of which are regulated by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore.

TRV's
insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland are regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. In Canada, the conduct of TRV's insurance business is regulated
by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act, which requires insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on the
type and amount of insurance policies in force.

TRV's
branch in runoff in Australia is regulated by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority.

Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it
is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws,
require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other
things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control.Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance
approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The
laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company
admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of
cease and desist orders with respect to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any
transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in
which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition











notification
in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two
of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the
Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 including approval of the Financial Services Authority. Some of TRV's other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance
business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions.

These
requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's
shareholders.

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the
environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact
on all aspects of the Company. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all
of the Company's stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the
identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks.

ERM
at the Company is an integral part of business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the Board of Directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves
risk-based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The
Company uses various analyses and methods, including sophisticated computer modeling techniques, to analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with them. These analyses and
methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions and are designed to aid in the management of the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and
analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. Terrorism provides a unique type of exposure, as discussed further in "Item 1A—Risk Factors."
These activities are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term financial strategy and objectives.

In
addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's business units, other key internal risk management functions include the Management Committee
(comprised of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Risk Committee of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Business
Conduct Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy group, the Enterprise Underwriting group and many others. A senior executive oversees the ERM process
at a corporate level. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic
ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall effort to understand and manage its
portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Company's insurance
operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company's enterprise risk management program.









The Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and
efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the
Company that focuses on value creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk
management or control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial
loss remains in spite of the Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the
discussions included in "Item 1A—Risk Factors," "Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "Item 8—Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."

OTHER INFORMATION

Customer Concentration

In the opinion of the Company's management, no material part of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer or group of customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts for 10% or more
of the Company's consolidated revenues.

Employees

At December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 32,000 employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are
satisfactory. None of the Company's employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

Sources of Liquidity

For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the long-term debt of the Company, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and note 8 of notes to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Taxation

For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see note 11 of notes to the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments

For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Recent Transactions

For information regarding recent transactions of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Company Website and Availability of SEC Filings

The Company's Internet website iswww.travelers.com. Information on the Company's
website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available











free
of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on
Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable
after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the Company's website, then click on "SEC Filings" under the "Investors" heading.

From
time to time, the Company may use its website as a channel of distribution of material company information. Financial and other material information regarding the Company is
routinely posted on and accessible athttp://investor.travelers.com. In addition, you may automatically receive e-mail alerts and other
information about the Company by enrolling your e-mail address by visiting the "E-mail Alert Service" section athttp://investor.travelers.com.









Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms





Accident yearThe annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.

Adjusted unassigned surplusUnassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year's
unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.

Admitted insurerA company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.

AnnuityA contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or
more persons or for a specified period of time.

Assigned risk poolsReinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their
direct writings.

Assumed reinsuranceInsurance risks acquired from a ceding company.

Average value analysisAn actuarial method used to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that average claim values are stable and predictable over time for a
particular cohort of claims. The method is utilized most often where ultimate claim counts are known or reliably estimable fairly early after the start of an accident year and average values are expected to be fairly predictable from one year to the
next.

Ultimate losses under the method equal the known or estimated ultimate claim counts times the estimated average
value. Estimated ultimate claim counts are frequently based on a claim count development method, essentially the same as the paid and case incurred development methods mentioned elsewhere in this glossary but using claim count rather than claim
dollar data. The average values can be based on historical trends from past closed claims, or backed into from estimated ultimate losses divided by estimated ultimate claim counts, or some other approach. When the average values are calculated from
ultimate loss estimates, the resulting estimated averages may be supplemented with other data/analyses.

Book value per shareTotal common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.













Bornhuetter-Ferguson methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line component. If
the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the outstanding losses.

The basic premise of the method is that the historical ratio of additional claim activity to earned premium for
a given product line component/age-to-age period is stable and predictable. It implicitly assumes that the actual activity to date for past periods for that cohort is not a credible predictor of future activity for that cohort, or at least is not
credible enough to override the "a priori" assumption as to future activity. It may be applied to either paid or case incurred claim data. It is used most often where the claim data is sparse and/or volatile and for relatively young cohorts with low
volumes and/or data credibility.

To illustrate, the method may assume that the ratio of additional paid losses from the 12 to 24 month
period for an accident year is 10% of the original "a priori" expected losses for that accident year. The original "a priori" expected losses are typically based on the original loss ratio assumption for that accident year, with subsequent adjustment
as facts develop.

The ultimate losses equal actual activity to date plus the expected values for future periods.

BrokerOne who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission
from the insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.

CapacityThe percentage of surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to
place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.

CaptiveA closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company's owners
or their affiliates.

Case-incurred development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method," but based
on the growth in cumulative case-incurred losses (i.e., the sum of claim-adjustor incurred estimates for claims in the cohort) rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative case incurred losses for a given cohort of
claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort.













Case reservesClaim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported claim.

Casualty insuranceInsurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the
insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers' liability, workers' compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance.
It excludes certain types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.

CatastropheA severe loss, resulting from natural and man-made events, including risks such as fire, earthquake, windstorm,
explosion, terrorism and other similar events. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics. Catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount in advance, and therefore, their effects are not included in earnings or claims and claim adjustment
expense reserves prior to occurrence. A catastrophe may also result in the payment of reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.

Catastrophe lossLoss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes.

Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the
amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a "catastrophe cover." These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to
cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers' compensation policies.

Cede; ceding companyWhen an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a "cession," it "cedes" business and is referred
to as the "ceding company."

Ceded reinsuranceInsurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

ClaimRequest by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured
peril.

Claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss" and "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expense reservesSee "Loss reserves."

CohortA group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example,
all claims for a given product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.













Commercial multi-peril policiesRefers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.

Commutation agreementAn agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in
exchange for a complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.

Debt-to-capitalThe ratio of debt to the sum of shareholders' equity and debt excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized
investment gains and losses.

DeductibleThe amount of loss that an insured retains.

Deferred acquisition costsPrimarily commissions and premium-related taxes that vary with, and are primarily related to, the production of
new contracts and are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).

DeficiencyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are insufficient to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as
new information becomes available.

Demand surgeSignificant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for
those materials and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.

Direct written premiumsThe amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of
an insurance contract. The amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded.

Earned premiums or premiums earnedThat portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term.
Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP) and GAAP.

Excess liabilityAdditional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.

Excess of loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar
amount or "retention."

Expense ratioSee "Underwriting expense ratio."

Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is
separately negotiated.













Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) PlanA residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through the regular
(voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see "residual market (involuntary business)"

Fidelity and surety programsFidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee. Surety is a three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a second party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.

GAAP combined ratioThe sum of the loss and LAE ratio, the underwriting expense ratio and, where applicable, the ratio of dividends
to policyholders to net premiums earned. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.

GAAP combined ratio excluding incremental impact of direct to consumer initiativeThe GAAP combined ratio adjusted to exclude the direct, variable impact of the Company's direct-to-consumer
initiative in the Personal Insurance segment.

Ground-up analysisA method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line
component. It involves analyzing the exposure at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses for the cohort are
then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.

In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the
larger insureds, with the costs for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured
analysis).

Guaranteed cost productsAn insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the
covered period.

Guaranty fundA state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should
insolvencies occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer's obligations to policyholders.

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reservesReserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes
amounts for unreported claims, development on known cases, and re-opened claims.













Inland marineA broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well as bridges,
tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and
others.

IRIS ratiosFinancial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies.

Large deductible policyAn insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is
responsible for paying the entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.

Lloyd'sAn insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks,
deal with Lloyd's underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.

LossAn occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or
excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.

Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to
claim settlement costs.

Loss and LAE ratioFor SAP, it is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses to net earned premiums. For GAAP, it is
the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses reduced by an allocation of fee income to net earned premiums.

Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the
insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document,
"loss reserves" is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.

Loss reserve developmentThe increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.

Losses incurredThe total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred
losses include a provision for IBNR.













National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the five U.S.
territories organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.

Net written premiumsDirect written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.

Operating income (loss)Net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued
operations and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable.

Operating income (loss) per shareOperating income (loss) on a per share basis.

Operating return on equityThe ratio of operating income to average equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses and
discontinued operations, net of tax.

Paid development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that cumulative paid losses for a given cohort of claims will grow in a
stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort. These age-to-age growth factors are sometimes called "link ratios."

For example, if cumulative paid losses for a product line XYZ for accident year 2004 were $100 as of
December 31, 2004 (12 months after the start of that accident year), then grew to $120 as of December 31, 2005 (24 months after the start), the link ratio for that accident year from 12 to 24 months would be 1.20. If the link
ratio for other recent accident years from 12 to 24 months for that product line were also at or around 1.20, then the method would assume a similar result for the most recent accident year, i.e., that it too would have its cumulative paid
losses grow 120% from the 12 month to 24 month valuation.

This is repeated for each age-to-age period into the future until the age-to-age link ratios for future periods
are assumed to be 1.0 (i.e., the age at which cumulative losses are assumed to have stopped growing).

A given accident year's cumulative losses are then projected to ultimate by multiplying current cumulative
losses by successive age-to-age link ratios up to that future age where growth is expected to end. For example, if growth is expected to end at 60 months, then the ultimate indication for an accident year with cumulative losses at 12 months
equals those losses times a 12 to 24 month link ratio, times a 24 to 36 month link ratio, times a 36 to 48 month link ratio, times a 48 to 60 month link ratio.













Advanced applications of the method include adjustments for changing conditions during the historical period and anticipated
changes in the future.

PoolAn organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums,
 losses and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.

PremiumsThe amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance
company.

Property insuranceInsurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for
that person's or business's property loss, damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsuranceReinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for
each policy covered on a pro rata basis.

RatesAmounts charged per unit of insurance.

RedundancyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the
reserves are greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy
exists) may change as new information becomes available.

Reinstatement premiumsAdditional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of
reinsured losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.

ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer,
agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreementA contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.

Reported claim development methodAn actuarial method to estimate ultimate claim counts for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the reported-to-date counts are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate counts, the result is an indication of the IBNR counts.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method", but based
on the growth in cumulative claim counts rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative claim counts for a given cohort of claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the
cohort.













Residual market (involuntary business)Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of available coverage such
as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers' compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in proportion to the carriers'
voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.

RetentionThe amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to
an insurance policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.

Retention rateCurrent period renewal premiums, accounts or policies as a percentage of total premiums, accounts or policies
available for renewal.

Retrospective premiumsPremiums related to retrospectively rated policies.

Retrospective ratingA plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss
experience, subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.

Return on equityThe ratio of net income to average equity.

Risk-based capital (RBC)A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory capital and surplus
requirements of insurers. Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

Risk retention groupAn alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self
insure their risks.

Runoff businessAn operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a
cessation of writing new business, where allowed by law.

SalvageThe amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a
loss payment.

S-curve methodA mathematical function which depicts an initial slow change, followed by a rapid change and then ending in a
slow change again. This results in an "S" shaped line when depicted graphically. The actuarial application of these curves fit the reported data to date for a particular cohort of claims to an S-curve to project future activity for that
cohort.













Second-injury fundThe employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers' compensation benefit for the most recent
injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self-insureds
based on either premiums or losses.

Self-insured retentionsThat portion of the risk retained by a person for its own account.

Servicing carrierAn insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and
customer service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.

Statutory accounting practices (SAP)The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in
the United States for recording transactions and preparing financial statements. Statutory accounting practices generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.

Statutory surplusAs determined under SAP, the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted
from all admitted assets. Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Statutory surplus is also referred to as "surplus" or "surplus as regards policyholders" for
statutory accounting purposes.

Structured settlementsPeriodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in
settlement of a claim under a liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.

SubrogationA principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim
under a policy, to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.

Third-party liabilityA liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract.
Insured liability claims are referred to as third-party claims.

Treaty reinsuranceThe reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a "treaty") between
a primary insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks
originally written by the primary insurer or reinsured.

Umbrella coverageA form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies
or amounts not covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned surplusThe undistributed and unappropriated amount of statutory surplus.













UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an
appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.

UnderwritingThe insurer's or reinsurer's process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to
whether to accept all or part of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.

Underwriting expense ratioFor SAP, it is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred less other income to net written premiums. For GAAP,
it is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred reduced by an allocation of fee income and billing and policy fees to net earned premiums.

Underwriting gain or lossNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related
expenses.

Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.

Voluntary marketThe market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market
mechanisms.

Wholesale brokerAn independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and nonadmitted insurers in market areas, which
include standard, non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker.

Workers' compensationA system (established under state and federal laws) under which employers provide insurance for benefit payments
to their employees for work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault.









