Item 1.    BUSINESS

The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally
engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and
individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the state of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back
to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located
at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut, and St. Paul,
Minnesota. The term "TRV" in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

For
a summary of the Company's revenues, operating income and total assets by reportable business segments, see note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS

The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent
relationships and methods of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of independent agents, exclusive agents, direct marketing and/or salaried employees. According
to A.M. Best, there are approximately 1,275 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,700 property and casualty companies. Of those groups, the top
150 accounted for approximately 92% of the consolidated industry's total net written premiums in 2013. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers. In addition, several property and
casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional insurance products. These products
include large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The Company's competitive position in the
marketplace is based on many factors, including the following:

•premiums charged;•contract terms and conditions;•products and services offered;•claim service;•agent, broker and client relationships;•local presence;•geographic scope of business;•overall financial strength;•ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;•experience and qualifications of employees; and•technology and information systems.

In
addition, the marketplace is affected by available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by statutory capital and surplus, and the availability of reinsurance from both
traditional sources, such as reinsurance companies, and non-traditional sources, such as hedge funds and pension plans. Industry capacity as measured by statutory capital and surplus expands and
contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through









dividends
and share repurchases. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase statutory capital and surplus.

Pricing and Underwriting

Pricing of the Company's property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses,
the expenses associated with producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money related to the expected loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable allowance for
profit that considers the capital needed to support the Company's business. The Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes product returns and profitable
growth over the long-term rather than premium volume or market share. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The
applicable state laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price
competition. The Company's ability to increase rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements, as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2014:

Location% ofTotalDomestic:California9.6%New York9.6Texas7.2Pennsylvania4.6Illinois4.0Florida3.9New Jersey3.8Massachusetts3.1Georgia3.0All other domestic(1)42.9​​​​​Total domestic91.7​​​​​International:Canada5.6All other international(1)2.7​​​​​Total international8.3​​​​​Consolidated total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of the Company's consolidated direct written premiums written in 2014.

Catastrophe Exposure

The wide geographic distribution of the Company's property and casualty insurance operations exposes it to claims arising out of
catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze









underwriting
risks of business in natural catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorist attacks (defined as attacks other than nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological
events). The Company relies, in part, upon these analyses to make underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. For example, as a result of these analyses,
the Company has limited the writing of new property and homeowners business in some markets and has selectively taken underwriting actions on new and existing business. These underwriting actions on
new and existing business include tightened underwriting standards, selective price increases and changes to deductibles specific to hurricane-, tornado-, wind- and hail-prone areas. See
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling" and "—Changing Climate Conditions." The
Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See "—Reinsurance."

Segment Realignment

On June 10, 2014, the Company announced a realignment of its management team, effective July 1, 2014, that gave rise to a
realignment of two of its three reportable business segments, as follows:

•The Company's International Insurance group, which had previously been included in the Financial, Professional & International
Insurance segment, was combined with the Company's previous Business Insurance segment to create a new Business and International Insurance segment.•The Bond & Financial Products group, which comprised the remaining businesses in the Financial, Professional &
International Insurance segment, now comprises the new Bond & Specialty Insurance segment.•The Personal Insurance segment was not impacted by these changes.

The
realignment of segments described above was made to reflect the realignment of the Company's senior management responsibilities and the manner in which the Company's businesses have
been managed starting July 1, 2014, and the aggregation of products and services based on the type of customer, how the business is marketed and the manner in which risks are underwritten.

The
following discussion of the Company's reportable business segments reflects the realigned segment reporting structure. Financial data for all prior periods presented was reclassified
to be consistent with the 2014 presentation.

BUSINESS AND INTERNATIONAL INSURANCE

The Business and International Insurance segment offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance related services
to its clients, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd's. Business and
International Insurance is organized as follows:

Domestic•Select Accountsprovides small businesses with property and casualty products,
including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance.•Middle Marketprovides mid-sized businesses with property and casualty products,
including commercial multi-peril, commercial property, general liability, commercial auto and workers' compensation insurance, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services. Middle
Market generally provides these products to mid-sized businesses throughCommercial Accounts,as well as to targeted industries
throughConstruction, Technology, Public Sector ServicesandOil & Gas. Middle Market also
provides mono-line umbrella and excess coverage insurance









throughExcess Casualtyand insurance coverages for foreign organizations with United States exposures throughGlobal Partner
Services.

•

National Accountsprovides large companies with casualty products and services,
including workers' compensation, general liability and automobile liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis. National Accounts also includes the
Company's commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers' compensation products and services to the involuntary market.

•

First Partyprovides traditional and customized property insurance programs to large
and mid-sized customers throughNational Property,insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, as well as builders' risk insurance,
throughInland Marine, insurance for the marine transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international
trade, throughOcean Marine,and comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption coverages,
throughBoiler & Machinery.

•

Specialized Distributionmarkets and underwrites its products to customers
predominantly through brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents that manage customers' unique insurance requirements. Specialized Distribution provides insurance
coverage for the commercial transportation industry, as well as commercial liability and commercial property policies for small, difficult to place specialty classes of commercial business primarily
on an excess and surplus lines basis, throughNorthland,and tailored property and casualty programs on an admitted basis for customers with common risk
characteristics or coverage requirements throughNational Programs. Specialized Distribution also serves small to medium-sized agricultural businesses,
including farms, ranches, wineries and related operations, throughAgribusiness.

International•International,through its operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic
of Ireland, offers property and casualty insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, public services, and financial and
professional services industry sectors. In addition, International markets personal lines and small commercial insurance business in Canada through The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company
(Dominion), which the Company acquired on November 1, 2013. International, through its Lloyd's syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, underwrites five
principal businesses—marine, global property, accident & special risks, power & utilities and aviation.

International
also includes the Company's 49.5% ownership of the common stock of J. Malucelli Participações em Seguros e Resseguros S.A. (JMalucelli), its joint
venture in Brazil. JMalucelli is currently the market leader in surety in Brazil based on market share. JMalucelli commenced writing other property and casualty insurance business in 2012. The
Company's investment in JMalucelli is accounted for using the equity method and is included in "other investments" on the consolidated balance sheet.In
December 2014, the Company announced that its joint venture with JMalucelli in Brazil will acquire a majority interest in Cardinal Compañía de Seguros, a Colombian
start-up surety provider. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.

Business
and International Insurance also includes the Special Liability Group (which manages the Company's asbestos and environmental liabilities) and the assumed reinsurance and
certain other runoff operations, which are collectively referred to as Business and International Insurance Other.









Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth the Business and International Insurance segment's net written premiums by market and product line for
the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "—Product Lines,"
respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201420132012% of Total2014By market:Domestic:Select Accounts$2,707$2,724$2,77518.5%Middle Market6,1085,8625,65441.7National Accounts1,0471,0109077.2First Party1,5791,5521,43610.8Specialized Distribution1,0741,0851,1007.3​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic12,51512,23311,87285.5International2,1211,2791,05714.5​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business and International Insurance by market$14,636$13,512$12,929100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​By product line:Domestic:Workers' compensation$3,794$3,642$3,40025.9%Commercial automobile1,8921,8971,92412.9Commercial property1,7931,7481,64712.3General liability1,8911,8231,76512.9Commercial multi-peril3,1033,0833,10021.2Other4240360.3​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Domestic12,51512,23311,87285.5International2,1211,2791,05714.5​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Business and International Insurance by product line$14,636$13,512$12,929100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

The Business and International Insurance segment distributes its products through approximately 11,400 independent agencies and
brokers. Agencies and brokers are serviced by 133 field offices and three customer service centers.

Business
and International Insurance continues to make significant investments in enhanced technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities
with independent agencies and brokers. Business and International Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent
agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business and International Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's financial strength, staff experience and strategic
fit with the Company's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business and International Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products offered
in the United States are distributed through a common base of independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company's Personal Insurance products. Additionally, several operations may
underwrite business with agents that specialize in servicing the needs of certain of the industries served by these operations.









•

Select Accountsis a leading provider of commercial property and casualty insurance
products to small businesses in the U.S., generally with fewer than 50 employees, and sells these products through a large network of independent agents and brokers. Products offered by Select
Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures. Each small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform
which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of new small business risks at their desktop in an efficient manner that significantly reduces the time period between
quoting a price on a new policy and issuing that policy. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel. Select Accounts has established a strong
marketing relationship with its distribution network and has provided this network with defined underwriting policies, a broad array of products and competitive prices. In addition, the Company has
established centralized service centers to help agents perform many service functions, in return for a fee.

•

Middle Marketsells a broad range of commercial property and casualty insurance
products and services through a large network of independent agents and brokers, primarily targeting mid-sized businesses in the U.S. with 50 to 1,000 employees. The Company offers a full line of
products to its Middle Market customers with an emphasis on guaranteed cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the
account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Middle Market to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base. Within Middle Market, products and services are tailored
to certain targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claim, risk management or other insurance-related products and services.

•

National Accountssells a variety of casualty products and services to large companies
in the U.S. through a network of national and regional brokers, primarily utilizing loss-sensitive products in connection with a large deductible or self-insured program and, to a lesser extent, a
retrospectively rated or a guaranteed cost insurance policy. National Accounts also provides casualty products and services through retail brokers on an unbundled basis, using third-party
administrators for insureds who utilize programs such as collateralized deductibles, captive reinsurers and self-insurance. National Accounts provides insurance-related services, such as risk
management services, claims administration, loss control and risk management information services, either in addition to, or in lieu of, pure risk coverage, and generated $251 million of fee
income in 2014, excluding commercial residual market business. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts sells claims and policy management services to workers' compensation pools
throughout the United States, and generated $132 million of fee income in 2014. National Accounts services approximately 34% of the total workers' compensation assigned risk market, making the
Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry. Workers' compensation accounted for approximately 76% of sales to National Accounts customers during 2014, based on direct written
premiums and fees.

•

First Partymarkets commercial property and casualty insurance products and services
through a large network of agents and brokers to a wide customer base in the U.S. having specialized property and casualty coverage requirements. First Party provides traditional and customized
property insurance programs to large and mid-sized customers, insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, builders' risk insurance, insurance for the marine transportation industry and related
services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade. In addition, First Party provides comprehensive breakdown coverages for equipment, including property and business interruption
coverages.

•

Specialized Distributiondistributes admitted as well as excess and surplus lines
property and casualty products predominantly through selected brokers, wholesale agents, program managers









and
specialized retail agents, including on a brokerage and delegated authority underwriting basis. These brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents operate in certain
markets in the U.S. that are not typically served by the Company's appointed retail agents, or they maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and
surplus lines market, which is characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with agents or program managers on
a brokerage basis, Specialized Distribution underwrites the business and sets the premium level. In working with agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce
and underwrite business subject to underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.•Internationaldistributes its products, principally through brokers, in each of the
countries in which it operates. International also writes business at Lloyd's, where its products are distributed through Lloyd's wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd's worldwide licenses,
the Business and International Insurance segment has access to international markets across the world.

Pricing and Underwriting

Business and International Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for
particular industries, in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. The
Company utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.

Product Lines

The Business and International Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages:

Domestic

•Workers'
Compensation.Provides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to
employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers' compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death









benefits
and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a cooperative effort that
focuses on the injured employee's early return to work and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers' compensation products:•guaranteed-cost insurance products, in which policy premium charges are fixed for the period of coverage and do not vary
as a result of the insured's loss experience;•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, in which fees or
premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company's National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees
rather than premiums for providing loss prevention, risk management, and claim and benefit administration services to organizations under service agreements.

The
Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.

•

Commercial
Automobile.Provides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties,
property damage to an insured's vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.

•

Commercial
Property.Provides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment from a variety of events, including, among
others, hurricanes and other windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and
financial loss due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. For additional information on terrorism coverages, see "Reinsurance—Catastrophe
Reinsurance—Terrorism Risk Insurance Program." Property also includes specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of
boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.

•

General
Liability.Provides coverages for businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising
out of their operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products sold. Specialized liability policies may also include coverage for directors' and officers' liability arising in
their official capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and
omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.

•

Commercial
Multi-Peril.Provides a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line descriptions.

International

•Provides coverage for auto and motor (similar to automobile coverage in the United States), personal property, employers' liability
(similar to workers' compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability (the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability
coverage), commercial property, surety, marine, aviation, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related
liability, offshore energy, ports and terminals, fine art and









terrorism.
Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident
provides financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while
kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal
environments can make the product risks and coverage terms potentially very different from those the Company faces in the United States.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Business and International Insurance segment as of
January 1, 2015. For third-party liability, Business and International Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $18.8 million per
insured, per occurrence. For property exposures, Business and International Insurance generally limits its net retained amount per risk to $20.0 million per occurrence, after reinsurance.
Business and International Insurance generally retains its workers' compensation exposures. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions
if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Business and International Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk
basis. Business and International Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business and International Insurance's direct written premiums for the year
ended December 31, 2014:

Location% ofTotalDomestic:California11.1%New York7.4Texas6.7Illinois4.5Pennsylvania3.4Florida3.4New Jersey3.4Massachusetts3.0All other domestic(1)44.0​​​​​Total domestic86.9​​​​​International:Canada9.0All other international(1)4.1​​​​​Total international13.1​​​​​Total Business and International Insurance100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state or country accounted for 3.0% or more of the Business and International Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014.









Competition

The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other
entities offering risk alternatives, such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition works within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for insurance
products and the levels of coverage and service provided. A company's success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to profitably provide insurance and
services, including claims handling and risk control, at prices and terms that retain existing customers and attract new customers.

Domestic

Competitors typically write Select Accounts business through independent agents and, to a lesser extent, regional brokers and as direct
writers. Both national and regional property and casualty insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower-hazard, "Main Street" business customers. Risks are
underwritten and priced using standard industry practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is primarily based on product offerings,
service levels, ease of doing business and price.

Competitors
typically write Middle Market business through independent agents and brokers. Several of Middle Market's operations require unique combinations of industry knowledge,
customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Competitors in this market are primarily
national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product
offerings, service levels, price and claim and loss prevention services. Efficiency through automation and rapid response time to agent, broker and customer needs is one key to success in this market.

In
the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems
and collateral requirements. National Accounts primarily competes with national property and casualty
insurance companies, as well as with other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, and a
variety of other risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market division competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services.

First
Party and Specialized Distribution compete in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized
coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these businesses compete with national carriers
with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Each of these businesses has regional structures that allow them to deliver
personalized service and local knowledge to their customer base. Specialized agents and brokers, including wholesale agents and program managers, supplement this strategy. In all of these businesses,
the competitive strategy typically is the application of focused industry knowledge to insurance and risk needs.

International

International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings and the level of claim and risk management services provided. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries
similar to those served in the United States and provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets.







At Lloyd's, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd's market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets
where the Lloyd's operation writes business worldwide. Competition is again based on price, product and service. The Company focuses on lines it believes it can underwrite effectively and profitably
with an emphasis on short-tail insurance lines.

BOND & SPECIALTY INSURANCE

The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment provides surety, crime, management and professional liability coverages and related risk
management services to a wide range of primarily domestic customers, utilizing various degrees of financially-based underwriting approaches. The range of coverages includes performance, payment and
commercial surety and fidelity bonds for construction and general commercial enterprises; management liability coverages for losses caused by the actual or alleged negligence or misconduct of
directors and officers or employee dishonesty; employment practices liability coverages and fiduciary coverages for public corporations, private companies and not-for-profit organizations;
professional liability coverage for actual or alleged errors and omissions committed in the course of professional conduct or practice for a variety of professionals
including, among others, lawyers and design professionals; and professional and management liability, property, workers' compensation, auto and general liability and fidelity insurance for financial
institutions.

Selected Market and Product Information

The following table sets forth Bond & Specialty Insurance net written premiums by product line for the periods indicated. For a
description of the product lines referred to in the table, see "Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution" and "Product Lines," respectively.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201420132012% of Total2014Fidelity and surety$963$918$89545.8%General liability96193485945.7Other1791781708.5​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Bond & Specialty Insurance$2,103$2,030$1,924100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Bond & Specialty Insurance distributes the vast majority of its products in the United States through approximately 6,000 of the
same independent agencies and brokers that distribute the Business and International Insurance segment's products in the U.S. The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment, in conjunction with the
Business and International Insurance segment, continues to make investments in enhanced technology utilizing internet-based applications to provide real-time interface capabilities with its
independent agencies and brokers. Bond & Specialty Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and
brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Specialty Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's or broker's profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic
fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely monitored.

Pricing and Underwriting

Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for
specific accounts and industries, in conjunction with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing
parameters. The Company utilizes both standard industry forms and proprietary forms for the insurance policies it issues.









Product Lines

The Bond & Specialty Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages:

•Fidelity and
Surety.Provides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an
employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.
Surety is generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other performance bonds.•General
Liability.Provides coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the "Business and International
Insurance" section of this report.•Other.Coverages include Property, Workers' Compensation, Commercial Automobile and
Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in more detail in the "Business and International Insurance" section of this report.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment as of
January 1, 2015. For third party liability, including but not limited to umbrella liability, professional liability, directors' and officers' liability, and employment practices liability,
Bond & Specialty Insurance generally limits net retentions to $25.0 million per policy. For surety protection, where insured limits are often significant, Bond & Specialty
Insurance generally retains up to $115.0 million probable maximum loss (PML) per principal but may retain higher amounts based on the type of obligation, credit quality and other credit risk
factors. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Bond & Specialty Insurance
utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Bond & Specialty Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those
described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Bond & Specialty Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2014:

State% ofTotalCalifornia10.5%New York7.8Texas7.4Florida5.3Illinois4.8Pennsylvania4.2Massachusetts3.3All other(1)56.7​​​​​Total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014.









Competition

The competitive landscape in which the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment operates is affected by many of the same factors
described previously for the Business and International Insurance segment. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies that write most classes of
business and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.

Bond &
Specialty Insurance underwrites and markets its products to all sizes of businesses and other organizations, as well as individuals. The Company believes that its
reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to
offer its customers a full range of products, provides Bond & Specialty Insurance an advantage over many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic
marketplace. The Company believes that the ability of the Bond & Specialty Insurance segment to cross-sell its products to customers of the Business and International Insurance and Personal
Insurance segments provides additional competitive advantages for the Company.

PERSONAL INSURANCE

The Company's Personal Insurance segment writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals' personal risks.
The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.

Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information

The following table sets forth net written premiums for the Personal Insurance segment's business by product line for the periods
indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see "—Product Lines." In addition, see "—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution"
for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance's product lines.

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)201420132012% of Total2014By product line:Automobile$3,390$3,370$3,64247.3%Homeowners and Other3,7753,8553,95252.7​​​​​​​​​​​​​​Total Personal Insurance$7,165$7,225$7,594100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Personal Insurance products are distributed primarily through approximately 11,100 active independent agencies located throughout the
United States, supported by personnel in nine sales regions. In addition, sales and service are provided to customers through five contact centers. While the principal markets for Personal Insurance
products continue to be in states along the East Coast, California and Texas, the business continues to expand its geographic presence across the United States. See "Competition" below for a
discussion of the Company's newest private passenger automobile product, Quantum Auto 2.0.

In
selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency's profitability, financial stability, staff experience
and strategic fit with the segment's operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully monitors its performance.

Agents
can access the Company's agency service portal for a number of resources including customer service, marketing and claims management. In addition, agencies can choose to shift the









ongoing
service responsibility for Personal Insurance's customers to one of the Company's Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of customer
service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately 1,600 agents take advantage of this service alternative, for which they generally pay a fee.

Personal
Insurance also distributes its products through additional channels, including corporations that make the company's product offerings available to their employees primarily
through payroll deduction, consumer associations and affinity groups. Personal Insurance handles the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or through the
Company's contact center locations. In addition, since 1995, the Company has had a marketing agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for certain of their auto customers.

In
2009, the Company began marketing its insurance products directly to consumers, largely through online channels. The investment in the direct-to-consumer initiative has generated
growing but still modest premium volume for Personal Insurance in recent years, which was consistent with the Company's expectations. The direct-to-consumer initiative, while intended to enhance the
Company's long-term ability to compete successfully in a consumer-driven marketplace, is expected to remain modest with respect to premium volume and remain unprofitable for a number of years as the
Company continues to develop, test and evaluate this distribution channel.

Pricing and Underwriting

Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claim, actuarial and
product development. This approach is designed to maintain high quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary data accumulated over many years is analyzed and Personal
Insurance uses a variety of risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation. The Company's product management area establishes underwriting guidelines integrated with its filed
pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to effectively execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

The
Company's ability or willingness to raise prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the
competitive environment, the evolving political environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. The









Company
also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write in some states for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other commercial or personal underwriting opportunities. In
choosing to write business in some states, the Company also considers the costs and benefits of those states' residual markets and guaranty funds, as well as other property and casualty business the
Company writes in those states.

Product Lines

The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners and other insurance sold to individuals. Personal
Insurance had approximately 6.2 million active policies (e.g., policies-in-force) at December 31, 2014.

The
Personal Insurance segment writes the following types of coverages:

•Personal Automobileprovides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury
and property damage, uninsured motorist protection, and for physical damage to an insured's own vehicle from collision, fire, flood, hail and theft. In addition, many states require policies to
provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.•Homeowners and Otherprovides protection against losses to dwellings and contents from
a variety of perils (excluding flooding) as well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and tenants, and rental properties. The Company
also writes coverage for boats and yachts and valuable personal items such as jewelry, and also writes coverages for umbrella liability, identity fraud, and weddings and special events.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk

The following discussion reflects the Company's retention policy with respect to the Personal Insurance segment as of January 1,
2015. Personal Insurance generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is an $8.0 million maximum retention per risk. Personal
Insurance issues umbrella policies up to a maximum limit of $10.0 million per risk. Personal Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual
characteristics of the risk.









Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance's direct written premiums for the year ended
December 31, 2014:

State% ofTotalNew York15.0%Texas(1)8.2Pennsylvania7.3California6.1New Jersey5.1Georgia4.7Florida4.5Connecticut4.4Virginia4.3Maryland3.4Massachusetts3.1All others(2)33.9​​​​​Total100.0%​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

(1)The
percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer.(2)No
other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Personal Insurance segment's direct written premiums in 2014.

Competition

Although national companies write the majority of this business, Personal Insurance also faces competition from many regional and
hundreds of local companies. Personal Insurance primarily competes based on breadth of product offerings, price, service (including claims handling), ease of doing business, stability of the insurer
and name recognition. Personal Insurance competes for business within each independent agency since these agencies also offer policies of competing companies. At the agency level, competition is
primarily based on price, service (including claims handling), the level of automation and the development of long-term relationships with individual agents. In recent years, most independent personal
insurance agents have begun utilizing price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as "comparative raters," as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Because
the use of this technology facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business. Personal
Insurance also competes with insurance companies that use exclusive agents or salaried employees to sell their products, as well as those that employ direct marketing strategies. See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability."

The
Agency Automobile line of business has been negatively impacted by various factors, including the use of price comparison technology by agents and brokers as discussed above. The
Company's actions in response to these factors have included, among other things, the reduction of claim adjustment and other insurance expenses, with the majority of the impact in the Agency
Automobile line of business. At December 31, 2014, these actions to reduce costs have resulted in an expected annual decrease of $140 million in pre-tax expenses in 2015 when compared
with expense levels prior to their implementation. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company launched its newest private passenger automobile product, Quantum Auto 2.0. This product, in
addition to incorporating









the
cost savings described above, has a lower base commission rate than the Company's existing Quantum Auto 1.0 product. These changes in cost structure enabled the Company to price Quantum Auto 2.0
more competitively while maintaining expected returns at appropriate levels. By December 31, 2014, the Company offered Quantum Auto 2.0 in approximately 90% of the states where it plans to
offer the product, and the Company currently expects that, by the end of 2015, it will offer the product in all of those states. The Company intends that, in approved states, all new accounts will be
written using Quantum Auto 2.0. In addition, Quantum Auto 2.0 is available to agents at their discretion for existing accounts.

CLAIMS MANAGEMENT

The Company's claim functions are managed through its Claims Services organization, with locations in the United States and in the
countries where it does business. With more than 11,000 employees, Claims Services employs a group of professionals with diverse skills, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys,
investigators, engineers, accountants, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as investigators, attorneys and, in the rare
circumstances when necessary, independent adjusters and appraisers, are available for use as appropriate.

U.S.
field claim management teams located in 21 claim centers and 53 satellite and specialty-only offices in 45 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim
characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company's business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, required licenses, resources and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of
those businesses, with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment. The Company's home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow
design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits
the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims
management for International, while generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, is also managed by the
Company's Claims Services organization in the U.S. to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An
integral part of the Company's strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative
Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts who investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This staff also
has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are reported
to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.

Claims
Services uses technology, management information and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results in order to evaluate and improve its claims
management performance. The Company's claims management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company
continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a state-of-the-art
claims training facility which offers hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In recent years, the Company has invested significant additional
resources in many of its claim handling operations and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent optimization among outcomes, cost and service.

Claims
Services' catastrophe response strategy is to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel, enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjusters and
appraisers. The









Company
has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of a catastrophe
that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these internal resources were successfully deployed to respond to a record number of
catastrophe claims.

REINSURANCE

The
Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including:

•facultative reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy and each
policy reinsured is separately negotiated;•quota share reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for
each policy covered on a pro rata basis;•treaty reinsurance, in which reinsurance is provided for a specified type or category of risks; and•catastrophe reinsurance, in which the Company is indemnified for an agreed upon amount of contractual loss in excess of a specified
retention with respect to losses resulting from a catastrophic event.

For
a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see note 16 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.

Included
in reinsurance recoverables are amounts related to structured settlements, which are annuities purchased from various life insurance companies to settle certain personal
physical injury claims, of which workers' compensation claims comprise a significant portion. In cases where the Company did not receive a release from the claimant, the amount due from the life
insurance company related to the structured settlement is included in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as a reinsurance recoverable and the related claim cost is included in the liability for
claims and claim adjustment expense reserves, as the Company retains the contingent liability to the claimant. If it is expected that the life insurance company is not able to pay, the Company would
recognize an impairment of the related reinsurance recoverable if, and to the extent, the purchased annuities are not covered by state guaranty associations. In the event that the life insurance
company fails to make the required annuity payments, the Company would be required to make such payments.







Catastrophe Reinsurance

Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, the Company has
entered
into a reinsurance agreement that covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from one or multiple occurrences: 75% ($1.50 billion) of qualifying losses covered by the treaty and
25% ($500 million) of qualifying losses retained by the Company part of $2.0 billion excess of $3.0 billion. Qualifying losses for each occurrence are after a $100 million
deductible. The treaty covers all of the Company's exposures in the United States and Canada and their territories and possessions, the Caribbean Islands, Mexico and all waters contiguous thereto. The
treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. This treaty replaced the
Company's General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty, which was cancelled on a cut-off basis effective December 31, 2014, and the General Catastrophe Aggregate Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty,
which expired on December 31, 2014.

Catastrophe Bonds.The Company has catastrophe protection through two indemnity reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III Ltd.
(Long Point
Re III), an independent Cayman Islands company licensed as a Class B insurer in the Cayman Islands. The reinsurance agreements expire in June 2015 and May 2016, respectively, and provide
coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. Both reinsurance agreements meet the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with
the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with each reinsurance agreement, Long Point Re III issued notes (generally referred to as "catastrophe bonds") to investors in an amount equal to
the full coverage provided under the respective reinsurance agreement as described below.

On
June 6, 2012, Long Point Re III completed an offering to unrelated investors of $250 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with the
offering, the Company and Long Point Re III entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement providing coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United States. The
proceeds of the offering were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage are reset annually to maintain modeled probabilities of attachment
and expected loss on the respective catastrophe bonds equal to the initial modeled probabilities of attachment and expected loss. The attachment point, maximum limit and insurance percentage were
reset in April 2014. Accordingly,









for
the period May 1, 2014 through June 6, 2015, the Company will be entitled to begin recovering amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the losses in the covered area for a single
occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $1.772 billion. The full $250 million coverage amount is available on a proportional basis until covered losses reach a maximum
$2.331 billion.

On
May 16, 2013, Long Point Re III completed a second offering to unrelated investors of $300 million aggregate principal amount of catastrophe bonds. In connection with
the offering, the Company and Long Point Re III entered into a three-year reinsurance agreement providing for coverage to the Company for certain losses from a hurricane in the northeastern United
States. Similar to the first arrangement with Long Point Re III, the proceeds of the offering were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The attachment point and maximum limit are reset annually,
with the ability of the Company to adjust the expected loss of the coverage layer (the difference between the attachment point and the maximum limit) within a predetermined range. The attachment
point, maximum limit and insurance percentage were reset in April 2014. Accordingly, for the period May 17, 2014 through May 16, 2015, the Company will be entitled to begin recovering
amounts under the reinsurance agreement if the losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $1.222 billion. The full $300 million coverage
amount is available on a proportional basis until covered losses reach a maximum $1.772 billion.

The
business covered by these reinsurance agreements is a subset of the Company's overall insurance portfolio, comprising property insurance and related coverages spread across the
following geographic locations: Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Vermont. The
coverage under both reinsurance agreements is limited to specified property coverage written in the Company's Personal Insurance segment, and within Select Accounts and Commercial Accounts in the
Company's Business and International Insurance segment.

Under
the terms of both reinsurance agreements, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Long Point Re III for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable to the
Company under both reinsurance agreements with respect to any covered event cannot exceed the Company's actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the respective catastrophe bond will be
reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the respective reinsurance agreement.

As
with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Long Point Re III, the credit risk is mitigated by
reinsurance trust accounts that have been funded by Long Point Re III with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations and obligations backed by the U.S. government with
maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor's on the issuance date of the bonds and thereafter
must be rated by Standard & Poor's. Other permissible investments include money market funds which invest in repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government obligations and obligations of any agency backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash.

At
the time the agreements were entered into with Long Point Re III, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs.
Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights
to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity's operations, or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the
entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE's activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity's expected residual
returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company's financial statements.









As
a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreements with Long Point Re III, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and
(b) above were present. However, while Long Point Re III was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its
results, caused by the reinsurance agreements, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III and residual amounts earned by it, if any, are
expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Long Point Re III).

Accordingly,
the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III and does not consolidate that entity in the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally,
because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III, the consolidation of that entity
in the Company's consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

The
Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted or are expected to result in a recovery under the Long Point Re III agreements since their inception.

Northeast General Catastrophe Reinsurance Treaty.In addition to its Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty and its
multi-year
catastrophe bonds, the Company also is party to a northeast general catastrophe reinsurance treaty which provides up to $850 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention,
for certain losses arising from hurricanes, tornados, hail storms, earthquakes and winter storm or freeze losses from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2014 through June 30,
2015. Losses from a covered event (occurring over several days) anywhere in the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico and waters contiguous thereto may be used to satisfy the retention.
Recoveries under the catastrophe bonds (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to this treaty.

Business and International Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period July 1, 2014 through
June 30, 2015,
the Company has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $150 million part of $165 million of coverage, subject to a $60 million retention, for
losses arising from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by Technology, Public Sector Services and Commercial Accounts in the Company's
Business and International Insurance segment.

Personal Insurance Earthquake Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.For the period January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015, the
Company
has entered into an earthquake excess-of-loss treaty that provides for up to $200 million of coverage, subject to a $150 million retention, for losses arising from an earthquake,
including fire following and sprinkler leakage incurred under policies written by the Company's Personal Insurance segment.

Canadian Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Contract.This contract, effective for the period July 1, 2014 through
and including
June 30, 2015, covers the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence on business written by the Company's Canadian businesses. The treaty covers all property written by
the Company's Canadian businesses for Canadian insureds, including, but not limited to, habitational property, commercial property, inland marine, ocean marine and auto physical damages exposures,
with respect to risks located worldwide, written for Canadian insureds. The treaty provides coverage for 100% of loss retained in excess of C$50 million (US$43 million at
December 31, 2014) up to C$900 million (US$775 million at December 31, 2014).

Other International Reinsurance Treaties.For other business underwritten in Canada, as well as for business written in the United
Kingdom, Republic
of Ireland and in the Company's operations at Lloyd's, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the respective local
balance sheet. The Company conducts an ongoing review of its risk and catastrophe coverages and makes changes as it deems appropriate.









Terrorism Risk Insurance Program.The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program is a Federal program administered by the Department of the
Treasury that
provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from certified acts of terrorism. In January 2015, the program was reauthorized through
December 31, 2020. For a further description of the program, including the Company's estimated deductible under the program in 2015, see note 5 of notes to the Company's consolidated
financial statements and "Item 1A—Risk Factors—Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or
liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance."

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES

Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management's estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment
expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported.

The
Company continually refines its reserve estimates in a regular ongoing process that includes review of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The
Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries
for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are also reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and
a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical
Accounting Estimates."

The
process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the "Critical Accounting
Estimates" section of "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") are affected by both internal and external events, such as
changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends and legislative changes, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is
difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus occurrence), claim
complexity, the volume of claims, the
potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported
to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The
Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development on reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for
each type of exposure and business unit. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns of the
relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each line of business and type of exposure. For a description of the Company's reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and
Litigation."

Discounting

The claims and claim adjustment expense reserves for most long-term disability and annuity claim payments, primarily arising from
workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, were discounted to the present value of estimated future payments using a rate of 5% at both December 31,
2014 and 2013. These discounted reserves totaled $2.01 billion and $2.21 billion at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.









Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense Development Table

The table that follows sets forth the year-end reserves from 2004 through 2014 and the subsequent changes in those reserves, presented
on a historical basis. The original estimates, cumulative amounts paid and re-estimated reserves in the table for 2004 through 2012 have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Dominion in
November 2013. The table includes Dominion's reserves beginning at December 31, 2013.

The
data in the table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Care must be taken to avoid misinterpretation by those
unfamiliar with this information or familiar with other data commonly reported by the insurance industry. The data in the table is not accident year data, but rather a display of 2004 to 2014 year-end
reserves and the subsequent changes in those reserves.

For
instance, the cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table for each year represents the aggregate amount by which original estimates of reserves as of that year-end have
changed in subsequent years. Accordingly, the cumulative deficiency or redundancy for a year relates only to reserves at that year-end and those amounts are not additive. Expressed another way, if the
original reserves at the end of 2004 included $4 million for a loss that is finally paid in 2008 for $5 million, the $1 million deficiency (the excess of the actual payment of
$5 million over the original estimate of $4 million) would be included in the cumulative deficiency for 2004 and would also be reflected as a reduction in the cumulative redundancies in
each of the years 2005 to 2007 shown in the accompanying table.

Various
factors may distort the re-estimated reserves and cumulative deficiency or redundancy shown in the table. For example, a substantial portion of the cumulative deficiency shown in
the table for 2004 arise from claims on policies written prior to the mid-1980s involving liability exposures such as asbestos and environmental claims. In the post-1984 period, the Company has
developed more stringent underwriting standards and policy exclusions and has significantly contracted or terminated the writing of these risks. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation," and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation." General conditions and trends that
have affected the development of these liabilities in the past will not necessarily recur in the future.

Other
factors that affect the data in the table include the discounting of certain reserves (as discussed above) and the use of retrospectively rated insurance policies. For example,
reserves for long-term disability and annuity claim payments (tabular reserves), primarily arising from workers' compensation insurance and workers' compensation excess insurance policies, are
discounted to reflect the time value of money. Apparent deficiencies will continue to occur as the discount on these workers' compensation reserves is accreted at the appropriate interest rates. Also,
a portion of National Accounts business is underwritten with retrospectively rated insurance policies in which the ultimate loss experience is primarily borne by the insured. For this business,
increases in loss experience result in an increase in reserves and an offsetting increase in amounts recoverable from insureds. Likewise, decreases in loss experience result in a decrease in reserves
and an offsetting decrease in amounts recoverable from these insureds. The amounts recoverable on these retrospectively rated policies mitigate the impact of the cumulative deficiencies or
redundancies on the Company's earnings but are not reflected in the table.









Because
of these and other factors, it is difficult to develop a meaningful extrapolation of estimated future redundancies or deficiencies in loss reserves from the data in the table.





(at December 31, in millions)20042005200620072008200920102011201220132014

Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expense originally estimated$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255$40,919$40,634$41,585$41,036

Cumulative amounts paid as of

One year later8,8718,6327,4178,1467,5197,7487,6538,3268,4168,099

Two years later14,66613,83713,18112,79812,45412,37412,56713,44713,452

Three years later18,73318,46616,54516,26415,66815,70816,08117,049

Four years later22,51421,02519,11318,52418,05318,12618,634

Five years later24,57222,99220,82020,24419,82419,957

Six years later26,18924,42322,20521,60921,319

Seven years later27,46925,61623,38122,869

Eight years later28,55726,67524,534

Nine years later29,54327,741

Ten years later30,570

Reserves re-estimated as of

One year later41,70642,46642,17241,37339,86339,52439,41339,84539,69040,628

Two years later42,56542,31140,83739,92538,64038,42138,39338,96438,931

Three years later42,94041,69239,73938,84237,61337,53937,57638,402

Four years later43,14840,85538,73438,22336,89236,88937,179

Five years later42,65540,02638,40937,71636,36136,605

Six years later42,06839,84938,13437,32336,240

Seven years later42,01939,69437,85837,356

Eight years later41,98739,51837,977

Nine years later41,94239,705

Ten years later42,142

Cumulative deficiency (redundancy)696(3,190)(4,867)(5,742)(5,072)(4,336)(3,076)(2,517)(1,703)(957)

Gross liability—end of year$59,438$61,461$59,677$58,094$55,121$53,529$51,537$51,353$50,888$50,865$49,824

Reinsurance recoverables17,99218,56616,83314,99613,80912,58811,28210,43410,2549,2808,788

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Net liability—end of year$41,446$42,895$42,844$43,098$41,312$40,941$40,255$40,919$40,634$41,585$41,036

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Gross re-estimated liability-latest$59,868$57,503$53,285$50,896$48,407$47,705$47,436$48,152$49,255$49,814

Re-estimated reinsurance recoverables-latest17,72617,79815,30813,54012,16711,10010,2579,75010,3249,186

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Net re-estimated liability-latest$42,142$39,705$37,977$37,356$36,240$36,605$37,179$38,402$38,931$40,628

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

Gross cumulative deficiency (redundancy)$430$(3,958)$(6,392)$(7,198)$(6,714)$(5,824)$(4,101)$(3,201)$(1,633)$(1,051)

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​

For
years prior to 2013, the table excludes reserves of Dominion, which were acquired by the Company on November 1, 2013. Accordingly, the reserve development for years prior to
2013 does not include reserve development recorded by Dominion. At December 31, 2013, Dominion's gross reserves were $2,110 million, and net reserves were $1,779 million.

In
December 2008, the Company completed the sale of Unionamerica Holdings Limited (Unionamerica), which comprised its United Kingdom (U.K.)-based runoff insurance and reinsurance
businesses. Immediately before the sale, the claims and claim adjustment expense reserves of Unionamerica totaled $790 million. As a result of the sale, those obligations ceased being the
responsibility of the Company and its affiliates. The sale is reflected in the table as a reduction in December 31, 2008 net reserves of $790 million and as a $790 million
increase in paid losses for each of the years 2004 through 2007 to reflect the transfer (payment) of the reserves to the buyer, resulting in no impact to incurred losses.









The
gross and net cumulative deficiency (redundancy) by calendar year as set forth in the table above includes the following impact of unfavorable prior year reserve development related
to asbestos and environmental claims and claim adjustment expenses, in millions:

Asbestos2004200520062007200820092010201120122013Gross$2,361$1,527$1,330$1,331$1,261$1,076$814$619$448$258Net$2,172$1,341$1,185$1,185$1,115$930$790$615$440$250Environmental2004200520062007200820092010201120122013Gross$867$850$742$560$475$390$345$265$166$94Net$843$813$693$508$423$353$318$242$152$87

Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis

At December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) shown in the preceding
table, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves), were $29 million higher, $17 million higher and $22 million lower,
respectively, than those reported in the Company's respective annual reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves).

The
differences between GAAP and statutory reserves are primarily due to the differences in GAAP and statutory accounting for two items: (1) fees associated with billing of
required reimbursements under large deductible business, and (2) the accounting for retroactive reinsurance. For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty
insurance claim and then seeks
reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. This fee is reported as fee income for GAAP reporting, but as an offset to claim expenses paid for statutory reporting. Retroactive reinsurance balances
result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract. For GAAP reporting, retroactive reinsurance balances are included in
reinsurance recoverables and result in lower net reserve amounts. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra-liabilities
rather than in loss reserves.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims

Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately by the Company's Special Liability Group,
a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see "Item 7—Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation" and "—Environmental Claims and Litigation."

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS

Most of the Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling
arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool's statutory capital and surplus rather than just on its own statutory capital and
surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.







RATINGS

Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company's competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings
from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies
typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings which reflect the rating agency's assessment of an insurer's ability to meet its financial
obligations to policyholders, and debt ratings, which reflect the rating agency's assessment of a company's prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the
setting of interest rates and terms for a company's short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at
any time by the rating agency. Each agency's rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency's rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to
rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company's overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the
Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company's website and from the agencies.

A
downgrade in one or more of the Company's claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company's business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its
products may be reduced, particularly because some customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into or renew business with it.

Additionally,
a downgrade in one or more of the Company's debt ratings could adversely impact the Company's ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in
the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs. For example, downgrades in the Company's debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company's revolving
credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 150 basis points, depending on the Company's debt ratings), the Company's commercial
paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities. See "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a discussion of the Company's revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company
considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Company's liquidity requirements. The Company currently believes that a
one- to two-notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company
considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases.

Claims—Paying Ratings

The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool, Travelers
C&S Co. of America, Travelers Personal single state companies, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd., Travelers Insurance Company of Canada, The Dominion of Canada









General
Insurance Company and Travelers Insurance Company Limited as of February 12, 2015. The table presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchTravelers Reinsurance Pool(a)(b)A++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)Travelers C&S Co. of AmericaA++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.A– (4thof 16)——AA (3rdof 21)The Premier Insurance Company of MassachusettsA (3rdof 16)———Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd.A++ (1stof 16)Aa2 (3rdof 21)AA (3rdof 21)—Travelers Insurance Company of CanadaA++ (1stof 16)—AA– (4thof 21)—The Dominion of Canada General Insurance CompanyA (3rdof 16)———Travelers Insurance Company LimitedA (3rdof 16)—AA (3rdof 21)—

(a)

The
Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of: The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The
Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company,
The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northfield Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, American Equity Specialty
Insurance Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company,
Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal
Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company, The Travelers Casualty Company,
St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, Travelers Constitution State Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and
Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company, Discover Specialty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company.

(b)

The
following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company,
Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Casualty Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and
Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.

Debt Ratings

The following table summarizes the current debt, trust preferred securities and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its
subsidiaries as of February 12, 2015. The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency's rating scale.

A.M. BestMoody'sS&PFitchSenior debta+ (5thof 22)A2 (6thof 21)A (6thof 22)A (6thof 22)Subordinated debta– (7thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)A– (7thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Junior subordinated debtbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Trust preferred securitiesbbb+ (8thof 22)A3 (7thof 21)BBB+ (8thof 22)BBB+ (8thof 22)Commercial paperAMB-1 (2ndof 6)P-1 (1stof 4)A-1 (2ndof 10)F-1 (2ndof 8)









Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 13, 2014 (the date on which the Company
filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013), through February 12, 2015:

•

On May 23, 2014, A.M. Best upgraded the financial strength ratings to "A++" from "A+" and the issuer credit ratings to
"aa+" from "aa" of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool as well as Travelers C&S Co. of America, Travelers C&S Co. of Europe, Ltd. and Travelers Insurance Company of Canada.
Concurrently, A.M. Best upgraded the issuer credit ratings and senior debt ratings to "a+" from "a" of TRV and its two wholly-owned downstream holding companies, Travelers Property Casualty
Corp. and Travelers Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. The outlook for the above ratings has been revised to stable from positive. A.M. Best also affirmed the financial strength rating of
"A" and issuer credit rating "a+" of The Premier Insurance Company of Massachusetts, and the financial strength rating of "A–" and issuer credit rating of "a–" of First
Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co. The outlook for these ratings is stable.

•

On May 23, 2014, A.M. Best assigned a financial strength rating of "A" and an issuer credit rating of "a" to The
Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company, which the Company acquired in November 2013. The outlook assigned to all ratings is stable.

•

On June 13, 2014, S&P affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.

•

On August 14, 2014, Moody's affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.

•

On August 26, 2014, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.

•

On November 26, 2014, A.M. Best affirmed the financial strength rating of "A" and the issuer credit rating of "a+" for
Travelers Insurance Company Limited. The outlook for both ratings is stable.

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS

The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid, taxable U.S.
government, tax-exempt U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and the Company's
investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy its insurance and debt obligations. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments
produced by the Company's fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company's insurance reserves. The Company's management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment
portfolio, including its use of Treasury futures at times, has produced a duration that is less than the estimated duration of the Company's net insurance liabilities. The substantial amount by which
the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality
liquid bonds, contributes to the Company's ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities.

The
Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships and joint ventures. These
investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See
note 3 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's investment portfolio.









REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries.TRV's principal domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in
the state of
Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend from an insurance
subsidiary that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurance subsidiary's statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding
December 31, or the insurance subsidiary's net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting
practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The
insurance holding company laws of other states in which TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more
restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends.

Rate and Rule Approvals.TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state's laws and regulations regarding rate and rule
approvals.
The applicable laws and regulations are used by









states
to establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurer's ability to increase rates and the
relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state's requirements.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies.Several states have laws and regulations which
may impact the
timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice, and in some instances
insurance department approval, prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state, and they allow insurers to cancel or non-renew certain policies only for certain specified
reasons.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Pooling and Reinsurance
Arrangements.Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state, including TRV's domestic insurance subsidiaries, to bear a portion of
the loss suffered by some claimants because of the insolvency of other insurers. Many states also have laws that establish second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for
aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

TRV's
domestic insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers' compensation, automobile insurance,
property windpools in states prone to property damage from hurricanes and FAIR plans, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase
that coverage in the voluntary market.

Assessments
may include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but
are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, various workers' compensation related
funds (e.g., the New York Special Disability Fund), North Carolina Beach Plan, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable
or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for
as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers' Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a
component of "General and Administrative Expenses," such as the New York Special Disability Fund. For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other
mandatory pooling and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see "Item 1A—Risk Factors."

Insurance Regulatory Information System.The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed the Insurance Regulatory
Information
System (IRIS) to help state regulators identify companies that may require special attention. Financial examiners review annual statements and key financial ratios based on year-end data. These ratios
assist state insurance departments in executing their statutory mandate to oversee the financial condition of insurance companies. Each ratio has an established "usual range" of results. A ratio
result falling outside the usual range of IRIS ratios, however, is not considered a failing result; rather, unusual values are viewed as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in
some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company will become subject to regulatory
scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges of four or more of the ratios.

Based
on preliminary 2014 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company for its lead domestic insurance subsidiaries, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine
Insurance Company had









results
outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal
range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries.

In
2013, The Travelers Indemnity Company and St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of their
investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its
subsidiaries.

Management
does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2014 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior
years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required.

Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements.The NAIC has an RBC requirement for most property and casualty insurance companies, which
determines minimum
capital requirements and is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. The Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to these NAIC RBC requirements based on laws
that have been adopted by individual states. These requirements subject insurers having policyholders' surplus less than that required by the RBC calculation to varying degrees of regulatory action,
depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Each of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries had policyholders' surplus at December 31, 2014 significantly above the level at which any RBC
regulatory action would occur.

While
there is currently no group regulatory capital requirement in the United States, a comparison of an insurer's policyholders' surplus on a combined basis to the legal entity NAIC
RBC requirements on a combined basis can provide useful information regarding an insurance group's overall capital adequacy in the U.S. The amount of policyholders' surplus held by the Company's U.S.
insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 determined on a combined basis significantly exceeded the level at which the subsidiaries would be subject to RBC regulatory action (company action
level) on a combined basis at that date.

The
formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital above the RBC requirement. Therefore, it is inappropriate
and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies.

Investment Regulation.Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality
and
concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage
loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2014, the Company was in compliance with these laws and
regulations.

International Regulation

TRV's insurance subsidiaries based in Canada and the Canadian branch of one of the Company's U.S. insurance subsidiaries are regulated
by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions under provisions of the Insurance Companies Act. These Canadian subsidiaries and the Canadian branch are also subject to provincial
insurance legislation which regulates pricing, underwriting, coverage and claim conduct, in varying degrees by province and by product line.

TRV's
insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by two regulatory bodies, The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The
PRA's primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate
degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the UK financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. TRV's
insurance operations in the Republic of









Ireland
are conducted through the Irish branch of Travelers Insurance Company Limited which is regulated by the Insurance Supervision Departments of the Central Bank of Ireland (as to conduct) and
also by the PRA.

TRV's
managing agency (Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd.) of its Lloyd's syndicate (Travelers Syndicate 5000) is also regulated by the PRA and the FCA, which have delegated
certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's. Travelers Syndicate 5000 is able to write business in over 75 jurisdictions throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international
licenses. In each such jurisdiction, the policies written by Travelers Syndicate Management Ltd., as part of Lloyd's, are subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that jurisdiction.
Travelers Underwriting Agency Limited, which as an
insurance intermediary is regulated by the FCA, produces insurance business for Travelers Syndicate 5000.

A
TRV subsidiary, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, has a representative office in China. The representative office is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission. A TRV
subsidiary, TCI Global Services, Inc., has a liaison office in India. Insurance business in India is regulated by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority. TRV has a 49.5% investment
in JMalucelli, a joint venture holding company in Brazil. JMalucelli's subsidiaries operate in the insurance and reinsurance business in Brazil and are regulated by the Superintendencia de Seguros
Privados.

Regulators
in these jurisdictions require insurance companies to maintain certain levels of capital depending on, among other things, the type and amount of insurance policies in force.
Each of the Company's foreign insurance subsidiaries had capital significantly above their respective regulatory requirements at December 31, 2014.

Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it
is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries' states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws,
require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of material transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other
things, prior approval of an acquisition of control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control.Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance
approval by state
agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The
laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted to transact
business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease and desist orders with respect
to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any
transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV's insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in
which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions
and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two
of TRV's insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd's are domiciled in the United Kingdom. Insurers in the United Kingdom are subject to change of control restrictions in the
Financial









Services
Act of 2012, including approval of the PRA and FCA. Some of TRV's other insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada. Authorized insurers in
Canada are subject to change of control restrictions in Section 407 of the Insurance Companies Act, including approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. JMalucelli
and its subsidiaries are subject to change of control and other share transfer restrictions and requirements in insurance laws and regulations in Brazil, mainly in Decree 73/1966 and CNSP Resolution
no. 166/2007, which may include the need for prior approval of the insurance regulator, Superintendencia de Seguros Privados.

These
requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV's
shareholders.

Regulatory Developments

For a discussion of domestic and international regulatory developments, see "Item 1A—Risk Factors" including
"Changes in federal regulation could impose significant burdens on us and otherwise adversely impact our results" and "New regulations outside of the United States, including in the European Union,
could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth."

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT

As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the
environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all
aspects of the Company's operations. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the
Company's stakeholders. This approach to Company-wide risk evaluation and management is commonly called Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). ERM activities involve both the identification and assessment
of a broad range of risks and the execution of synchronized strategies to effectively manage such risks. Effective ERM also includes the determination of the Company's risk capital needs, which takes
into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors.

ERM
at the Company is an integral part of its business operations. All corporate leaders and the board of directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk-based analytics, as well as
reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The
Company uses various methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to continually monitor and analyze catastrophic events and the risks associated with
them. These analyses and methods are used in making underwriting and reinsurance decisions as part of managing the Company's exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and
analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. The Company also utilizes proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes to evaluate capital adequacy.
These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company's ERM process and further support the Company's long-term financial strategies and objectives.

In
addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company's operations, key internal risk management functions include, among others, the Management and Operating Committees
(comprised of the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Business Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, the Chief
Compliance Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Accounting Policy









group
and the Enterprise Underwriting group. A senior executive serves as Chief Risk Officer and oversees the ERM process. The mission of this executive is to facilitate risk assessment and to
collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this executive includes working across the Company to enhance effective and
realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company's overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the
Risk Committee of the board of directors, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Company's insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and
performance of the Company's ERM program.

The
Company's ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment. ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations,
reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to fostering, leading and supporting an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on value
creation and preservation. However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met. Further, the design of any risk management or control system
must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the
Company's significant ERM efforts. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in
"Item 1A—Risk Factors," "Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," and "Item 8—Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data."

OTHER INFORMATION

Customer Concentration

In the opinion of the Company's management, no material part of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries is dependent upon a
single customer or group of customers, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the Company, and no one customer or group of affiliated customers accounts for 10% or more
of the Company's consolidated revenues.

Employees

At December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately 30,200 employees. The Company believes that its employee relations are
satisfactory. None of the Company's employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements.

Sources of Liquidity

For a discussion of the Company's sources of funds and maturities of the long-term debt of the Company, see
"Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and note 8 of notes to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

Taxation

For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see note 12 of notes to the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

Financial Information about Reportable Business Segments

For financial information regarding reportable business segments of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and note 2 of notes to the Company's consolidated financial statements.









Intellectual Property

The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and
protect its intellectual property. With respect to trademarks specifically, the Company has registrations in many countries, including the United States, for its material trademarks, including the
"Travelers" name and the Company's iconic umbrella logo. The Company has the right to retain its material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements
of all applicable countries. The Company regards its trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing its products and services and vigorously seek to protect its trademarks against infringement. See
"Item 1A—Risk Factors—Intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject
to claims for infringing on the intellectual property of others."

Recent Transactions

For information regarding recent transactions of the Company, see "Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Company Website, Social Media and Availability of SEC Filings

The Company's Internet website iswww.travelers.com. Information on the Company's
website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a)
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the
Company's website, then click on "SEC Filings" under the "For Investors" heading.

From
time to time, the Company may use its website and/or social media outlets, such as Facebook and Twitter, as distribution channels of material company information. Financial and
other important information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible through the Company's website athttp://investor.travelers.com,
its Facebook page athttp://www.facebook.com/travelersand its Twitter account (@Travelers) athttp://www.twitter.com/Travelers. In addition, you may
automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your
email address by visiting the "Email Notifications" section athttp://investor.travelers.com.

Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms

Accident yearThe annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.Adjusted unassigned surplusUnassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year's unrealized
appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.Admitted insurerA company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.











AgentA licensed individual who sells and services insurance policies, receiving a commission from the insurer for selling the business and a fee
for servicing it. An independent agent represents multiple insurance companies and searches the market for the best product for its client.

AnnuityA contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or more
persons or for a specified period of time.

Assigned risk poolsReinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible reasons for
this inability include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their direct
writings.

Assumed reinsuranceInsurance risks acquired from a ceding company.

Average value analysisA conventional actuarial method used to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that average claim values are stable and predictable over time for a particular cohort
of claims. The method is utilized most often where ultimate claim counts are known or reliably estimable fairly early after the start of an accident year and average values are expected to be fairly predictable from one year to the next.

The method comes up with an estimate of ultimate claims counts by accident year cohort, and multiplies it by an estimate of
average claim value by accident year cohort, with multiple methods used to estimate these average claim values.

Book value per shareTotal common shareholders' equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.

Bornhuetter-Ferguson methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the outstanding losses.











The basic premise of the method is that the historical ratio of additional claim activity to earned premium for a given product line
component/age-to-age period is stable and predictable. It implicitly assumes that the actual activity to date for past periods for that cohort is not a credible predictor of future activity for that cohort, or at least is not credible enough to
override the "a priori" assumption as to future activity. It may be applied to either paid or case incurred claim data. It is used most often where the claim data is sparse and/or volatile and for relatively young cohorts with low volumes and/or data
credibility.

To illustrate, the method may assume that the ratio of additional paid losses from the 12 to 24 month period for an
accident year is 10% of the original "a priori" expected losses for that accident year. The original "a priori" expected losses are typically based on the original loss ratio assumption for that accident year, with subsequent adjustment as facts
develop.

The ultimate losses equal actual activity to date plus the expected values for future periods.

BrokerOne who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission from the
insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.

CapacityThe percentage of statutory capital and surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing
or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.

CaptiveA closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company's owners or their
affiliates.

Case-incurred development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method," but based on the
growth in cumulative case-incurred losses (i.e., the sum of claim-adjustor incurred estimates for claims in the cohort) rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative case incurred losses for a given cohort of claims
will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort.

Case reservesClaim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported
claim.











Casualty insuranceInsurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the legal
liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers' liability, workers' compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance. It excludes certain
types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.

CatastropheA severe loss, resulting from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms,
earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. Catastrophes can also result from a terrorist attack (including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events), explosions,
infrastructure failures or as a consequence of political instability. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount. Their effects are included in net and operating income and claims and claim
adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.

Catastrophe lossLoss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes.

Catastrophe reinsuranceA form of excess-of-loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of
loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses and related reinsurance reinstatement premiums resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a "catastrophe cover." These reinsurance
contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers' compensation policies.

Cede; ceding companyWhen an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a "cession," it "cedes" business and is referred to as the
"ceding company."

Ceded reinsuranceInsurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See "Reinsurance."

ClaimRequest by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured peril.

Claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expensesSee "Loss" and "Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)."

Claims and claim adjustment expense reservesSee "Loss reserves."











CohortA group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example, all claims for a given
product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.

Combined ratioFor Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP), the combined ratio is the sum of the SAP loss and LAE ratio and the SAP
underwriting expense ratio as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The combined ratio as used in this report is the equivalent of, and is calculated in the same manner as, the SAP combined ratio except that
the SAP underwriting expense ratio is based on netwrittenpremium and the underwriting expense ratio as used in this report is based on netearnedpremiums.

The combined ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline, efficiency in acquiring and servicing its
business and overall underwriting profitability. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Combined ratio excluding incremental impact of direct to consumer initiativeThe combined ratio excluding incremental impact of direct to consumer initiative is the combined ratio adjusted to exclude
the direct, variable impact of the Company's direct-to-consumer initiative in the Personal Insurance segment.

Commercial multi-peril policiesRefers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.

Commutation agreementAn agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in exchange for a
complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.

Debt-to-total capital ratioThe ratio of debt to total capitalization.

Debt-to-total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investmentsThe ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and
losses.

DeductibleThe amount of loss that an insured retains.

Deferred acquisition costs (DAC)Incremental direct costs of acquired and renewal insurance contracts, consisting of commissions (other than contingent
commissions) and premium-related taxes that are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).











DeficiencyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are insufficient to
pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as new information becomes
available.

Demand surgeSignificant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials
and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.

Direct written premiumsThe amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of an
insurance contract. The amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded.

Earned premiums or premiums earnedThat portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums
are recognized as revenues under both Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP) and GAAP.

Excess and surplus lines insuranceInsurance for risks not covered by standard insurance due to the unique nature of the risk. Risks could be placed in excess
and surplus lines markets due to any number of characteristics, such as loss experience, unique or unusual exposures, or insufficient experience in business. Excess and surplus lines are less regulated by the states, allowing greater flexibility to
design specific insurance coverage and negotiate pricing based on the risks to be secured.

Excess liabilityAdditional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.

Excess-of-loss reinsuranceReinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar amount or
"retention."

ExposureThe measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product. The change in exposure is the amount of change in premium
on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.

Facultative reinsuranceThe reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately
negotiated.

Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) PlanA residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through the regular
(voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see "residual market (involuntary business)."











Fidelity and surety programsFidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee. Surety is a
three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.

Gross written premiumsThe direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the
contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.

Ground-up analysisA method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line component. It
involves analyzing the exposure and claim activity at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses for the cohort
are then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.

In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the larger insureds,
with the costs for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured analysis).

Guaranteed cost productsAn insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the covered
period.

Guaranty fundA state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should insolvencies
occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer's obligations to policyholders.

Holding company liquidityTotal cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.

Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reservesReserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes amounts
for unreported claims, development on known cases, and re-opened claims.

Inland marineA broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well as bridges,
 tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and
others.

IRIS ratiosFinancial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial condition of
insurance companies.











Large deductible policyAn insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is responsible for paying the
entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.

Lloyd'sAn insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks, deal with
Lloyd's underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.

LossAn occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from
coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.

Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim
settlement costs.

Loss and LAE ratioFor SAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses less certain administrative
services fee income to net earned premiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The loss and LAE ratio as used in this report is calculated in the same manner as the SAP ratio.

The loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Loss reservesLiabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or
reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document, "loss reserves"
is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.

Loss reserve developmentThe increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and
claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.

Losses incurredThe total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred losses
include a provision for IBNR.











National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the five U.S. territories
organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.

Net written premiumsDirect written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.

New business volumeThe amount of written premium related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing
policyholders.

Operating income (loss)Net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued operations and
cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable.

Operating income (loss) per shareOperating income (loss) on a per share basis.

Operating return on equityThe ratio of operating income to average equity excluding net unrealized investment gains and losses and discontinued
operations, net of tax.

Paid development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate losses for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product
line component. If the paid-to-date losses are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate losses, the result is an indication of the unpaid losses.

The basic premise of the method is that cumulative paid losses for a given cohort of claims will grow in a stable,
predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the cohort. These age-to-age growth factors are sometimes called "link ratios."

For example, if cumulative paid losses for a product line XYZ for accident year 2004 were $100 as of December 31, 2004
(12 months after the start of that accident year), then grew to $120 as of December 31, 2005 (24 months after the start), the link ratio for that accident year from 12 to 24 months would be 1.20. If the link ratio for other recent
accident years from 12 to 24 months for that product line were also at or around 1.20, then the method would assume a similar result for the most recent accident year, i.e., that it too would have its cumulative paid losses grow 120% from
the 12 month to 24 month valuation.

This is repeated for each age-to-age period into the future until the age-to-age link ratios for future periods are assumed
to be 1.0 (i.e., the age at which cumulative losses are assumed to have stopped growing).











A given accident year's cumulative losses are then projected to ultimate by multiplying current cumulative losses by successive age-to-age
link ratios up to that future age where growth is expected to end. For example, if growth is expected to end at 60 months, then the ultimate indication for an accident year with cumulative losses at 12 months equals those losses times a 12
to 24 month link ratio, times a 24 to 36 month link ratio, times a 36 to 48 month link ratio, times a 48 to 60 month link ratio.

Advanced applications of the method include adjustments for changing conditions during the historical period and
anticipated changes in the future.

PoolAn organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums, losses
and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.

PremiumsThe amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance
company.

Property insuranceInsurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for that person's
or business's property loss, damage or loss of use.

Quota share reinsuranceReinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for each policy
covered on a pro rata basis.

RatesAmounts charged per unit of insurance.

RedundancyWith regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are
greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy exists) may
change as new information becomes available.

Reinstatement premiumsAdditional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured
losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.

ReinsuranceThe practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to
indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.

Reinsurance agreementA contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.

Renewal premium changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes. Such statistics are
subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.











Renewal rate changeThe estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes. Such statistics are subject to change based on
a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.

Reported claim development methodA conventional actuarial method to estimate ultimate claim counts for a given cohort of claims such as an accident
year/product line component. If the reported-to-date counts are then subtracted from the estimated ultimate counts, the result is an indication of the IBNR counts.

The approach is the same as that described in this glossary under the "paid loss development method", but based on the
growth in cumulative claim counts rather than paid losses. The basic premise of the method is that cumulative claim counts for a given cohort of claims will grow in a stable, predictable pattern from year-to-year, based on the age of the
cohort.

Residual market (involuntary business)Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible
reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of available coverage such
as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers' compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in proportion to the carriers'
voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.

RetentionThe amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance
policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.

Retention rateThe percentage of prior period premiums (excluding renewal premium changes), accounts or policies available for renewal in
the current period that were renewed. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in actuarial estimates.

Retrospective premiumsPremiums related to retrospectively rated policies.

Retrospective ratingA plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss experience,
subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.

Return on equityThe ratio of net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders' equity.











Risk-based capital (RBC)A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory policyholders' surplus requirements of insurers.
Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.

Risk retention groupAn alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self insure their
risks.

Runoff businessAn operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a cessation of
writing new business, where allowed by law.

SalvageThe amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a loss
payment.

S-curve methodA mathematical function which depicts an initial slow change, followed by a rapid change and then ending in a slow change
again. This results in an "S" shaped line when depicted graphically. The actuarial application of these curves fit the reported data to date for a particular cohort of claims to an S-curve to project future activity for that cohort.

Second-injury fundThe employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers' compensation benefit for the most recent
injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self-insureds
based on either premiums or losses.

Self-insured retentionsThat portion of the risk retained by a person for its own account.

Servicing carrierAn insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and customer
service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.

Statutory accounting practices (SAP)The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in the United
States for recording transactions and preparing financial statements. Statutory accounting practices generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.

Statutory capital and surplusThe excess of an insurance company's admitted assets over its liabilities, including loss reserves, as determined in
accordance with statutory accounting practices (SAP). Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Statutory capital and surplus is also referred to as "statutory
surplus" or "policyholders' surplus."

Statutory net incomeAs determined under SAP, total revenues less total expenses and income taxes.











Structured settlementsPeriodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in settlement of a claim under a
liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.

SubrogationA principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim under a
policy, to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.

Third-party liabilityA liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract. Insured liability
claims are referred to as third-party claims.

Total capitalizationThe sum of total shareholders' equity and debt.

Treaty reinsuranceThe reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a "treaty") between a primary
insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks originally written
by the primary insurer or reinsured.

Umbrella coverageA form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies or amounts
not covered by the usual liability policies.

Unassigned surplusThe undistributed and unappropriated amount of statutory capital and surplus.

Underlying combined ratioThe underlying combined ratio is the sum of the underlying loss and LAE ratio and the underlying underwriting expense
ratio. The underlying combined ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying loss and LAE ratioThe underlying loss and LAE ratio is the loss and LAE ratio, adjusted to exclude the impact of catastrophes and prior year
reserve development. The underlying loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company's underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.

Underlying underwriting expense ratioThe underlying underwriting expense ratio is the underwriting expense ratio adjusted to exclude the impact of
catastrophes.

Underlying underwriting marginNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses (excluding catastrophe losses and prior year
reserve development) and insurance-related expenses.

UnderwriterAn employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge
an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.











UnderwritingThe insurer's or reinsurer's process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to whether to accept all or part
of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.

Underwriting expense ratioFor SAP, the underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred (including commissions paid), less
certain administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to netwrittenpremiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The underwriting expense
ratio as used in this report is the ratio of underwriting expenses (including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs), less certain administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to netearnedpremiums.

The underwriting expense ratio is an indicator of the Company's efficiency in acquiring and servicing its
business.

Other companies' method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company's method of computing
this ratio.

Underwriting gain or lossNet earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.

Unearned premiumThe portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.

Voluntary marketThe market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market
mechanisms.

Wholesale brokerAn independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and nonadmitted insurers in market areas, which include
standard, non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker.

Workers' compensationA system (established under state and federal laws) under which employers provide insurance for benefit payments to their
employees for work-related injuries, deaths and diseases, regardless of fault.









