
10-K


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

    (MARK ONE)

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
        |X|          OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

                  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
        |_|           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ..... TO .....

                       REGISTRANT, STATE OF INCORPORATION,
                          ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER
                          ----------------------------

                            HERSHEY FOODS CORPORATION

    Commission                                                I.R.S. Employer
    File No.             (a Delaware Corporation             Identification No.
    --------              100 Crystal A Drive               ------------------
     1-183              Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033              23-0691590
                              (717) 534-6799


           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                       Name of each exchange on
     Title of each class                                  which registered
     -------------------                             --------------------------
Common Stock, one dollar par value                    New York Stock Exchange

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

                      Class B Common Stock, one dollar par value
                                (TITLE OF CLASS)

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  Registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X| No |_|

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |_|

     State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the  Registrant  as of a  specified  date within 60 days prior to the date of
filing.

     Common  Stock,  one dollar par value --  $4,168,640,981  as of February 28,
2000.

     Class B Common Stock, one dollar par value -- $6,084,926 as of February 28,
     2000.  While the Class B Common  Stock is not listed for public  trading on
     any exchange or market system,  shares of that class are  convertible  into
     shares of Common Stock at any time on a  share-for-share  basis. The market
     value  indicated  is  calculated  based on the closing  price of the Common
     Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 2000.

     Indicate  the  number of  shares  outstanding  of each of the  Registrant's
classes of common stock as of the latest practicable date.

     Common Stock,  one dollar par value -- 107,798,756  shares,  as of February
28, 2000.

     Class B Common  Stock,  one dollar par value --  30,443,908  shares,  as of
February 28, 2000.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
31, 1999 is included as Appendix A to the Corporation's  Proxy Statement for the
Corporation's 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") and is
incorporated by reference into Part II and filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.  Portions
of the Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference herein into Part III.





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

     Hershey Foods  Corporation and its  subsidiaries  (the  "Corporation")  are
engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of consumer food products. The
Corporation produces and distributes a broad line of chocolate and non-chocolate
confectionery and grocery products.

     The  Corporation  was organized  under the laws of the State of Delaware on
October  24,  1927,  as a successor  to a business  founded in 1894 by Milton S.
Hershey.

     In January  1999,  the  Corporation  completed  the sale of its U.S.  pasta
business to New World Pasta, LLC. The transaction  included the AMERICAN BEAUTY,
IDEAL BY SAN GIORGIO, LIGHT `N FLUFFY, MRS. WEISS, P&R, RONZONI, SAN GIORGIO and
SKINNER  pasta  brands  along with six  manufacturing  plants.  The  Corporation
retained a 6% minority interest in the business.

     The  Corporation's   principal   product  groups  include:   chocolate  and
non-chocolate confectionery products sold in the form of bar goods, bagged items
and  boxed  items;  and  grocery  products  in the form of  baking  ingredients,
chocolate  drink mixes,  peanut  butter,  dessert  toppings and  beverages.  The
Corporation  believes it is a leader in these product  groups in North  America.
Operating profit margins vary considerably among individual products and brands.
Generally,  such margins on chocolate and non-chocolate  confectionery  products
are greater than those on grocery products.

     In North America, the Corporation  manufactures chocolate and non-chocolate
confectionery  products  in a variety of packaged  forms and markets  them under
more than 50 brands. The different  packaged forms include various  arrangements
of the same bar products, such as boxes, trays and bags, as well as a variety of
different  sizes  and  weights  of the same bar  products,  such as snack  size,
standard,  king size,  large and giant bars.  Among the principal  chocolate and
non-chocolate  confectionery  products in the United States are: HERSHEY'S BITES
candies, HERSHEY'S classic caramels, HERSHEY'S COOKIES 'N' CREME chocolate bars,
HERSHEY'S HUGS chocolates,  HERSHEY'S KISSES  chocolates,  HERSHEY'S KISSES WITH
ALMONDS chocolates, HERSHEY'S milk chocolate bars, HERSHEY'S milk chocolate bars
with almonds, HERSHEY'S MINIATURES chocolate bars, HERSHEY'S NUGGETS chocolates,
AMAZIN'  FRUIT gummy  bears fruit  candy,  CARAMELLO  candy bars,  GOOD & PLENTY
candy, HEATH toffee bar, JOLLY RANCHER candy, KIT KAT wafer bars, LUDEN'S throat
drops,  MILK DUDS chocolate  covered  caramels,  MR. GOODBAR milk chocolate bars
with peanuts, NIBS candy, PAYDAY peanut caramel bar, PETER PAUL ALMOND JOY candy
bars, PETER PAUL MOUNDS candy bars, POT OF GOLD boxed  chocolates,  RAIN-BLO and
SUPER BUBBLE gum,  REESE'S  NUTRAGEOUS  candy bars,  REESE'S peanut butter cups,
REESE'S PIECES candies, REESESTICKS wafer bars, ROLO caramels in milk chocolate,
SIXLETS candies,  SKOR toffee bars,  SYMPHONY milk chocolate bars, SWEET ESCAPES
candy bars,  TASTETATIONS candy,  TWIZZLERS candy,  WHATCHAMACALLIT  candy bars,
WHOPPERS malted milk balls,  YORK peppermint pattie candy, 5TH AVENUE candy bars
and ZERO candy bars.  Principal  products in Canada  include  CHIPITS  chocolate
chips, GLOSETTE  chocolate-covered raisins, peanuts and almonds, OH HENRY! candy
bars,  POT OF GOLD  boxed  chocolates,  REESE  PEANUT  BUTTER  CUPS  candy,  and
TWIZZLERS candy. The Corporation also manufactures,  imports, markets, sells and
distributes chocolate products in Mexico under the HERSHEY'S brand name.

     The Corporation  manufactures and markets a line of grocery products in the
baking, beverage,  peanut butter and toppings categories.  Principal products in
the United States include HERSHEY'S,  REESE'S and HEATH baking pieces, HERSHEY'S
drink boxes,  HERSHEY'S chocolate milk mix, HERSHEY'S cocoa, HERSHEY'S CHOCOLATE
SHOPPE  ice cream  toppings,  HERSHEY'S  HOT  COCOA  COLLECTION  hot cocoa  mix,
HERSHEY'S syrup and REESE'S peanut butter.  HERSHEY'S chocolate milk is produced
and sold under  license by certain  independent  dairies  throughout  the United
States,  using a chocolate milk mix manufactured by the Corporation.  Baking and
various  other  products are produced and sold under the  HERSHEY'S  and REESE'S
brand names by third parties who have been granted  licenses by the  Corporation
to use these trademarks.




     The Corporation's products are sold primarily to grocery wholesalers, chain
grocery  stores,  candy  distributors,  mass  merchandisers,  chain drug stores,
vending companies, wholesale clubs, convenience stores, concessionaires and food
distributors  by full-time  sales  representatives,  food brokers and  part-time
retail sales merchandisers  throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. The
Corporation  believes its products are sold in over 2 million  retail outlets in
North America. In 1999, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Subsidiaries amounted
to approximately 15% of the Corporation's total net sales.

     In Japan, the Philippines,  Korea and China, the Corporation imports and/or
markets  selected  confectionery  and grocery  products.  The  Corporation  also
markets chocolate and non-chocolate  confectionery products in over 90 countries
worldwide.

     The  Corporation's  marketing  strategy  is  based  upon  the  consistently
superior  quality  of its  products,  mass  distribution  and the best  possible
consumer  value in terms of price  and  weight.  In  addition,  the  Corporation
devotes  considerable  resources to the  identification,  development,  testing,
manufacturing and marketing of new products.  The Corporation utilizes a variety
of promotional  programs for customers and advertising and promotional  programs
for consumers.  The Corporation  employs  promotional  programs at various times
during  the  year  to  stimulate  sales  of  certain  products.   Chocolate  and
non-chocolate  confectionery and grocery seasonal and holiday-related sales have
typically been highest during the third and fourth quarters of the year.

     The Corporation  recognizes that the mass distribution of its consumer food
products is an  important  element in  maintaining  sales  growth and  providing
service to its customers.  The Corporation attempts to meet the changing demands
of its customers by planning optimum stock levels and reasonable  delivery times
consistent with  achievement of efficiencies in  distribution.  To achieve these
objectives,  the  Corporation  has  developed a  distribution  network  from its
manufacturing  plants,  distribution centers and field warehouses  strategically
located throughout the United States,  Canada and Mexico. The Corporation uses a
combination  of public and contract  carriers to deliver its  products  from the
distribution  points to its customers.  In conjunction  with sales and marketing
efforts,  the  distribution  system  has  been  instrumental  in  the  effective
promotion of new, as well as established, products on both national and regional
scales.

     Problems  with the  start-up of new business  systems and  processes in the
areas of customer  service,  warehousing and order  fulfillment were encountered
during the  Corporation's  peak  shipping  season in the third  quarter of 1999.
These problems resulted in lost sales,  longer  turnaround times,  significantly
increased  freight and  warehousing  costs,  and higher levels of inventories in
1999.  Additionally,  as a result of these problems,  accounts  receivable as of
December 31, 1999,  included  increased  deductions  from customer  invoices and
higher  past due amounts as  compared  to the prior  year.  Improvements  to the
systems and processes led to a significantly improved order fulfillment process,
with  reduced  order  cycle time and much  improved  fill rates on orders in the
first  quarter of 2000.  While  customer  service has not yet fully  returned to
historical levels, the Corporation  expects that it will continue to be enhanced
with further improvement of the systems and processes and, as the first phase of
a new 1.2 million  square-foot  distribution  center becomes  operational in the
spring of 2000,  with full  utilization  expected  during the fall 2000 shipping
season.

     From time to time,  the  Corporation  has changed the prices and weights of
its products to accommodate  changes in  manufacturing  costs,  the  competitive
environment and profit objectives,  while at the same time maintaining  consumer
value.  The last  standard  candy  bar price  increase  was  implemented  by the
Corporation  in  December  1995,  resulting  in a  wholesale  price  increase of
approximately  11% on its standard and  king-size  candy bars sold in the United
States.

     The  most   significant   raw  material  used  in  the  production  of  the
Corporation's  chocolate  products is cocoa  beans.  This  commodity is imported
principally  from  West  African,  South  American  and Far  Eastern  equatorial
regions.  West Africa accounts for  approximately 70% of the world's crop. Cocoa
beans are not uniform,  and the various grades and varieties reflect the diverse
agricultural  practices and natural  conditions found in the many growing areas.
The  Corporation   buys  a  mix  of  cocoa  beans  to  meet  its   manufacturing
requirements.

     The table  below  sets forth  annual  average  cocoa  prices as well as the
highest and lowest monthly  averages for each of the calendar  years  indicated.
The prices are the monthly average of the quotations at noon of the three active
futures  trading  contracts  closest to maturity on the New York Board of Trade.
Because of the Corporation's  forward purchasing  practices discussed below, and
premium prices paid for certain varieties of cocoa beans,  these average futures
contract prices are not necessarily indicative of the Corporation's average cost
of cocoa beans or cocoa products.





Source:   International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of Cocoa
          Statistics

     The Federal  Agricultural  and Improvement  Reform Act of 1996,  which is a
seven-year farm bill,  impacts the prices of sugar,  peanuts and milk because it
sets price support levels for these commodities.

     The price of sugar, the Corporation's  second most important  commodity for
its domestic chocolate and confectionery  products, is subject to price supports
under the above  referenced  farm  legislation.  Due to import quotas and duties
imposed to support the price of sugar  established  by that  legislation,  sugar
prices  paid by United  States  users are  currently  substantially  higher than
prices on the world sugar market.  The average  wholesale  list price of refined
sugar, F.O.B.  Northeast,  has remained relatively stable in a range of $.27
to $.35 per pound for the past ten years.

     Peanut prices  remained near normal levels  throughout  1999,  while almond
prices declined to relatively low levels due to a record crop in California.

     Milk  prices  were  extremely  volatile  in  1999;  however,   strong  milk
production  resulted in the average  milk price  dropping to a more normal level
from the historic high prices of 1998.

     The  Corporation  attempts  to  minimize  the effect of price  fluctuations
related to the purchase of its major raw materials primarily through the forward
purchasing  of such  commodities  to  cover  future  manufacturing  requirements
generally for periods ranging from 3 to 24 months.  With regard to cocoa, sugar,
corn  sweeteners,  natural gas and certain dairy products,  price risks are also
managed by entering into futures contracts.  At the present time, active futures
contracts are not available for use in pricing the Corporation's other major raw
materials.  Futures contracts are used in combination with forward purchasing of
cocoa,   sugar,   corn  sweeteners,   natural  gas  and  certain  dairy  product
requirements  principally to take advantage of market fluctuations which provide
more favorable pricing opportunities and to increase diversity or flexibility in
sourcing these raw materials.  The Corporation's commodity procurement practices
are  intended  to  reduce  the  risk of  future  price  increases,  but also may
potentially  limit the  Corporation's  ability to benefit  from  possible  price
decreases.

     The primary effect on liquidity from using futures  contracts is associated
with margin  requirements for futures  contracts  related to cocoa,  sugar, corn
sweeteners,  natural gas and certain dairy  products.  Cash outflows and inflows
result from original  margins  which are "good faith  deposits"  established  by
futures exchanges to ensure that market participants will meet their contractual
financial obligations.  Additionally, variation margin payments and receipts are
required  when the value of open  positions  is adjusted to reflect  daily price
movements.  The  magnitude of such cash  inflows and outflows is dependent  upon
price  coverage  levels and the  volatility of the markets.  Historically,  cash
flows related to margin requirements have not been material to the Corporation's
total working capital requirements.

     The  Corporation  manages the purchase of forward and futures  contracts by
developing  and  monitoring   procurement  strategies  for  each  of  its  major
commodities.  These  procurement  strategies,   including  the  use  of  futures
contracts to hedge the pricing of cocoa, sugar, corn sweeteners, natural gas and
certain  dairy  products,  are  directly  linked  to the  overall  planning  and
management  of the  Corporation's  business,  since  the  cost of raw  materials
accounts for a significant  portion of the cost of finished  goods.  Procurement
strategies with regard to cocoa, sugar and other major raw material requirements
are  developed  by the  analysis  of  fundamentals,  including  weather and crop
analysis,  and  by  discussions  with  market  analysts,  brokers  and  dealers.
Procurement  strategies are  determined,  implemented and monitored on a regular
basis by senior management. Procurement activities for all major commodities are
also reported to the Board of Directors on a regular basis.

     The   Corporation  has  license   agreements  with  several   companies  to
manufacture  and/or sell  products  worldwide.  Among the more  significant  are
agreements with affiliated  companies of Cadbury Schweppes p.l.c. to manufacture
and/or market and distribute  YORK,  PETER PAUL ALMOND JOY and PETER PAUL MOUNDS
confectionery products worldwide as well as CADBURY and CARAMELLO  confectionery
products in the United States.  The Corporation's  rights under these agreements
are



extendible on a long-term  basis at the  Corporation's  option.  The license for
CADBURY and CARAMELLO  products is subject to a minimum sales  requirement which
the  Corporation  exceeded in 1999. The  Corporation  also has an agreement with
Societe des Produits  Nestle SA, which  licenses the  Corporation to manufacture
and distribute KIT KAT and ROLO confectionery products in the United States. The
Corporation's rights under this agreement are extendible on a long-term basis at
the Corporation's option, subject to certain conditions,  including minimum unit
volume sales.  In 1999,  the minimum  volume  requirements  were  exceeded.  The
Corporation  has an agreement  with an  affiliate  of  Huhtamaki Oy  (Huhtamaki)
pursuant to which it licenses the use of certain  trademarks,  including  GOOD &
PLENTY,  HEATH,  JOLLY  RANCHER,  MILK DUDS,  PAYDAY and WHOPPERS  confectionery
products worldwide. The Corporation's rights under this agreement are extendible
on a long-term basis at the Corporation's option.

YEAR 2000 ISSUES

     The Corporation completed its year 2000 testing and remediation programs in
the  third  quarter  of 1999.  No  significant  year  2000  problems  have  been
encountered  with the  Corporation's  information  technology  (IT)  and  non-IT
systems.

     The Corporation also assessed year 2000 remediation  issues relating to its
major business  partners.  All of the  Corporation's  major  customers have been
contacted regarding year 2000 issues related to electronic data interchange. The
Corporation also contacted all of its major suppliers of ingredients, packaging,
facilities, logistics and financial services with regard to year 2000 issues. No
significant  year 2000 problems  have been  encountered  with the  Corporation's
major business partners.

COMPETITION

     Many of the  Corporation's  brands enjoy wide consumer  acceptance  and are
among the leading brands sold in the marketplace. However, these brands are sold
in  highly  competitive  markets  and  compete  with many  other  multinational,
national,  regional and local firms,  some of which have  resources in excess of
those available to the Corporation.

TRADEMARKS

     The Corporation  owns various  registered and  unregistered  trademarks and
service marks, and has rights under licenses to use various trademarks which are
of material importance to the Corporation's business.

BACKLOG OF ORDERS

     The Corporation  manufactures primarily for stock and fills customer orders
from finished goods inventories. Customer service and order fulfillment problems
associated  with  the  start-up  of new  business  systems  and  processes  were
encountered  during  the  important  Back-to-School/Halloween  shipping  period,
causing  distribution  difficulties  in the form of  incomplete  and/or  delayed
shipments  and  selective  regional/customer  out of  stock  conditions  for the
Corporation's  products  in  certain  markets.  While the  backlog of orders was
significant  during the third quarter of 1999,  such backlog was not material in
respect to total sales as of December 31, 1999.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     The  Corporation  engages  in  a  variety  of  research  activities.  These
principally involve  development of new products,  improvement in the quality of
existing products,  improvement and modernization of production  processes,  and
the development and  implementation  of new  technologies to enhance the quality
and value of both current and proposed product lines.

REGULATION

     The Corporation's domestic plants are subject to inspection by the Food and
Drug  Administration and various other governmental  agencies,  and its products
must comply with  regulations  under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and
with  various  comparable  state  statutes   regulating  the  manufacturing  and
marketing of food products.



ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

     In the past the Corporation has made  investments  based on compliance with
environmental  laws and regulations.  Such  expenditures  have not been material
with respect to the Corporation's capital expenditures,  earnings or competitive
position.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 1999, the Corporation had approximately 13,900 full-time
and 1,400  part-time  employees,  of whom  approximately  6,400 were  covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  In January 1999, a reduction of approximately
900 full-time  and 30 part-time  employees  resulted from the  completion of the
sale of the pasta business.  The Corporation considers its employee relations to
be good.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA

     Information  concerning the Corporation's  geographic segments is contained
in Footnote 15 of the  Corporation's  Annual Report to Stockholders  included as
Appendix A to the Proxy Statement,  which information is incorporated  herein by
reference and filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.

SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT

     The nature of the Corporation's  operations and the environment in which it
operates  subject  it  to  changing   economic,   competitive,   regulatory  and
technological conditions, risks and uncertainties.  In connection with the "safe
harbor" provisions of the Private Securities  Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the
Corporation notes the following factors which, among others,  could cause future
results to differ materially from the forward-looking  statements,  expectations
and  assumptions  expressed  or  implied  herein.  Many  of the  forward-looking
statements  contained  in  this  document  may  be  identified  by  the  use  of
forward-looking  words  such as  "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate,"  "should,"
"planned,"  "estimated," and "potential" among others. Factors which could cause
results to differ include,  but are not limited to: changes in the confectionery
and grocery business  environment,  including actions of competitors and changes
in consumer preferences; changes in governmental laws and regulations, including
income taxes; market demand for new and existing products; raw material pricing;
the  Corporation's  ability to fully remedy the problems and avoid the increased
costs   encountered  since   implementing   changes  to  the  customer  service,
warehousing, and order fulfillment processes and systems in the third quarter of
1999; the ability to restore customer service to historical  levels; the effects
service levels and other factors have on future customer demand; and the ability
to complete  construction and commence operations of new warehousing  facilities
on schedule.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

     The  following  is a list  of  the  Corporation's  principal  manufacturing
properties. The Corporation owns each of these properties.

     UNITED STATES
           Hershey,   Pennsylvania  -  confectionery  and  grocery  products (3
                                        principal plants)
           Lancaster,  Pennsylvania - confectionery  products
           Oakdale,  California - confectionery  and grocery products
           Robinson, Illinois - confectionery and grocery products
           Stuarts Draft, Virginia - confectionery and grocery products

     CANADA
           Smiths Falls, Ontario - confectionery and grocery products

     In addition to the  locations  indicated  above,  the  Corporation  owns or
leases  several  other   properties   used  for   manufacturing   chocolate  and
non-chocolate confectionery and grocery products and for sales, distribution and
administrative functions.

     The  Corporation's  plants are efficient and well maintained.  These plants
generally have adequate capacity and can accommodate seasonal demands,  changing
product mixes and certain  additional  growth. The largest plants are located in
Hershey,  Pennsylvania.  Many additions and improvements have been made to these
facilities  over the  years and the  plants'  manufacturing  equipment  includes
equipment of the latest type and technology.



ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In January 1999, the Corporation  received a Notice of Proposed  Deficiency
from the Internal  Revenue Service (IRS) related to the years 1989 through 1996.
The most significant issue pertains to the Corporate Owned Life Insurance (COLI)
program which was  implemented  by the  Corporation in 1989. The IRS proposed an
assessment for the disallowance of interest expense  deductions  associated with
the underlying life insurance policies. The total impact of the disallowance was
approximately  $60.4  million,  including  interest as of December 31, 1999. The
Corporation  may be subject to additional  assessments for federal and state tax
and interest  payments for years  subsequent to 1996. The  Corporation  believes
that it has fully  complied  with the tax law as it relates to its COLI  program
The  Corporation  filed a protest of the  proposed  deficiency  with the Appeals
section of the IRS in April 1999 and continues to vigorously defend its position
on this matter. The Corporation has no other material pending legal proceedings,
other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.





                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
           MATTERS

     Information  concerning  the principal  United States  trading  market for,
market  prices of and  dividends on the  Corporation's  Common Stock and Class B
Common Stock, and the approximate  number of  stockholders,  may be found in the
section  "Market Prices and Dividends" on page A-9 of the  Corporation's  Annual
Report  to  Stockholders   included  as  Appendix  A  to  the  Proxy  Statement,
incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The  following  information,  for the five years ended  December  31, 1999,
found in the section "Eleven-Year  Consolidated Financial Summary" on pages A-33
through A-35 of the  Corporation's  Annual  Report to  Stockholders  included as
Appendix A to the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference and filed
as Exhibit 13  hereto:  Net Sales;  Income  from  Continuing  Operations  Before
Accounting  Changes;   Income  Per  Share  from  Continuing   Operations  Before
Accounting  Changes  - Basic  (excluding  Notes i, j and k);  Dividends  Paid on
Common Stock (and related Per Share  amounts);  Dividends Paid on Class B Common
Stock (and  related Per Share  amounts);  Long-term  Portion of Debt;  and Total
Assets.

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The section  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis,"  found on pages A-1
through A-10 of the  Corporation's  Annual  Report to  Stockholders  included as
Appendix A to the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference and filed
as Exhibit 13 hereto.

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The following audited consolidated  financial statements of the Corporation
and its  subsidiaries  are  found at the  indicated  pages in the  Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders included as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement, and
such  financial  statements,  along  with the Report of the  Independent  Public
Accountants  thereon,  are incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit
13 hereto.

    1.   Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31,
         1999, 1998 and 1997.  (Page A-11)

    2.   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998.
         (Page A-12)

    3.   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
         1999, 1998 and 1997.  (Page A-13)

    4.   Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
          December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997. (Page A-14)

    5.   Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements  (Pages  A-15  through
         A-30),  including  "Quarterly  Data (Unaudited)."  (Page A-30)

    6.   Report of Independent Public Accountants.  (Page A-32)

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.







                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The names, ages, positions held with the Corporation, periods of service as
a director,  principal occupations,  business experience and other directorships
of  nominees  for  director  of the  Corporation  are set  forth in the  section
"Election of Directors" in the Proxy Statement. This information is incorporated
herein by reference.

________________________
     There are no family  relationships among any of the above-named officers of
the Corporation.

     (1) Mr. Viviano retired as Vice Chairman of the Board on March 1, 2000.

     (2) Mr.  Canavan was elected  Vice  President,  Human  Resources  effective
January  1,  1999.  Prior to  joining  the  Corporation  he was Vice  President,
Staffing,  IBM United States  Corporation in New York (1998) and Vice President,
Human Resources, IBM North America (1993).

     Corporate Officers and Division  Presidents are generally elected each year
at the organization meeting of the Board of Directors in April.

     Reporting of any  inadvertent  late  filings of a  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  Form 4 under Section 16 of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended,  is set forth in the  section  of the Proxy  Statement  "Section  16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."





ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Information  concerning  compensation  of the five most  highly-compensated
executive  officers,  including  the  Chairman of the Board and Chief  Executive
Officer, of the Corporation individually,  and compensation of directors, is set
forth  in  the  sections   "1999   Executive   Compensation"   and   "Directors'
Compensation" in the Proxy Statement. This information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Information  concerning ownership of the Corporation's voting securities by
certain beneficial owners,  individual  nominees for director and by management,
including the five most  highly-compensated  executive officers, is set forth in
the section  "Voting  Securities" in the Proxy  Statement.  This  information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information  concerning "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" is
set forth in the section "Certain  Transactions and  Relationships" in the Proxy
Statement. This information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

ITEM 14(A)(1):  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The audited  consolidated  financial  statements of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries  and the  Report of  Independent  Public  Accountants  thereon,  as
required  to be filed with this  report,  are set forth in Item 8 of this report
and are incorporated therein by reference to specific pages of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders  included as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement and
filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.

ITEM 14(A)(2):  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

     The following  consolidated financial statement schedule of the Corporation
and its  subsidiaries  for the years ended  December 31, 1999,  1998 and 1997 is
filed herewith on the indicated page in response to Item 14(d):

     Schedule II  --  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Page 15)

     Other schedules have been omitted as not applicable or required, or because
information required is shown in the consolidated  financial statements or notes
thereto.

     Financial statements of the parent corporation only are omitted because the
Corporation is primarily an operating  corporation  and there are no significant
restricted net assets of consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries.

ITEM 14(A)(3):  EXHIBITS

     The following  items are attached or  incorporated by reference in response
to Item 14(c):

     (3)   Articles of Incorporation and By-laws

           The Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation,  as amended,
           is  incorporated  by reference  from  Exhibit 3 to the  Corporation's
           Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the  quarter  ended April 3, 1988.
           The  By-laws,  as amended and  restated  as of December 1, 1998,  are
           incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3 to the Corporation's  Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.




     (4)   Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
           indentures

           The Corporation has issued certain long-term debt instruments, no one
           class of which creates indebtedness exceeding 10% of the total assets
           of the  Corporation  and its  subsidiaries  on a consolidated  basis.
           These classes consist of the following:

           a.     6.7% Notes due 2005

           b.     6.95% Notes due 2007

           c.     6.95% Notes due 2012

           d.     8.8% Debentures due 2021

           e.     7.2% Debentures due 2027

           f.     Other Obligations

           The Corporation  will furnish copies of the above debt instruments to
           the Commission upon request.

     (10)  Material contracts

           a.     Kit Kat and Rolo License Agreement  (the "License  Agreement")
                  between  Hershey Foods  Corporation  and  Rowntree  Mackintosh
                  Confectionery  Limited is  incorporated  by  reference  from
                  Exhibit  10(a) to the Corporation's  Annual  Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal  year ended  December  31,  1980.  The
                  License Agreement was amended in 1988 and the Amendment
                  Agreement is  incorporated  by reference from Exhibit 19
                  to the  Corporation's  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the
                  quarter  ended July 3, 1988.  The  License   Agreement was
                  assigned by Rowntree Mackintosh  Confectionery Limited to
                  Societe des Produits Nestle SA as of January 1, 1990.  The
                  Assignment  Agreement is  incorporated  by  reference  from
                  Exhibit 19  to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.

           b.     Peter Paul/York  Domestic  Trademark & Technology License
                  Agreement between Hershey Foods Corporation and
                  Cadbury Schweppes Inc. (now CBI Holdings,  Inc.) dated August
                  25, 1988, is incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2(a) to
                  the  Corporation's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated
                  September 8, 1988.  This agreement was assigned by the
                  Corporation  to its wholly owned  subsidiary,  Hershey
                  Chocolate and  Confectionery Corporation.

           c.     Cadbury  Trademark & Technology  License  Agreement among
                  Hershey Foods Corporation and Cadbury Schweppes Inc. (now
                  CBI Holdings,  Inc.) and Cadbury  Limited dated August 25,
                  1988, is  incorporated  by reference from Exhibit 2(a) to the
                  Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 8,
                  1988.

           d.     The  Amended  and  Restated  364-Day  Credit  Agreement  among
                  Hershey Foods Corporation,  the banks,  financial institutions
                  and other institutional  lenders listed on the signature pages
                  thereof,  and Citibank,  N.A. as  administrative  agent,  Banc
                  America  Securities LLC as  co-syndication  agent, and Salomon
                  Smith  Barney Inc,  as  co-syndication  agent and  arranger is
                  attached hereto and filed as Exhibit 10.1.

           e.     Five-Year Credit Agreement among Hershey Foods Corporation,
                  the banks,  financial institutions and other institutional
                  lenders listed on the signature pages thereof, and Citibank,
                  N.A. as administrative agent and Citicorp Securities,  Inc.
                  (now Salomon Smith Barney Inc.) and BA Securities,  Inc. (now
                  Banc America  Securities  LLC) as  co-syndication  agents,  is
                  incorporated  by  reference  from  Exhibit  10.2 to the
                  Corporation's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  January 29,
                  1996.  The Five-Year  Credit  Agreement was  renewed in late
                  1997.

           f.     Trademark and Technology  License  Agreement between Huhtamaki
                  and Hershey  Foods  Corporation  dated  December 30, 1996,  is
                  incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10 to the Corporation's
                  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated  February  26,  1997.  This
                  agreement was assigned by the  Corporation to its wholly owned
                  subsidiary,  Hershey Chocolate and Confectionery  Corporation.
                  The agreement was amended and restated in




                  1999 and the Amended and Restated  Trademark and Technology
                  License Agreement is attached hereto and filed as
                  Exhibit 10.2.


         Executive Compensation Plans

           g.     The restated  Key Employee  Incentive  Plan,  incorporated  by
                  reference from the  Corporation's  Proxy Statement dated March
                  17,  1997 and filed in  connection  with the  April  29,  1997
                  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders,  was amended in 1999,  and a
                  copy of the plan, as amended and restated,  is attached hereto
                  and filed as Exhibit 10.3.

           h.     Hershey Foods Corporation's  Restated  Supplemental  Executive
                  Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference from Exhibit 19(ii)
                  to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended  December 31, 1994, was amended in 1999, and a copy
                  of the plan,  as  amended and restated,  is  attached  hereto
                  and filed as Exhibit 10.4.

           i.     Hershey  Foods  Corporation's  Deferred  Compensation  Plan is
                  incorporated   by   reference   from   Exhibit   10.3  to  the
                  Corporation's  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended December 31, 1996.

           j.     Hershey Foods  Corporation's  Directors'  Compensation Plan is
                  incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10 to the Corporation's
                  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                  28, 1997.

           k.     Hershey  Foods  Corporation's  Executive  Benefits  Protection
                  Plan (Group 3A), covering certain of its executive officers,
                  is attached hereto and filed as Exhibit 10.5.

     (12)  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges statement

           A  computation  of ratio of earnings  to fixed  charges for the years
           ended  December  31,  1999,  1998,  1997,  1996  and 1995 is filed as
           Exhibit 12 hereto.

     (13)  Annual report to security holders

           The  Corporation's  Annual  Report to  Stockholders  is  included  as
           Appendix A to the Proxy Statement and is filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.

     (14b) A Current Report on Form 8-K was filed on January 4, 2000  announcing
           that the  Corporation's  sales in  December  1999 will be lower  than
           expected,  and that its earnings per share for the fiscal year ending
           December 31, 1999, might be below market expectations.

     (21)  Subsidiaries of the Registrant

           A list setting  forth  subsidiaries  of the  Corporation  is filed as
           Exhibit 21 hereto.

     (23)  Consent of Independent Public Accountants

           The  consent to the  incorporation  of  reports of the  Corporation's
           Independent  Public  Accountants  dated January 28, 2000, is filed as
           Exhibit 23 hereto.

     (27)  Financial  Data  Schedule  for the period  ended  December  31,  1999
           (required for electronic filing only).





                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT  TO THE  REQUIREMENTS  OF  SECTION  13 OR 15(D) OF THE  SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE  CORPORATION  HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                           HERSHEY FOODS CORPORATION
                                                (Registrant)


Date: March 13, 2000                   By /s/  W. F. CHRIST
- --------------------                      ---------------------
                                        (W. F. Christ, Senior Vice President,
                                         Chief  Financial Officer and Treasurer)








                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To Hershey Foods Corporation:

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing  standards,  the
consolidated  financial statements included in Hershey Foods Corporation's Proxy
Statement for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders  incorporated by reference
in this Form 10-K,  and have issued our report  thereon  dated January 28, 2000.
Our audit was made for the  purpose of  forming  an  opinion on those  financial
statements  taken as a whole.  The schedule listed on page 9 in Item 14(a)(2) is
the responsibility of the Corporation's management and is presented for purposes
of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part
of the basic  financial  statements.  This  schedule  has been  subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial  statements and,
in our opinion,  fairly  states in all  material  respects  the  financial  data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements
taken as a whole.

                                                ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

New York, New York
January 28, 2000







(a) Includes recoveries of amounts previously written off.
(b) Includes reserves related to the Corporation's pasta business which was sold
    in January 1999.




