
10-K
12/31/93 FORM 10-K


 
                                    



                            UNITED STATES
                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                       WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                              FORM 10-K
  (Mark One)
      (X)   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
        of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Fee Required)
             For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993
                                 OR
      ( )          Transition Report Pursuant to 
                     Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required)
            For the transition period from ..... to .....

                 Registrant, State of Incorporation,
                    Address and Telephone Number
                      Hershey Foods Corporation
Commission                                          I.R.S. Employer 
File No.            (a Delaware Corporation)       Identification No. 
  1-183               100 Crystal A Drive              23-0691590      
                   Hershey, Pennsylvania 17033
                         (717) 534-6799

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             
Title of each class:                           Name of each      
Common Stock, one dollar par value             exchange on       
                                             which registered:   
                                          New York Stock Exchange  
    
         
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
             Class B Common Stock, one dollar par value
                          (Title of class)

  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes (X)  No ( )

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. (X)

  State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of a specified date within
60 days prior to the date of filing.

  Common Stock, one dollar par value - $2,591,310,046, as of
  March 1, 1994.

  Class B Common Stock, one dollar par value - $4,622,517, as of
  March 1, 1994.  While the Class B Common Stock is not listed
  for public trading on any exchange or market system, shares of
  that class are convertible into shares of Common Stock at any
  time on a share-for-share basis.  The market value indicated
  is calculated based on the closing price of the Common Stock
  on the New York Stock Exchange on March 1, 1994.
  
  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
  Registrant's classes of common stock as of the latest
  practicable date.
  Common Stock, one dollar par value - 72,113,618 shares, as of
  March 1, 1994.
  
  Class B Common Stock, one dollar par value - 15,242,979
  shares, as of March 1, 1994.

                 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

  Portions of the Corporation's 1993 Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1993 are
incorporated by reference into Part II and are reproduced herein
as Exhibit 13.  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the
Corporation's 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are
incorporated by reference into Part III.



Page 1
                               PART I

Item 1.BUSINESS

  Hershey Foods Corporation and its subsidiaries (the
"Corporation") are engaged in the manufacture, distribution and
sale of consumer food products.  The Corporation, primarily
through its Hershey Chocolate U.S.A., Hershey Grocery, Hershey
International and Hershey Pasta Group divisions and its
subsidiary Hershey Canada Inc., produces and distributes a broad
line of chocolate, confectionery, grocery and pasta products.

  The Corporation was organized under the laws of the State of
Delaware on October 24, 1927, as a successor to a business
founded in 1894 by Milton S. Hershey.

  In March 1993, the Corporation purchased certain assets of
three Cleveland, Ohio area pasta companies:  Ideal Macaroni
Company, Il Pranzo D'oro Corporazoine, Inc. and Weiss Noodle
Company.  In September 1993, the Corporation purchased all of
the shares of Sperlari, S.r.l. from Heinz Italia S.p.A. 
Sperlari manufactures, markets, sells, and distributes a wide
range of confectionery products in Italy, including sugar
candies and nougat.  In October 1993, the Corporation purchased
all of the outstanding shares of Overspecht B.V.  Through its
subsidiaries, this company manufactures and sells chocolate and
non-chocolate confectionery products, cookies, biscuits, and ice
cream primarily in the Netherlands and Belgium.

  The Corporation's principal product groups include:  chocolate
and confectionery products sold in the form of bar goods, bagged
items, boxed items, and throat drops; grocery products in the
form of baking ingredients, chocolate drink mixes, peanut
butter, dessert toppings, and beverages; pasta products sold in
a variety of different shapes, sizes and packages; and
refrigerated puddings.  The Corporation believes it is a major
factor in these product groups in North America.  Operating
profit margins vary considerably among individual products and
brands.  Generally, such margins on chocolate and confectionery
products are greater than those on pasta and other food
products.

  The Corporation manufactures chocolate and confectionery
products in a variety of packaged forms and markets them under
more than 50 brands.  The different packaged forms include
various arrangements of the same bar products, such as boxes,
trays and bags, as well as a variety of different sizes and
weights of the same bar product, such as snack size, standard,
king size, large and giant bars.  Among the principal chocolate
and confectionery products in the United States are: HERSHEY'S
COOKIES 'N' MINT chocolate bars, HERSHEY'S HUGS chocolates,
HERSHEY'S HUGS WITH ALMONDS chocolates, HERSHEY'S KISSES
chocolates, HERSHEY'S KISSES WITH ALMONDS chocolates, HERSHEY'S
milk chocolate bars, HERSHEY'S milk chocolate bars with almonds,
HERSHEY'S MINIATURES chocolate bars, AMAZIN' FRUIT gummy bears
fruit candy, BAR NONE candy bars, CADBURY'S CREME EGGS candy,
CARAMELLO candy bars, KIT KAT wafer bars, LUDEN'S throat drops,
MR. GOODBAR milk chocolate bars with peanuts, PETER PAUL ALMOND
JOY candy bars, PETER PAUL MOUNDS candy bars, REESE'S crunchy
peanut butter cups, REESE'S peanut butter cups, REESE'S PIECES
candies, ROLO caramels in milk chocolate, SKOR toffee bars,
SYMPHONY milk chocolate bars, WHATCHAMACALLIT candy bars, Y&S
TWIZZLERS licorice-type candy, YORK peppermint pattie candy, and
5TH AVENUE candy bars. 
 
  The Corporation also markets a line of grocery products in the
baking, beverage, peanut butter, puddings and toppings
categories.  Principal products include HERSHEY'S baking
chocolate, HERSHEY'S baking chips, HERSHEY'S chocolate drink,
HERSHEY'S chocolate milk mix, HERSHEY'S cocoa, HERSHEY'S
CHOCOLATE SHOPPE toppings, HERSHEY'S syrup, REESE'S peanut
butter and REESE'S peanut butter chips.  Refrigerated HERSHEY'S
chocolate bar flavor puddings are available throughout the
United States.  HERSHEY'S chocolate milk is produced and sold
under license by approximately 25 independent dairies throughout
the United States, using a chocolate milk mix manufactured by
the Corporation. 

   Principal products in Canada include CHIPITS chocolate chips,
GLOSETTE chocolate-covered raisins, peanuts and almonds, LIFE
SAVERS candy, OH HENRY! candy bars, PLANTERS peanuts, POT OF
GOLD boxed chocolates, REESE PEANUT BUTTER CUPS candy, and Y&S
TWIZZLERS licorice-type candy.


Page 2

  The Corporation's chocolate, confectionery and grocery
products are sold primarily to grocery wholesalers, chain
grocery stores, candy distributors, mass merchandisers, chain
drug stores, vending companies, wholesale clubs, convenience
stores, concessionaires and food distributors by full-time sales
representatives, food brokers and part-time retail sales
merchandisers throughout the United States and Canada.  The
Corporation also manufactures, imports, markets, sells and
distributes chocolate products in Mexico under the HERSHEY'S
brand name.   These products are sold through chain grocery
stores, food distributors, and wholesale clubs.  The Corporation
believes its chocolate and confectionery products are sold in
over 2 million retail outlets in North America.  Selected
products in Canada are sold through a network of independent
brokers.  

  The Corporation manufactures, markets, sells and distributes
high-quality assorted pralines and seasonal chocolate products
in Germany under the GUBOR brand name which are sold directly to
retailers.  Additionally, the Corporation imports, markets,
sells and distributes selected HERSHEY'S chocolate and
confectionery products in the Japanese market.     In Italy, the
Corporation manufactures, markets, sells, and distributes
various confectionery and nougat products under several brand
names including SPERLARI, DONDI, SCARAMELLINI, FRESH CLUB,
SPRINT, GALATINE, and GNAMMY.  In the Netherlands and Belgium,
the Corporation manufactures and sells chocolate and
confectionery products, cookies, biscuits, and ice cream.  These
products are sold primarily under private labels, but products
are also marketed and sold under the WIVER and JAMIN brand
names.

  The Corporation manufactures and sells quality pasta products
throughout the United States.  The Corporation markets its
products on a regional basis under several brand names,
including AMERICAN BEAUTY, LIGHT 'N FLUFFY, P&R, RONZONI, SAN
GIORGIO, and SKINNER, as well as certain private labels.  These
products are sold through chain grocery stores, grocery
wholesalers, wholesale clubs, convenience stores and food
distributors. 

  The Corporation's marketing strategy for its products is based
upon the consistently superior quality of its products, mass
distribution and the best possible consumer value in terms of
price and weight.  In addition, the Corporation devotes
considerable resources to the identification, development,
testing, manufacturing and marketing of new products.  The
Corporation utilizes a variety of promotional programs for
customers and advertising and promotional programs for
consumers.  The Corporation employs promotional programs at
various times during certain seasons of the year to stimulate
sales of certain products.  Chocolate, confectionery and grocery
seasonal and holiday related sales have typically been highest
during the third and fourth quarters of the year.

  The Corporation recognizes that the mass distribution of its
consumer food products is an important element in maintaining
sales growth and providing service to its customers.  The
Corporation attempts to meet the changing demands of its
customers by planning optimum stock levels and reasonable
delivery times consistent with achievement of economies of
distribution.  To achieve these objectives, the Corporation has
developed a distribution network from its manufacturing plants,
distribution centers and field warehouses strategically located
throughout the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada and Mexico. 
The Corporation uses a combination of public and contract
carriers to deliver its products from the distribution points to
its customers.  In conjunction with sales and marketing efforts,
the distribution system has been instrumental in the effective
promotion of new, as well as established, products on both
national and regional scales.

  From time to time the Corporation has changed the prices and
weights of its consumer food products to accommodate changes in
the cost of manufacturing, including the cost of raw materials;
the competitive environment; and profit objectives, while at the
same time maintaining consumer value.  The Corporation changes
the weight on portions of its standard bar line periodically,
and selected weight changes were made in 1993.  As a result of
higher semolina costs, the Corporation implemented a price
increase averaging 3.5% in November 1993 on its pasta products
and announced a curtailment of certain promotional allowances
effective February 1994. 

  The most significant raw material used in the production of
the Corporation's chocolate and confectionery products is cocoa
beans.  This commodity is imported principally from West
African, South American and Far Eastern equatorial regions. 
West Africa accounts for approximately 60% of the world's crop. 
Cocoa beans are not uniform, and the various grades and
varieties reflect the diverse agricultural practices and natural
conditions found in the many growing areas.  The Corporation
buys a mix of cocoa beans to meet its manufacturing objectives. 
It attempts to minimize the effect of cocoa bean price
fluctuations by the forward purchasing, from time to time, of
substantial quantities of cocoa beans, chocolate liquor and
cocoa butter, and by the purchase and sale of cocoa futures and
options contracts.



Page 3

  The table below sets forth annual cocoa prices for each of the
calendar years indicated.  The prices are the monthly average of
the quotations at noon of the three active futures trading
contracts closest to maturity on the New York Coffee, Sugar and
Cocoa Exchange.  Because of the Corporation's forward purchasing
practices and premium  prices paid for certain varieties of
cocoa beans, these average futures contract prices are not
necessarily indicative of the Corporation's average cost of
cocoa beans or cocoa products.


                    Cocoa Futures Contract Prices
                          (cents per pound)

           1989       1990      1991       1992       1993

  Average  54.6       55.5      52.8       47.6       47.3
  High     66.8       63.5      60.0       56.2       56.7
  Low      42.4       43.6      45.6       41.3       41.8

Source:   International Cocoa Organization Quarterly Bulletin of
Cocoa Statistics

  
  The price of sugar, the Corporation's second most important
commodity for its domestic chocolate and confectionery products,
is subject to price supports under farm legislation.  Due to
import quotas and duties imposed to support the price of sugar
established by that legislation, sugar prices paid by United
States users are currently substantially higher than prices on
the world sugar market.  The average wholesale list price of
refined sugar, F.O.B. Northeast, has remained relatively stable
in a range of 28 cents to 31 cents per pound for the past ten years.  
The Corporation utilizes forward purchasing and other procurement
practices, including, from time to time, the purchase and sale
of sugar futures contracts.  Therefore, the reported prices of
sugar are not necessarily indicative of the Corporation's actual
costs.

  Other raw materials purchased in substantial quantities for
domestic manufacturing purposes include milk, peanuts, and
almonds.  The price of milk is affected by Federal Marketing
Orders and the prices of milk and peanuts are affected by price
support programs administered by the United States Department of
Agriculture.  The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
of 1990, which is a five-year extension of prior farm
legislation, was passed by Congress in October 1990.  While this
law is not substantially different from the previous farm
legislation, it continues to have an impact on the price of
sugar, peanuts and milk because it sets price support levels for
these and other commodities.

  During the first three quarters of 1993, domestic milk prices
averaged well below year earlier levels, reflecting strong milk
production throughout the country.  As a result of the wet
weather conditions in the Midwest during the summer, production
in the Minnesota-Wisconsin milkshed dropped significantly below
the prior year levels in the fourth quarter.  For the year, milk
prices were not materially different from the 1992 levels.

  As a result of an excellent 1992 crop harvest, domestic market
prices for peanuts were relatively stable through the first
three quarters of 1993.  However, prices increased modestly
during the fourth quarter due to a lower than average 1993 crop
harvest.

  Domestic almond prices began 1993 at moderate levels but
gradually increased during the first and second quarters due to
very low carry-in stocks and lower than average new crop
prospects.  Prices rose substantially during the third and
fourth quarters as the below average 1993 crop was harvested and
prices finished the year at a record high.

  Pasta is made from semolina milled from durum wheat, a class
of hard wheat grown in the United States, principally in North
Dakota.  The Corporation purchases semolina from commercial
millers and also is engaged in custom milling arrangements to
obtain sufficient quantities of high quality semolina.  A
decrease in plantings and adverse weather conditions in the
Midwest combined to reduce the quantity and quality of the 1993
durum wheat crop, and resulted in a substantial cost increase
for this raw material.  Supplies are expected to remain tight at
least until the harvest of the new crop during the fall of 1994
and prices may remain at elevated levels in the interim.


Page 4

  The Corporation has agreements with Cadbury Beverages Inc. and
affiliated companies which license the Corporation to
manufacture and/or market and distribute PETER PAUL ALMOND JOY
and PETER PAUL MOUNDS confectionery products worldwide as well
as YORK, CADBURY and CARAMELLO confectionery products in the
United States.  The Corporation's rights under these agreements
are extendable on a long-term basis at the Corporation's option. 
The license for CADBURY and CARAMELLO products is subject to a
minimum sales requirement which the Corporation substantially
exceeded in 1993.

  The Corporation also has an agreement with Societe des
Produits Nestle SA, which licenses the Corporation to
manufacture and distribute in the United States the KIT KAT and
ROLO confectionery products.  The Corporation's rights under
this agreement are extendable on a long-term basis at the
Corporation's option, subject to certain conditions, including
minimum unit volume sales.  In 1993, minimum volume requirements
were substantially exceeded.

  The Corporation's products are manufactured and sold in the
Philippines pursuant to a technical assistance and trademark
licensing agreement. The Corporation manufactures and
distributes the SKOR toffee bar in the United States and Canada
under a technology license from Freia Marabou a.s of Oslo, Norway.

  The Corporation has license agreements with Snow Brand Milk
Products Co., Ltd. ("Snow Brand") of Sapporo, Japan.  Snow Brand
manufactures and sells in Japan certain beverage and ice cream
products under the Corporation's trademarks.  The Corporation
has a Technical Assistance and Know-How and Trademark License
Agreement with Hai-Tai Confectionery Co., Ltd. ("Hai-Tai") of
Seoul, South Korea.  Pursuant to that agreement, Hai-Tai
manufactures and sells in the South Korean market certain of the
Corporation's chocolate and confectionery products.  The
Corporation has a license agreement with Maeil Dairy Industry
Co., Ltd. ("Maeil Dairy") of South Korea.  Pursuant to the
agreement, Maeil Dairy manufactures, sells and distributes
HERSHEY'S chocolate drink and chocolate puddings in South Korea.

Competition

  Many of the Corporation's brands enjoy wide consumer
acceptance and are among the leading brands sold in the
marketplace.  However, these brands are sold in highly
competitive markets and compete with many other multinational,
national, regional and local firms, some of which have resources
in excess of those available to the Corporation.

Trademarks

  The Corporation has various registered and unregistered
trademarks, service marks and licenses which are of material
importance to the Corporation's business.

Backlog of Orders

  The Corporation manufactures primarily for stock and fills
customer orders from finished goods inventories.  While at any
given time there may be some backlog of orders, such backlog is
not material in respect to total sales, nor are the changes from
time to time significant.

Research and Development

  The Corporation engages in considerable research activities
which principally involve development of new products,
improvement of the quality of existing products, and improvement
and modernization of production processes.  The Corporation also
carries out development and evaluation of new processing
techniques for both current and proposed product lines.

Regulation

  The Corporation's domestic plants are subject to inspection by
the Food and Drug Administration and various other governmental
agencies, and its products must comply with regulations under
the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and with various
comparable state statutes regulating the manufacturing and
marketing of food products.


Page 5

Environmental Considerations

  In the past the Corporation has made investments based on
compliance with environmental laws and regulations.  Such
expenditures have not been material with respect to the
Corporation's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position.

Employees

  As of December 31, 1993, the Corporation had approximately
14,300 full-time and 1,600 part-time employees, of whom
approximately 6,300 were covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  The Corporation considers its employee relations to
be good.



Item 2.  PROPERTIES

   The following is a list of the Corporation's principal
manufacturing properties.  The Corporation owns each of these
properties.

   UNITED STATES
     Hershey, Pennsylvania - Confectionery Products (3
       principal plants)
     Oakdale, California - Confectionery Products
     Stuarts Draft, Virginia - Confectionery Products
     Winchester, Virginia - Pasta Products

   CANADA
     Smiths Falls, Ontario - Confectionery and Snack Nut
       Products

   In addition to the locations indicated above, the Corporation
owns or leases several other less significant properties used
for manufacturing confectionery and pasta products, sales,
distribution and administrative functions.

   The Corporation's plants are efficient and well maintained. 
These plants generally have adequate capacity and can
accommodate seasonal demands, changing product mixes and certain
additional growth.  The largest plant is located in Hershey,
Pennsylvania.  Many additions and improvements have been made to
this facility over the years and the plant's manufacturing
equipment includes equipment of the latest type and technology. 


Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The Corporation has no material pending legal proceedings,
other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its
business.


Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   Not applicable.


Page 6

                               PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   Information concerning the principal United States trading
market for, market prices of and dividends on the Corporation's
Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, and the approximate
number of stockholders, may be found in the section "Market
Prices and Dividends" on pages 18 and 19 of the Corporation's
1993 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is
incorporated herein by reference and reproduced herein as
Exhibit 13.


Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   The following information, for the five years ended December
31, 1993, found in the section "Eleven-Year Consolidated
Financial Summary" on page 40 of the Corporation's 1993 Annual
Report to Stockholders, is incorporated herein by reference and
reproduced herein as Exhibit 13:  Net Sales; Income from
Continuing Operations before accounting changes; Income Per
Share from Continuing Operations before accounting changes
(excluding Notes g and h); Dividends Paid on Common Stock (and
related Per Share amounts); Dividends Paid on Class B Common
Stock (and related Per Share amounts); Long-term Portion of
Debt; and Total Assets.


Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   The section "Management's Discussion and Analysis", found on
pages 16 through 19, 21, 23, and 25 of the Corporation's 1993
Annual Report to Stockholders, is incorporated herein by
reference and reproduced herein as Exhibit 13.


Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The following audited consolidated financial statements of
the Corporation and its subsidiaries are found at the indicated
pages in the Corporation's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders,
and such financial statements, along with the report of the
independent public accountants thereon, are incorporated herein
by reference and reproduced herein as Exhibit 13.

  1.  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
      December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.  (Page 20)

  2.  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
      December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.  (Page 22)

  3.  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1993 and
      1992.  (Page 24)

  4.  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
      years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991.  (Page 26)

  5.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Pages 27
      through 37), including "Quarterly Data (Unaudited)." 
      (Page 37)

  6.  Report of Independent Public Accountants.  (Page 38)



Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.


Page 7
                              PART III

Item 10.
  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The names, ages, positions held with the Corporation, periods
of service as a director, principal occupations, business
experience, and other directorships of nominees for director of
the Corporation are set forth in the section "Election of
Directors" in the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its 1994
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  This information is
incorporated herein by reference. 

Executive Officers of the Corporation as of March 1, 1994

Name                 Age  Positions Held During the Last Five
                          Years

CORPORATE

K. L. Wolfe          55   Chairman of the Board and Chief
                          Executive Officer (1993); President and
                          Chief Operating Officer (1985)

R. A. Zimmerman(1)   61   Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief
                          Executive Officer (1993); Chairman of
                          the Board and Chief Executive Officer
                          (1985)

J. P. Viviano        55   President and Chief Operating Officer
                          (1993); President, Hershey Chocolate
                          U.S.A., a division of Hershey Foods
                          Corporation (1985)

W. F. Christ         53   Senior Vice President and Chief
                          Financial Officer (1994); President,
                          Hershey International, a division of
                          Hershey Foods Corporation (1988)

C. L. Duncan         54   Vice President, Research and
                          Development (1981) 

T. C. Fitzgerald     54   Vice President and Treasurer (1990);
                          Treasurer (1985)

S. A. Lambly         53   Vice President, Human Resources (1989)

W. Lehr, Jr.         53   Vice President and Secretary (1994);
                          Senior Vice President and Secretary and
                          Associate General Counsel (Securities)
                          (1988)

R. M. Reese          44   Vice President and General Counsel
                          (1993); Assistant General Counsel
                          (1987)  

J. B. Stiles         42   Vice President and Corporate Controller
                          (1990); Controller and Chief Accounting
                          Officer (1987)

B. L. Zoumas         51   Vice President, Science and Technology
                          (1992); Vice President, Technical,
                          Hershey Chocolate U.S.A. (1990); Vice
                          President, Science and Technology
                          (1981)

DIVISION

J. F. Carr           49   President, Hershey International
                          (1994); Vice President, Marketing,
                          Hershey Chocolate U.S.A. (1984)

M. F. Pasquale       46   President, Hershey Chocolate U.S.A.
                          (1994); Senior Vice President and Chief
                          Financial Officer (1988)


Page 8

Executive Officers of the Corporation

Name                 Age  Positions Held During the Last Five
                          Years

R. W. Meyers         50   President, Hershey Canada Inc., a
                          subsidiary of Hershey Foods         
                          Corporation (1990); Acting President,
                          Hershey Canada Inc. (1989) 

C. M. Skinner        60   President, Hershey Pasta Group, a
                          division of Hershey Foods Corporation
                          (1984)

R. Brace             50   Vice President, Manufacturing, Hershey
                          Chocolate U.S.A. (1987)

F. Cerminara         45   Vice President, Commodities
                          Procurement, Hershey Chocolate U.S.A.
                          (1994); Vice President, Corporate
                          Development and Commodities (1988)

D. N. Eshleman(2)    39   General Manager, Hershey Grocery, a
                          division of Hershey Foods Corporation
                          (1994); Director, Marketing, Hershey
                          Chocolate U.S.A. (1988)

M.  H. Holmes(2)     49   Vice President and General Manager,
                          Chocolate Confection, Hershey Chocolate
                          U.S.A. (1994); General Manager,
                          Grocery, Hershey Chocolate U.S.A.
                          (1989)

M. T. Matthews       47   Vice President, Sales, Hershey
                          Chocolate U.S.A. (1989)


  (1) Mr. Zimmerman retired on December 31, 1993.

  (2) Messrs. Eshleman's and Holmes' positions prior to 1994
  were not executive officer positions. 

  There are no family relationships among any of the above named
officers of the Corporation.

  Corporate Officers and Division Presidents are generally
elected each year at the organization meeting of the Board of
Directors following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in April.
 

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  Information concerning compensation of the five most highly
compensated executive officers of the Corporation individually,
and compensation of directors, is set forth in the sections
"1993 Executive Compensation" and "Compensation of Directors" in
the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its 1994 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.  This information is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT

  Information concerning ownership of the Corporation's voting
securities by certain beneficial owners, individual nominees for
directors, and by management, including the five most highly
compensated executive officers, is set forth in the section
"Voting Securities" in the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its
1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  This information is
incorporated herein by reference.


Page 9

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  Information concerning "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions" is set forth in the section "Certain Transactions
and Relationships" in the Corporation's Proxy Statement for its
1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  This information is
incorporated herein by reference.


                               PART IV

Item 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K

Item 14(a)(1):  Financial Statements

  The audited consolidated financial statements of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries and the Report of Independent
Public Accountants thereon, as required to be filed with this
report, are set forth in Item 8 of this report and are
incorporated therein by reference to specific pages of the
Corporation's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders and reproduced
herein as Exhibit 13.
  
Item 14(a)(2):  Financial Statement Schedules

  The following consolidated financial statement schedules of
the Corporation and its subsidiaries for the years ended
December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 are filed herewith on the
indicated pages in response to Item 14(d):

  1. Schedule V--Property, Plant and Equipment (Page 15)

  2. Schedule VI--Accumulated Depreciation of Property, Plant
     and Equipment (Page 16)

  3. Schedule VIII--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (Page 17)

  4. Schedule IX--Short-Term Borrowings (Page 18)

  Other schedules have been omitted as not applicable or
required, or because information required is shown in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

  Financial statements of the parent corporation only are
omitted because the Corporation is primarily an operating
corporation and there are no significant restricted net assets
of consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries.  

Item 14(a)(3):  Exhibits

  The following items are attached or incorporated by reference
in response to Item 14(c):

  (3)   Articles of Incorporation and By-laws

        The Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation,
        as amended, is incorporated by reference from Exhibit
        No. 3 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended April 3, 1988.  The By-laws, as
        amended on December 3, 1991, are incorporated by
        reference from Exhibit No. 3 to the Corporation's Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
        31, 1991.

  (4)   Instruments defining the rights of security holders,
        including indentures

        The Corporation has issued certain long-term debt
        instruments, no one class of which creates indebtedness     
        exceeding 10% of the total assets of the Corporation and
        its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  These    
        classes consist of the following:

        a.   8.45% to 9.92% Medium-Term Notes due 1994-1998

        b.   8.8% Debentures due 2021
        

Page 10

        c.   Other Obligations

        The Corporation will furnish copies of the above debt
        instruments to the Commission upon request.

        In 1993 the Corporation called and redeemed its 9.5%
        Sinking Fund Debentures due 2009 and its 9.125% 
        Sinking Fund Debentures due 2016.


  (10)  Material contracts

        a.   "After Eight, Kit Kat, and Rolo License Agreement"
             (License Agreement) between Hershey Foods
             Corporation and Rowntree Mackintosh Confectionery
             Limited is incorporated by reference from Exhibit
             No. 10(a) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1980. 
             The License Agreement was amended in 1988 and the
             Amendment Agreement is incorporated by reference
             from Exhibit No. 19 to the Corporation's Quarterly
             Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 3,
             1988.  The License Agreement was assigned by
             Rowntree Mackintosh Confectionery Limited to Societe
             des Produits Nestle SA as of January 1, 1990.  The
             Assignment Agreement is incorporated by reference
             from Exhibit No. 19 to the Corporation's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1990.

        b.   Peter Paul/York Domestic Trademark & Technology
             License Agreement between Hershey Foods Corporation
             and Cadbury Schweppes Inc. (now Cadbury Beverages
             Inc.) dated August 25, 1988, is incorporated by
             reference from Exhibit No. 2(a) to the Corporation's
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 8, 1988.

        c.   Cadbury Trademark & Technology License Agreement
             among Hershey Foods Corporation and Cadbury
             Schweppes Inc. (now Cadbury Beverages Inc.) and
             Cadbury Limited dated August 25, 1988, is
             incorporated by reference from Exhibit No. 2(a) to
             the Corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
             September 8, 1988.


        Executive Compensation Plans:

        d.   The "1987 Key Employee Incentive Plan" (the "Plan")
             is incorporated by reference from Exhibit No. 10(b)
             to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
             the year ended December 31, 1987.  The Plan was
             amended in 1991, and the amendment is incorporated
             by reference from Exhibit No. 10 to the
             Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended March 31, 1991.  The Plan was further
             amended in 1992, and the amendment is incorporated
             by reference from Exhibit No. 19 to the
             Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
             fiscal year ended December 31, 1991.

        e.   Hershey Foods Corporation's "Supplemental Executive
             Retirement Plan" is incorporated by reference from
             Exhibit No. 10(c) to the Corporation's Annual Report
             on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1982.

        f.   Hershey Foods Corporation's "Non-Management Director
             Retirement Plan" is incorporated by reference from
             Exhibit No. 19 to the Corporation's Quarterly Report
             on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29, 1992.

        g.   Hershey Foods Corporation's "Deferral Plan for Non-
             Management Directors" is incorporated by reference
             from  Exhibit No. 10 to the Corporation's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1992. 
  


  (12)  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges
        statement

        A computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges for
        the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992, 1991, 1990,
        and 1989 is attached as Exhibit No. 12.


Page 11

  (13)  Annual report to security holders

        The financial section of the Corporation's 1993 Annual
        Report to Stockholders is attached as Exhibit No. 13.  


  (21)  Subsidiaries of the Registrant

         A list setting forth subsidiaries of the Corporation is
         attached as Exhibit No. 21.


Item 14(b):Reports on Form 8-K

  No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the last
  quarter of the period covered by this report.


Page 12
                             
                             SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Corporation has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.



                                      HERSHEY FOODS CORPORATION
                                            (Registrant)

Date:  March 7, 1994                  By    W. F. CHRIST           
             
                                      (W. F. Christ, Senior Vice
                                      President and Chief
                                      Financial Officer)


   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the capacities and
on the date indicated.


Signature                 Title                       Date 


K. L. WOLFE               Chief Executive Officer     March 7, 1994 
(K. L. Wolfe)             and Director

W. F. CHRIST              Chief Financial Officer     March 7, 1994 
(W. F. Christ)

J. B. STILES              Chief Accounting Officer    March 7, 1994
(J. B. Stiles)

J. P. VIVIANO             Director                    March 7, 1994 
(J. P. Viviano)

H. O. BEAVER, JR.         Director                    March 7, 1994
(H. O. Beaver, Jr.)

T. C. GRAHAM              Director                    March 7, 1994
(T. C. Graham)

B. GUITON                 Director                    March 7, 1994
(B. Guiton)

J. C. JAMISON             Director                    March 7, 1994
(J. C. Jamison)

S. C. MOBLEY              Director                    March 7, 1994
(S. C. Mobley)

F. I. NEFF                Director                    March 7, 1994
(F. I. Neff)




Page 13

Signature                 Title                       Date 



R. J. PERA                Director                    March 7, 1994 
(R. J. Pera)

J. M. PIETRUSKI           Director                    March 7, 1994
(J. M. Pietruski)

V. A. SARNI               Director                    March 7, 1994 
(V. A. Sarni)

H. R. SHARBAUGH           Director                    March 7, 1994
(H. R. Sharbaugh)


Page 14
                                  
        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULES

To Hershey Foods Corporation:

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the consolidated financial statements included in
Hershey Foods Corporation's 1993 annual report to stockholders
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our
report thereon dated January 28, 1994.  Our audit was made for
the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
whole.  The schedules listed in Item 14(a)(2) on page 9 are the
responsibility of the Corporation's management and are presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and are not part of the basic financial
statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material
respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.



                                 ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.

New York, N.Y.
January 28, 1994



              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

   As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the
incorporation of our reports dated January 28, 1994, included or
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1993, into the Corporation's previously filed
Registration Statements on Forms S-8 or S-3 (File No. 33-12718,
File No. 33-35062, File No. 33-45431, File No. 33-45556 and File
No. 33-51089).




                                 ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.

New York, N.Y.
March 7, 1994


Page 15



Page 16



Page 17

                                                                               

Page 18





Page 19




                 HERSHEY FOODS CORPORATION ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                              Index to Exhibits




              Exhibit No.


                 12         - Computation of ratio of earnings to 
                                fixed charges statement


                 13         - Financial section of 1993 Annual Report
                                to Stockholders


                 21         - Subsidiaries of the Registrant







