
10-K
COGNIZANT 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED 12/31/99


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549
                                 ---------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                         Commission file number 0-24429

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


          Delaware                                         13-3728359
- ---------------------------------                 ------------------------------
(State or Other Jurisdiction                             (I.R.S. Employer
of Incorporation or Organization)                        Identification No.)


500 Glenpointe Centre West, Teaneck, New Jersey               07666
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                      (Zip Code)


                                 (201) 801-0233
                         ------------------------------
                             (Registrant's Telephone
                          Number, Including Area Code)


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                                          Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                        on which registered
- -------------------                                       ----------------------

- --------------------                                      ----------------------

- --------------------                                      ----------------------


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                 Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------





      Indicate by check mark whether the  Registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.


                         Yes:   X                  No:
                              ------                  ------


      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. |X|


      State the  aggregate  market  value of the  voting and  non-voting  common
equity held by non-affiliates of the Registrant: $1,001,130,640 at March 1, 2000
based on the last sales price on that date.


      Indicate  the  number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  Registrant's
classes of common stock, as of March 1, 2000:


Class                                                       Number of Shares
- -----                                                       ----------------

Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share                3,602,870

Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share                5,645,450


      The following  documents  are  incorporated  by reference  into the Annual
Report on Form 10-K: Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders  are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Report.





                                                                -----------------


                  Item                                                  Page
                  ----                                                  ----

PART I      1.    Business................................................4

            2.    Properties.............................................15

            3.    Legal Proceedings......................................16

            4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....16


PART II     5.    Market for the Company's Common Equity
                  and Related Stockholder Matters........................17

            6.    Selected Consolidated Financial Data...................19

            7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                  Financial Condition and Results of Operations .........20

            8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data............29

            9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                  on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................29


PART III    10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Company........30

            11.   Executive Compensation.................................30

            12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                  and Management.........................................30

            13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........30

PART IV     14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule,
                  and Reports on Form 8-K................................31

SIGNATURES...............................................................32

EXHIBIT INDEX............................................................34

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS..............................F-1





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

      Cognizant  Technology  Solutions  Corporation  ("CTS"  or  the  "Company")
delivers  high-quality,  cost-effective,  full life cycle  solutions  to complex
software  development  and  maintenance  problems  that  companies  face as they
transition to  e-business.  These  services are  delivered  through the use of a
seamless on-site and offshore  consulting project team. The Company's  solutions
include  application   development  and  integration,   application  management,
re-engineering, and mass change services.

      The  Company  provides  world-class  service to its  customers  through an
integrated  business model that combines a technical and account management team
located on-site at the customer location and eight  development  centers located
in India. The Company's core competencies include web-centric applications, data
warehousing, component-based development, and legacy and client-server systems.

      The Company markets and sells its technology  consulting services directly
through its  professional  staff,  senior  management and sales  personnel.  The
Company  operates out of its Teaneck,  New Jersey  headquarters and its regional
offices.  The number of customers for whom the Company has provided services has
grown from 27  customers  in 1997 to 40  customers  in 1998 and 57  customers in
1999. The Company's customers include:

  ACNielsen Corporation                       First Data Corporation
  CCC Information Services Incorporated       GEAC Computer Systems Incorporated
  Computer Sciences Corporation               Nielsen Media Research, Inc.
  The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation            Northwest Airlines, Inc.
  IMS Health Incorporated ("IMS Health")      Pacific Exchange, Inc.


INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

      Many companies today face increasing  customer  demands to improve service
levels, lower costs and shorten time to market. In this competitive environment,
improving IT systems and leveraging the internet are critical to achieving these
objectives.  At the same time, the pace of technology evolution has accelerated.
In order to remain  competitive,  companies are  increasingly  required to adopt
emerging technologies, such as:

      o     e-business and e-commerce applications;

      o     data warehousing;

      o     supply chain management; and

      o     middleware / enterprise application integration.





      These emerging  technologies offer the promise of faster, more responsive,
lower cost business  operations.  However,  their  development,  integration and
on-going  management  present  major  challenges  and require a large  number of
highly skilled  individuals trained in many diverse  technologies.  In addition,
companies also require additional  technical resources to maintain,  enhance and
re-engineer  their core legacy systems for e-business and to address mass change
projects  such as  Eurocurrency  compliance,  decimalization  in the  securities
industry,  and the Health  Insurance  Portability and  Accountability  ("HIPAA")
regulations  in  the  healthcare  industry.  Increasingly,   companies  turn  to
solutions providers such as CTS to provide these services.

      Many  companies  have made the  strategic  decision to focus on their core
competencies  and  reduce  their  cost  structures  rather  than  invest  in the
additional large IT staffs that are necessary to evaluate,  implement and manage
IT initiatives in a rapidly changing environment.  Consequently, these companies
have  turned to IT  service  providers  both to  develop  and  implement  new IT
solutions and to maintain core systems.

      As the  global  demand  for IT  services  has  increased,  the  number  of
qualified  technical  professionals  has not kept pace with  such  demand.  As a
result, some IT service providers have attempted to access the large talent pool
in  certain   developing   countries,   particularly   India.  India  is  widely
acknowledged  as a leader in offshore  software  development  and has the second
largest pool of IT talent  behind the U.S.  Historically,  IT service  providers
have used the offshore labor pool primarily to supplement the internal  staffing
needs  of  customers.  However,  evolving  customer  demands  have  led  to  the
utilization of offshore resources for higher value-added services. Such services
include  application  development,  integration  and  maintenance.  The  use  of
offshore personnel can offer a number of benefits,  including faster delivery of
new IT solutions,  more flexible scheduling and lower costs. However,  utilizing
an  offshore  workforce  to provide  value-added  services  presents a number of
challenges to IT service providers.

      The offshore  implementation  of value-added  software  services  requires
highly developed project management skills. Such skills are necessary to design,
develop  and  deploy   high-quality   technology   solutions  in  a  timely  and
cost-effective   manner.  In  addition,  IT  service  providers  must  have  the
methodologies,   processes  and  communications   capabilities  to  successfully
integrate  offshore  workforces with on-site  personnel.  Service providers must
also have strong research and development capabilities and technology competency
centers.   Finally,   service  providers   utilizing  offshore  workforces  must
continually  recruit and manage  their  workforces  to deliver  solutions  using
emerging  technologies.  As a result  of the  increasing  demand  for  global IT
services,  a significant  opportunity  exists for IT service  providers that can
successfully  address the challenges in utilizing an offshore  talent pool. In a
recent study,  McKinsey and Company has  estimated  that the market for offshore
work in India will grow from  approximately $4 billion in 1998 to $87 billion in
2008.


THE CTS SOLUTION

      CTS  is  a  leader  in  delivering  high-quality,   cost-effective,   full
life-cycle  solutions  to  complex  IT  problems  to  clients  transitioning  to
e-business  through the use of a seamless  on-site and  offshore  project  team.
These  solutions  are  comprised  of  application  development  and  integration
services,  application  management services,  reengineering  services,  and mass
change services.





      The  Company  provides  world-class  service to its  customers  through an
integrated business model. The Company's business model combines a technical and
account  management  team  located  on-site at the  customer  location and eight
development  centers  located in India.  To support  this  business  model,  the
Company has recruited and trained in excess of 2,000  programmers in India.  The
Company  has  also  put in  place  well  developed  facilities,  technology  and
communications  infrastructure.  By basing the Company's technical operations in
India,  the Company has access to a large pool of skilled,  English-speaking  IT
professionals.   Such  IT  professionals  service  customers  on  a  cost  basis
significantly  lower than in developed  countries.  The main elements of the CTS
solution,  which the Company  believes  differentiates  it from other IT service
providers, include the following:

      ESTABLISHED  AND  SCALEABLE  PROPRIETARY  PROCESSES.   To  facilitate  the
Company's cost-effective,  on-time delivery of high-quality projects integrating
an  on-site  and  offshore   team,   the  Company  has   developed   proprietary
methodologies.  Such  methodologies  are  encapsulated  in the  Company's  QView
software  engineering  process,  which is  available to all on-site and offshore
programmers.  The Company utilizes this ISO 9000 certified process to define and
implement projects from the design, development and deployment stages through to
ongoing  application  maintenance.  For every project,  QView is used to make an
extensive front-end assessment. This assessment allows the Company to define the
scope and risks of the project and  subdivide  the project into  smaller  phases
with  frequent  deliverables  and  feedback  from  customers.  The Company  also
utilizes  its QView  process to detect,  mitigate and correct  possible  quality
defects and to establish appropriate contingencies for each project. In order to
ensure  implementation  of the quality  process,  the Company  assigns a quality
facilitator to each project.  This facilitator  reports to a centralized quality
assurance  and software  engineering  group.  This group  performs,  on a sample
basis, continuous quality audits, deliverables verifications, metrics collection
and analysis, which are used to continually improve processes and methodologies.
The  Company's  processes and  methodologies  have proven to be scaleable as the
Company has increased its number of offshore development centers,  customers and
projects.  In  addition,  the  Company  is  assessed  by KPMG at  Level 4 of the
Capability  Maturity  Model of the  Software  Engineering  Institute at Carnegie
Mellon University.  The assessment for the Software Capability Maturity Model is
widely  regarded as the best means to measure  the  quality  and  maturity of an
organization's software development and maintenance processes.

      HIGHLY SKILLED WORKFORCE.  The Company has placed significant  emphasis on
recruiting  and training its  workforce of highly  skilled  professionals.  Such
professionals  must be  versed in the  Company's  processes  and  methodologies,
particularly the QView software  engineering  process.  The Company has over 150
project managers and senior technical  personnel on its worldwide staff, many of
whom have  significant  work  experience  in the United  States and Europe.  The
Company's  project  managers and senior  technical  personnel  provide  in-depth
project  management  expertise to customers.  The Company maintains programs and
personnel,  including an extensive campus  recruiting  program in India, to hire
and train the best available technical  professionals in both legacy systems and
emerging  technologies.  The Company provides five months of combined  classroom
and on-the-job  training to new hires. The Company provides  additional training
each year to continually enhance the business practices,  tools,  technology and
consulting skills of its professional staff.





      RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT  AND  COMPETENCY  CENTERS.  The Company has project
experience and expertise across multiple  architectures  and  technologies,  and
makes a substantial  on-going  investment in competency centers and research and
development to keep abreast of the latest technology developments.

      Because  most  of  the  Company's  programmers  are  trained  in  multiple
technologies and architectures, the Company is able to react to customers' needs
and  quickly  redeploy  programmers  to new  technologies.  To  facilitate  this
ability,  the Company  makes a substantial  investment in competency  centers to
leverage  its  knowledge  base  across the  company.  In  addition,  through its
investment in research and development  activities and the continuing  education
of  technical  personnel,  the  Company  assures  that  its  knowledge  base and
collective skillset keeps pace with emerging  technologies.  The ability to work
in new  technologies  allows the Company to foster  long-term  relationships  by
addressing the needs of both its existing and new customers.

      WELL  DEVELOPED   INFRASTRUCTURE.   The  Company's  extensive  facilities,
technology   and   communications   infrastructure   facilitates   the  seamless
integration  of its on-site and offshore  workforces.  This is  accomplished  by
permitting  team  members  in  different  locations  to  access  common  project
information  and to work  directly on  customer  projects.  This  infrastructure
allows for:

      o     rapid completion of projects;

      o     off-peak utilization of customers' technological resources; and

      o     real-time  access to  project  information  by the  on-site  account
            manager or the customer.

      By using the excess capacity of a customer's existing computing facilities
during off-peak hours, the Company's offshore  development centers can undertake
additional projects without substantial  customer investment in new hardware and
software. In addition,  for large projects with short time frames, the Company's
offshore  facilities allow for parallel processing of various development phases
to accelerate delivery time.


STRATEGY

      The  Company's  objective is to be a leading  provider of full  life-cycle
e-business and application  development  projects,  take full responsibility for
on-going  management of a client's  software  systems,  and move mass change and
legacy  transformation  projects  through to  completion.  The Company  provides
services to its North American and European customers, supported by its offshore
Indian  development  centers.  The Company  pursues the following  strategies to
achieve this objective:

      DEVELOP  LONG-TERM  CUSTOMER  RELATIONSHIPS AND STRATEGIC  ALLIANCES.  The
Company seeks to develop long-term  strategic  relationships  with its customers
and business  partners.  The Company tries to leverage these  relationships into
additional  project  opportunities.  For example,  the  knowledge of  customers'
systems  gained  during the  performance  of Year 2000  compliance  services has
provided  the  Company  with a  competitive  advantage  in  securing  additional
software development and maintenance projects from these customers. In addition,
the Company believes





that through its working  relationships with independent software vendors it can
obtain  projects  from such  vendors'  customers  due to the detailed  knowledge
gained in the  development  process.  Finally,  the Company has  partnered  with
select IT service firms which offer complementary services in order to best meet
customer requirements.

      EXTEND  SERVICE  OFFERINGS  AND  SOLUTIONS.  The Company has several teams
dedicated to developing new service  offerings in emerging  technologies.  These
teams  collaborate with the Company's  customers to develop such offerings.  For
example,  the Company is currently developing new solutions for data warehousing
and  e-business in selected  industries  such as  healthcare.  To facilitate the
development  of new  solutions,  the Company  invests in internal  research  and
development and promotes knowledge building and sharing across the organization.
The Company believes that the continued  expansion of its service offerings will
reduce its  reliance  on any one  technology  initiative  and  foster  long-term
relationships  with its  customers.  Because of the  Company's low offshore cost
structure,  it is  able  to  substantially  leverage  its  investment  in  these
activities.

      ENHANCE PROCESSES, METHODOLOGIES AND PRODUCTIVITY TOOLSETS. The Company is
committed to improving and enhancing its proprietary QView software  engineering
process  and other  methodologies  and  toolsets.  With the rapid  evolution  of
technology,  the Company  believes  that  continued  investment  in research and
development is critical to its success.  The Company is constantly designing and
developing additional  productivity software tools to automate testing processes
and improve  project  estimation  and risk  assessment  techniques.  The Company
continually  refines its  processes by utilizing  groupware  technology to share
project experience and best practice methodologies across the organization.

      EXPAND GEOGRAPHIC  PRESENCE.  As the Company expands its customer base, it
plans to open additional sales and marketing offices in the United States.  This
will  enable  the  Company  to  sell to and  support  existing  and  prospective
customers.  The Company has established  sales and marketing  offices in Chicago
and  San  Francisco.   In  addition,   the  Company  has  been  pursuing  market
opportunities  in Europe through its U.K.  office,  which was established in the
beginning of 1998 and its Germany office,  which opened during 1999. The Company
operates in Canada through its Toronto office, which was established in 1997.

      PURSUE  SELECTIVE  STRATEGIC  ACQUISITIONS.   The  Company  believes  that
opportunities  exist in the fragmented IT services market to expand its business
through  selective  strategic  acquisitions  and/or joint ventures.  The Company
believes  that  acquisition  and or joint  venture  candidates  may enable it to
expand its geographic presence, enter new technology areas or expand capacity.


SERVICES

      The Company provides a broad range of software services, including:

      o     application development and integration;

      o     application management;

      o     re-engineering; and





      o     mass change.

      The  Company's  range of services  enables it to meet  customer  needs for
systems   development/integration,   application  management  and  mass   change
implementation.  The Company uses its QView software  engineering  process,  its
on-site and offshore  delivery model and well developed  facilities,  technology
and communications  infrastructure to deliver these services.  For each of these
services, the Company utilizes its QView proprietary processes and methodologies
to define the execution and delivery of the projects.

Service                                 Summary Description of Service Offerings
- -------                                 ----------------------------------------

Application Development and
Integration..................   Define requirements,  write  specifications  and
                                design,  develop,  test and  integrate  software
                                across  multiple  platforms  including  internet
                                technologies.

Application Management.......   Support some or all of a customer's applications
                                ensuring  that systems  remain  operational  and
                                responsive to changing user requirements, and to
                                provide on-going  enhancement as required by the
                                customer.

Re-engineering...............   Modify and test  applications  to enable systems
                                to function in new operating environments.

Mass Change..................   Renovate   applications  to  correctly  function
                                after a mass regulatory and/or standards change.

     APPLICATION  DEVELOPMENT  SERVICES.   The  Company  follows  either of  two
alternative approaches to application development and integration:

     o    full life cycle application development,  in which the Company assumes
          total start-to-finish  responsibility and accountability for analysis,
          design, implementation, testing and integration of systems; or

     o    cooperative development,  in which the Company's employees work with a
          customer's   in-house  IT  personnel  to  jointly   analyze,   design,
          implement, test and integrate new systems.

     In both cases,  the  Company's  on-site  team members work closely with the
end-users of the application to develop  specifications and define requirements.
Detailed design,  implementation and testing are generally performed offshore at
the Company's eight software  development centers located in India. In addition,
the Company maintains an on-site presence at the customer's location in order to
address evolving customer needs and resulting changes to the project.

     A key  part  of  the  Company's  application  development  and  integration
offering  is a suite of  services  to help  organizations  build  and  integrate
e-business  applications  with  the  rest of the  enterprise.  In this  suite of
offerings,   the  Company  leverages  its  skills  in  e-business   applications




development  and  enterprise  application  integration  to  build  sophisticated
e-business  applications  and to integrate these new  applications  and websites
with  mainstream  and legacy  systems.  The Company  builds and deploys  robust,
scalable  and  extensible  Internet  architectures  for  transaction  intensive,
mission critical  applications.  The Company has competency centers specializing
in Microsoft,  IBM and Sun Technologies.  The Company builds secure applications
using several advanced technologies including RSA and SSL standards.

      APPLICATION  MANAGEMENT SERVICES.  The Company provides services to ensure
that a customer's core operational systems are free of defects and responsive to
end-users'  changing  needs. In doing so, the Company is often able to introduce
product  and  process  enhancements  and  improve  service  levels to  customers
requesting modifications and on-going support.

      Through the Company's  on-site and offshore delivery model, the Company is
able to provide a range of  support  services  to its  customers.  On-site  team
members often provide help desk services at the customer's facility.  These team
members  typically carry pagers in the event of an emergency service request and
are often available to quickly resolve customer  problems from remote locations.
More complex maintenance  services,  including  modifications,  enhancements and
documentation,  which  typically  have longer turn around  times,  are completed
offshore.  Such  services are  completed  utilizing  satellite  and  fiber-optic
telecommunications  and the  resources  of the  Company's  software  development
centers.

      RE-ENGINEERING  SERVICES.  Through the  Company's  re-engineering  service
offerings,  the Company works with customers to migrate  systems based on legacy
computing environments to newer, open systems-based  platforms and client/server
architectures,  often in response to the more  stringent  demands of e-business.
The Company's  re-engineering  tools automate many of the processes  required to
implement advanced  client/server  technologies.  Such automation  substantially
reduces the time and cost to perform  these  services.  These  tools  enable the
Company to perform  source code analysis and to re-design  target  databases and
convert certain  programming  languages.  If necessary,  the Company's  software
engineers also re-design and convert user interfaces.

      MASS CHANGE.  Through the Company's  mass change  service  offerings,  the
Company  assists  customers  in  renovating  their  core  systems  to  meet  the
requirements  imposed  by new  regulations,  new  standards,  or other  external
events. The Company's mass change services include, or have previously included,
Year  2000  compliance,  Eurocurrency  compliance,   decimalization  within  the
securities  industry  and HIPAA,  a new set of  regulations  for the  healthcare
industry.


CUSTOMERS

      The Company  provided  services to a total of 27, 40 and 57  customers  in
1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively. During 1997, 1998 and 1999, the Company's top
five customers  accounted for 77.5%, 60.5% and 57.3% of revenues,  respectively.
During 1997,  1998 and 1999, IMS Health and its current  subsidiaries  accounted
for  23.7%,  18.0%  and  16.7% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  volume of work
performed  for  specific  customers  is likely to vary from year to year,  and a
significant  customer  in one  year  may  not use the  Company's  services  in a
subsequent  year.  The Company's  ten largest  customers  accounted  for, in the
aggregate,  approximately  92.3%,  81.0% and 75.3% of the Company's  revenues in
1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.  In 1997, Cognizant Corporation and ACNielsen
accounted for more than 40.0% and 10.0% of





revenues,  respectively.  In  1998,  IMS  Health,  First  Data  Corporation  and
ACNielsen each accounted for more than 10.0% of revenue. In 1999, IMS Health and
First  Data   Corporation  each  accounted  for  more  than  10.0%  of  revenue.
Approximately 44.4%, 44.1% and 15.6% of the Company's revenues were derived from
Year 2000 compliance services in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.  Application
development  services  represented  approximately  19.4%, 25.8% and 32.3% of the
Company's revenues in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively. Application maintenance
services accounted for 28.4%, 21.1% and 44.0% of the Company's revenues in 1997,
1998 and 1999, respectively.


SALES AND MARKETING

      The  Company  markets  and  sells  its  services   directly   through  its
professional  staff, senior management and direct sales persons operating out of
its  Teaneck,  New  Jersey  headquarters  and  business  development  offices in
Chicago, San Francisco, Toronto, Frankfurt and London. At December 31, 1999, the
Company had 12 direct sales persons and approximately 40 account  managers.  The
sales and marketing  group works with the Company's  technical team as the sales
process moves closer to the customer's selection of an IT service provider.  The
duration of the sales process varies  depending on the type of service,  ranging
from  approximately  two months to over one year.  The account  manager or sales
executive works with the technical team to:

      o     define the scope, deliverables, assumptions and execution strategies
            for a proposed project;

      o     develop project estimates;

      o     prepare pricing and margin analyses; and

      o     finalize sales proposals.

      Management reviews and approves all proposals, which are then presented to
the prospective customer. Sales and account management personnel remain actively
involved in the project through the execution phase.

      The Company  focuses its marketing  efforts on businesses  with  intensive
information   processing  needs.  The  Company  maintains  a   prospect/customer
database,  which is continuously updated and utilized throughout the sales cycle
from prospect  qualification to close. As a result of this marketing system, the
Company prequalifies sales opportunities,  and direct sales  representatives are
able to  minimize  the  time  spent  on  prospect  qualification.  In  addition,
substantial  emphasis is placed on customer  retention and expansion of services
provided to existing customers.


COMPETITION

      The IT services market includes a large number of participants, is subject
to rapid change and is intensely competitive.  This market includes participants
from a variety of market segments, including:

      o     systems integration firms;





      o     contract programming companies;

      o     application software companies;

      o     Internet solutions providers;

      o     the professional services groups of computer equipment companies;

      o     facilities management and outsourcing companies; and

      o     "Big Five" accounting firms.

      The market also includes numerous smaller local competitors in the various
geographic  markets in which the Company  operates.  The Company  competes with,
among others:

   Alydaar Corp.                             Mastech Corporation
   Cambridge Technology Partners, Inc.       Sapient Corporation
   Cap Gemini America, Inc.                  Satyam Computer Services Limited
   Complete Business Solutions, Inc.         SHL Systemhouse (a division of MCI
   Computer Horizons Corp.                     Communications Corporation)
   Computer Task Group, Inc.                 Syntel, Inc.
   Information Management Resources, Inc.    Tanning Technology Corporation
   Infosys, Inc.                             Tata Consultancy Services
   IBM Global Services                       Whittman-Hart, Inc.
   Keane, Inc.

      In certain markets in which the Company competes, there are no significant
barriers to entry. Current and potential  competitors may introduce new and more
competitive  services,  make  strategic  acquisitions  or establish  cooperative
relationships  among  themselves  or with  third  parties.  As a  result,  these
competitors  increase  the  ability of their  services  to address  the needs of
customers.   Many  of  the  Company's  competitors  have  significantly  greater
financial,  technical and marketing  resources and greater name recognition than
us. The principal  competitive  factors  affecting the markets for the Company's
services include:

      o     performance and reliability;

      o     quality of technical support, training and services;

      o     responsiveness to customer needs;

      o     reputation, experience and financial stability; and

      o     competitive pricing of services.

      The Company competes by offering:

      o     a well developed recruiting, training and retention model;





      o     a successful service delivery model;

      o     an excellent referral base;

      o     continual investment in process improvement and knowledge capture;

      o     investment in research and development; and

      o     continued  focus on  responsiveness  to customer  needs,  quality of
            services,  competitive prices,  project management  capabilities and
            technical expertise.

      In order to be  successful  in the future,  the Company  must  continue to
respond  promptly  and  effectively  to  technological  change and  competitors'
innovations.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete
successfully  against current and future  competitors.  The Company's failure to
successfully  compete  could have a material  adverse  effect upon its business,
results of operations and financial condition.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

      The Company's  consulting  business  includes the  development of software
applications   and  other   technology   deliverables.   These  include  written
specifications   and   documentation   in  connection  with  specific   customer
engagements.  The  Company's  future  success  depends in part on its ability to
protect its intellectual property rights. The Company presently holds no patents
or registered copyrights. The Company relies upon a combination of copyright and
trade secret laws, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements and various
security measures to protect its intellectual property rights. India is a member
of the Berne Convention,  and has agreed to recognize  protections on copyrights
conferred under the laws of foreign countries,  including the laws of the United
States.  The Company  believes  that laws,  rules,  regulations  and treaties in
effect  in the  United  States  and  India  are  adequate  to  protect  it  from
misappropriation or unauthorized use of the Company's copyrights. However, there
can be no assurance that such laws will not change and, in particular,  that the
laws of India will not change in ways that may prevent or restrict  the transfer
of software components,  libraries and toolsets from India to the United States.
There can be no  assurance  that the steps  taken by the  Company to protect its
intellectual  property rights will be adequate to deter  misappropriation of any
of the  Company's  intellectual  property,  or that the Company  will be able to
detect  unauthorized  use and take  appropriate  steps to enforce the  Company's
rights.


EMPLOYEES

      At December 31, 1999, the Company employed  approximately 450 persons on a
full-time basis in the its North American headquarters and satellite offices and
on-site North American customer locations (25 of whom are United States citizens
or permanent residents). The Company also employed approximately 91 persons on a
full-time basis in its European  satellite office and on-site European  customer
locations and  approximately  1,680 persons on a full-time basis in its offshore
software  development  centers in India. As of December 31, 1999,  approximately
425,  or 94% of the  Company's  employees  working  in the United  States,  were
working in nonimmigrant  work-permitted  visa  classifications,  including H-1B,
L-1A and L-1B.





None  of  the  Company's  employees  is  subject  to  a  collective   bargaining
arrangement. The Company considers its relations with employees to be good.

      The  Company's  future  success  depends  to a  significant  extent on its
ability  to  attract,  train and  retain  highly  skilled  software  development
professionals.  In  particular,  the Company needs to attract,  train and retain
project managers,  software engineers and other senior technical personnel.  The
Company  believes  that in both the United  States and India there is a shortage
of, and significant competition for, software development professionals with the
advanced  technological  skills necessary to perform the services offered by the
Company. The Company has an active recruitment program in India. The Company has
developed  a  recruiting   system  and  database  that   facilitates  the  rapid
identification of skilled candidates. During the course of the year, the Company
visits  approximately  52 premier  colleges and technical  schools in India. The
Company  evaluates  candidates based on academic  performance,  the results of a
written  aptitude  test  measuring   problem-solving   skills  and  a  technical
interview. In addition, the Company has an active lateral recruiting program.

      Senior project managers are primarily hired from leading  consulting firms
in  the  United  States  and  India.   The  Company's   senior   management  and
substantially all of the project managers have experience  working in the United
States and Europe.

      The Company also has adopted a career and education  management program to
define  the  employees'  objectives  and  career  plans.  Through  an  intensive
orientation and training  program,  the Company  introduces new employees to the
QView software engineering process and its services.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

      The  Company's  executive  and business  development  office is located in
Teaneck,  New Jersey.  The Company  believes  that its  current  facilities  are
adequate to support its existing  operations.  The Company also believes that it
will be able to obtain suitable additional facilities on commercially reasonable
terms on an "as needed" basis.

      The Company occupies the following properties, which are all leased:







ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      There is no  material  litigation  to which the  Company  is a party or to
which any of the Company's property is subject.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTER TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      Not applicable.





                                   PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

      Prior to June 1998,  there was no  established  market  for the  Company's
Class A Common Stock.  Since June 19, 1998,  the Class A Common Stock has traded
on the Nasdaq National Market ("NNM") under the symbol "CTSH".

      All of the issued and outstanding  shares of Class B Common Stock are held
by IMS Health.  Each outstanding share of Class B Common Stock is convertible at
the holder's  option into one share of Class A Common Stock at any time prior to
a Tax-Free  Spin-Off (as defined  below).  If a Tax-Free  Spin-Off  occurs,  the
stockholders  of IMS  Health  will  receive  Class B Common  Stock,  which  will
continue  to have ten votes per  share  (as  compared  to one vote per share for
Class A Common  Stock).  Such shares of Class B Common Stock shall  convert upon
transfer to Class A Common Stock but shall no longer be convertible  into shares
of Class A Common Stock at the option of the holder. Additionally, each share of
Class B Common  Stock  automatically  converts  into one share of Class A Common
Stock if at any time the number of  outstanding  shares of Class B Common  Stock
represents  less  than  35.0%  of  the  economic  ownership  represented  by the
aggregate number of shares of Common Stock then outstanding.

      Except as provided below,  any shares of Class B Common Stock  transferred
to a person other than IMS Health shall automatically convert to shares of Class
A Common Stock upon such disposition. Shares of Class B Common Stock transferred
to  stockholders  of IMS Health in a  transaction  intended  to be on a tax-free
basis (a  "Tax-Free  Spin-Off")  under the Code  shall not  convert to shares of
Class A Common Stock upon the occurrence of such Tax-Free Spin-Off.

      Following  a  Tax-Free  Spin-Off,  shares  of Class B Common  Stock  shall
convert upon transfer to Class A Common Stock; provided, however, that shares of
Class B Common Stock shall  automatically  convert into shares of Class A Common
Stock on the fifth  anniversary of the Tax-Free  Spin-Off,  unless prior to such
Tax-Free Spin-Off,  IMS Health delivers to the Company written advice of counsel
reasonably  satisfactory  to the Company to the effect that (i) such  conversion
could  adversely  affect the ability of IMS Health to obtain a favorable  ruling
from the  Internal  Revenue  Service that the  distribution  would be a Tax-Free
Spin-Off or (ii) the Internal  Revenue Service has adopted a general  non-ruling
policy on tax-free spin-offs and that such conversion could adversely affect the
status of the  transaction  as a Tax-Free  Spin-Off.  If such written  advice is
received,  approval  of such  conversion  shall  be  submitted  to a vote of the
holders of the Common Stock as soon as practicable  after the fifth  anniversary
of the  Tax-Free  Spin-Off,  unless IMS Health  delivers to the Company  written
advice  of  counsel  reasonably  satisfactory  to  the  Company  prior  to  such
anniversary that such vote could adversely affect the status of the distribution
as a Tax-Free Spin-Off,  including the ability to obtain a favorable ruling from
the Internal  Revenue  Service.  If such written advice is delivered,  such vote
shall not be held. Approval of such conversion will require the affirmative vote
of the  holders  of a majority  of the  shares of both Class A Common  Stock and
Class B Common Stock present and voting, voting together as a single class, with
each share entitled to one vote for such purpose. No assurance can be given that
such conversion would be consummated. The foregoing requirements are intended to
ensure that tax-free  treatment of a Tax-Free  Spin-Off is preserved





should the Internal  Revenue  Service  challenge  such  automatic  conversion as
violating  the  80.0%  vote  requirement  currently  required  by the Code for a
Tax-Free Spin-Off.

       On February 11, 2000,  the Board of  Directors  declared a 2-for-1  stock
split effected by a 100% dividend  payable on March 16, 2000 to  stockholders of
record on March 2, 2000. Pro forma  unaudited  earnings per share  reflective of
the stock split have been presented in the Company's  Consolidated  Statement of
Operations.  The  historical  share and per share  amounts  in the  consolidated
financial  statements have not been restated to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split.
Such amounts will be restated upon the effective date of the stock dividend.

      The following  table sets forth the high and low sales price for the Class
A Common Stock for each of the quarters since the quarter ended June 30, 1998 as
reported on NNM. Such quotations  reflect  inter-dealer  prices,  without retail
mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not represent actual transactions.



      As of March 1, 2000,  the  approximate  number of holders of record of the
Class A Common Stock was 16.

      As of March 1, 2000,  all of the  outstanding  Class B Common Stock of the
Company was owned by IMS Health.

      The Company has never  declared or paid cash  dividends  on its Class A or
Class B Common  Stock.  The  Company  currently  intends  to retain  any  future
earnings  to  finance  the  growth  of the  business  and,  therefore,  does not
currently anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.





ITEM 6.           SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

      The following table sets forth selected consolidated  historical financial
data of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated.  The selected
consolidated  financial  data set forth below for the Company as of December 31,
1998 and 1999 and for each of the three years in the period  ended  December 31,
1999 are  derived  from the  audited  financial  statements  included  elsewhere
herein. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below for the Company
as of December 31, 1995,  1996 and 1997 and for each of the years ended December
31, 1995 and 1996 are derived from the audited financial statements not included
elsewhere herein. The selected consolidated financial information for 1997, 1998
and  1999  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and the Notes and "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" which are included  elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



(1)  See Note 14. to the Consolidated Financial  Statements




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

      The  Company  delivers  high-quality,   cost-effective,  full  life  cycle
solutions  to  complex  software   development  and  maintenance  problems  that
companies face as they  transition to  e-business.  These services are delivered
through the use of a seamless on-site and offshore  consulting project team. The
Company's primary service offerings include:

      o     application development and integration;

      o     application management;

      o     re-engineering; and

      o     mass change.

      The  Company  began its  software  development  and  maintenance  services
business in early 1994, as an in-house technology development center for The Dun
& Bradstreet  Corporation and its operating  units. In 1996, the Company,  along
with Erisco, IMS International, Nielsen Media Research, Pilot Software and Sales
Technologies  and certain other  entities,  plus a majority  interest in Gartner
Group were spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation to form a new company,
Cognizant  Corporation.  In 1997,  the  Company  purchased  the  24.0%  minority
interest in its Indian  subsidiary  from a third party for $3.4 million,  making
the Indian subsidiary wholly owned by the Company.

      On February 11,  2000,  the Board of  Directors  declared a 2-for-1  stock
split effected by a 100% dividend  payable on March 16, 2000 to  stockholders of
record on March 2, 2000. Pro forma  unaudited  earnings per share  reflective of
the stock split have been presented in the Company's  Consolidated  Statement of
Operations. The historical share and per share amounts have not been restated to
reflect  the  2-for-1  stock  split.  Such  amounts  will be  restated  upon the
effective date of the stock dividend.

      In June 1998, the Company  completed its initial public offering.  On June
30, 1998, a majority  interest in the Company,  Erisco,  IMS  International  and
certain other  entities were spun-off  from  Cognizant  Corporation  to form IMS
Health.  At  December  31,  1999,  IMS  Health  owned  approximately  61% of the
outstanding  stock of the Company  and held  approximately  94% of the  combined
voting power of the Company's common stock.

      During 1996,  the Company made a strategic  decision to attract  customers
that  were  not  affiliated  with  Cognizant  Corporation  or any of the  former
affiliates   of  The  Dun  &  Bradstreet   Corporation.   As  a  result  of  the
implementation of this strategy, the Company has successfully  transitioned from
a company  primarily  serving  affiliated  customers to a company whose customer
base now consists primarily of unaffiliated third parties. For example, revenues
derived from  customers not currently or  previously  affiliated  with The Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation,  Cognizant  Corporation,  IMS Health,  and any of their
respective subsidiaries grew





from $6.5 million,  or 26.4% of revenues,  in 1997 to $26.9 million, or 46.0% of
revenues,   in  1998  and  $50.5  million,  or  56.8%  of  revenues,   in  1999.
Approximately 73.6%, 54.0% and 43.2% of the Company's revenues in 1997, 1998 and
1999, respectively,  were generated from current and former affiliates including
approximately  23.7%,  18.0% and  16.7%,  respectively,  from IMS Health and its
current subsidiaries.

      The Company has derived  and  believes  that it will  continue to derive a
significant  portion of its revenues from a limited number of large  third-party
customers.  During 1997,  1998 and 1999,  the Company's  five largest  customers
(other than IMS Health and its current subsidiaries)  accounted for 50.8%, 43.7%
and  44.9%  of  revenues,  respectively.  In  1997,  Cognizant  Corporation  and
ACNielsen accounted for more than 40.0% and 10.0% of revenues,  respectively. In
1998, IMS Health,  First Data  Corporation and ACNielsen each accounted for more
than 10.0% of revenue. In 1999, IMS Health and First Data Corporation  accounted
for more than 10.0% of revenue.  The volume of work performed for IMS Health and
its  subsidiaries and other customers is likely to vary from year to year. Major
customers,  whether affiliated or unaffiliated,  in one year may not provide the
same level of revenues in any subsequent year.

      Historically,  Year 2000 compliance  services were an important element of
the Company's service  offerings.  Approximately  44.4%,  44.1% and 15.6% of the
Company's revenues were derived from Year 2000 compliance services in 1997, 1998
and 1999,  respectively.  Revenues  derived from providing Year 2000  compliance
services have become an increasingly less significant component of the Company's
overall revenue base. The Company believes that it has successfully utilized its
Year 2000 compliance expertise to establish relationships with new customers and
deepen its relationships  with existing  customers.  The knowledge of customers'
systems gained while performing Year 2000 compliance services gave the Company a
competitive  advantage  in  securing  additional  application   development  and
application management projects and projects for such customers.

      Application development and integration services represented approximately
19.4%,  25.8%  and  32.3% of  revenues  in 1997,  1998 and  1999,  respectively.
Application management services accounted for 28.4%, 21.1% and 44.0% of revenues
in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

      The  Company's  services are performed on either a  time-and-materials  or
fixed-price  basis.  The Company  expects  that an  increasing  number of future
projects  will  be  fixed-price  rather  than   time-and-materials   (which  has
historically   been  the  basis  for  its   contracts).   Revenues   related  to
time-and-materials  contracts  are  recognized  as  the  service  is  performed.
Revenues   related  to   fixed-price   contracts   are   recognized   using  the
percentage-of-completion  method of  accounting.  Under such  method,  the sales
value of performance,  including earnings thereon, is recognized on the basis of
the percentage  that each  contract's  cost to date bears to the total estimated
contract cost.  Estimates are subject to adjustment as a project progresses,  to
reflect  changes in expected  completion  costs.  The  cumulative  impact of any
revision in estimates of the  percentage  of work  completed is reflected in the
financial  reporting  period in which the change in the estimate  becomes known.
Additionally,  any  anticipated  losses are  recognized  immediately.  Since the
Company  bears  the  risk  of  cost  over-runs  and  inflation  associated  with
fixed-price projects,  the Company's operating results may be adversely affected
by changes in estimates of contract completion costs.





      The majority of the Company's  revenues are earned  within North  America.
Revenues outside of North America totaled $3.5 million,  $10.7 million and $17.7
million in 1997, 1998 and 1999,  respectively.  Revenues from customers  located
outside of North America have been generated primarily in the United Kingdom and
Germany.  As a  percentage  of  revenues,  revenues  outside  of  North  America
represented  14.3%,  18.3% and 19.9% in 1997, 1998 and 1999,  respectively.  The
primary  denomination for invoices issued by the Company is U.S.  dollars,  with
the  exception  of invoices  issued in Canada,  Germany and the United  Kingdom.
Invoices  issued in Canada,  Germany and the United  Kingdom are issued in local
currency.  Gains and  losses as a result of  fluctuations  in  foreign  currency
exchange  rates  have not had a  significant  impact on  historical  results  of
operations.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      The following table sets forth for the periods indicated certain financial
data expressed as a percentage of total revenue:

                                                YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                             1997         1998       1999
                                         -----------  ----------  --------

Total revenues........................      100.0%       100.0%      100.0%
Cost of revenues......................       58.0         54.5        51.9
                                           ------       ------      ------
   Gross profit.......................       42.0         45.5        48.1
Selling, general and administrative
expenses..............................       27.8         26.5        25.9
Depreciation and amortization expense.        5.6          3.8         3.4
                                           ------       ------      ------
   Income from operations.............        8.6         15.2        18.8
Other income:
   Interest income....................        0.1          1.1         1.4
   Other income.......................         --          0.1          --
                                           ------       ------      ------
Total other income....................        0.1          1.2         1.4
                                           ------       ------      ------
Income before provision for income
 taxes................................        8.7         16.4        20.2
Provision for income taxes............       (2.3)        (6.2)       (7.6)
Minority interest.....................       (2.2)          --          --
                                           ------       ------      ------
Net  income...........................        4.2%        10.3%       12.6%
                                           ======       ======      ======


YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

      REVENUE.  Revenue increased by 51.7%, or $30.3 million, from $58.6 million
during 1998 to $88.9 million during 1999. This increase resulted  primarily from
a $42.3 million  (129.1%)  increase in application  development and integration,
application management,  reengineering and other services partially offset by an
approximately  $12.0 million (46.4%) decrease in Year 2000 compliance  services.
The percentage of revenues derived from unrelated  parties  increased from 76.8%
during 1998 to 83.3% during 1999.  This  increase  resulted  primarily  from the
Company's continued efforts to pursue unaffiliated third-party customers and the
impact of the  spin-off  in June 1998 of a  majority  interest  in the  Company,
Erisco,  IMS  International  and certain other entities to form IMS Health.  For
statement of operations  purposes,  revenues  from related  parties only include
revenues  recognized during the period in which the related party was affiliated
with the Company. During 1999, sales to one related party customer accounted for
16.7% of revenues





and one third-party customer accounted for 17.4% of revenues. During 1998, sales
to  one  related  party  customer  accounted  for  23.2%  of  revenues  and  two
third-party customers accounted for 12.5% and 11.3% of revenues, respectively.

      GROSS PROFIT.  The Company's  cost of revenues  consists  primarily of the
cost of salaries, payroll taxes, benefits,  immigration and travel for technical
personnel,  and the cost of sales commissions related to revenues. The Company's
cost of revenues increased by 44.6%, or $14.2 million, from $31.9 million during
1998 to $46.2  million  during  1999.  The  increase  was due  primarily  to the
increased  cost  resulting  from the  increase  in the  number of the  Company's
technical  professionals from approximately 1,400 employees at December 31, 1998
to  approximately  2,000 employees at December 31, 1999. The increased number of
technical  professionals  is a direct result of greater demand for the Company's
services.  The Company's gross profit increased by 60.2%, or approximately $16.1
million,  from  approximately  $26.7 million during 1998 to approximately  $42.7
million during 1999. Gross profit margin increased from 45.5% of revenues during
1998 to 48.1% of revenues  during 1999. The increase in such gross profit margin
was primarily  attributable to the increased  third-party  revenue and the shift
toward newer, higher margin customers.

      SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  consist  primarily  of  salaries,  employee  benefits,
travel,  promotion,  communications,  management,  finance,  administrative  and
occupancy  costs.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses,   including
depreciation and amortization,  increased by 46.9%, or $8.3 million,  from $17.8
million  during 1998 to $26.1 million during 1999, but decreased as a percentage
of  revenue  from 30.3% to 29.4%,  respectively.  The  dollar  increase  in such
expenses was  primarily due to expenses  incurred to expand the Company's  sales
and marketing  activities and increased  infrastructure  expenses to support the
Company's revenue growth.  The decrease in selling,  general and  administrative
expenses  as a  percentage  of revenue  resulted  from the  Company's  increased
revenues.

      INCOME FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income from operations  increased 86.6%, or $7.7
million,   from  $8.9  million   during  1998  to  $16.6  million  during  1999,
representing  15.2%  and  18.7%  of  revenues,  respectively.  The  increase  in
operating margin was primarily due to the increased  third-party revenue and the
shift toward newer, higher margin customers, discussed above.

      OTHER  INCOME.  Other income  consists  primarily  of interest  income and
foreign  currency  exchange gains.  Interest income  increased by  approximately
$625,000,  from $638,000 during 1998 to approximately  $1.3 million during 1999.
The  increase  in  such  interest  income  was  attributable  primarily  to  the
investment  of the net proceeds  generated  from the  Company's  initial  public
offering and generally higher operating cash balances.  The Company recognized a
net foreign currency  exchange loss of  approximately  $32,000 during 1999, as a
result of changes in exchange rates on its transactions.

      PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. Historically, through the date of the IPO, the
Company had been included in the consolidated  federal income tax returns of The
Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and Cognizant Corporation.  The Company's provision
for income taxes in the  consolidated  statements of income reflects the federal
and state income taxes calculated on the





Company's stand alone basis.  The provision for income taxes increased from $3.6
million in 1998 to $6.7 million in 1999,  with an effective tax rate of 37.4% in
both 1998 and 1999.

      NET INCOME.  Net income increased from  approximately $6.0 million in 1998
to $11.2  million  in 1999,  representing  10.3%  and 12.6% as a  percentage  of
revenues, respectively.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

      REVENUE. Revenue increased by 136.8%, or $33.9 million, from $24.7 million
in 1997 to $58.6  million  in 1998.  This  increase  included  $14.9  million of
increased Year 2000 compliance services, and $19.0 million of increased sales of
application development and integration,  application management,  reengineering
and other  services.  Revenue  growth  resulted,  in part,  from the  successful
implementation of the Company's Year 2000 rollover  strategy,  pursuant to which
Year 2000  clients  have been  converted to include  non-Year  2000  assignments
including software development and maintenance.  The percentage of revenues from
unrelated  parties  increased from 56.2% in 1997 to 76.8% in 1998. This increase
resulted primarily from the Company's  continued efforts to pursue  unaffiliated
third-party  customers and the impact of the spin-off in June 1998 of a majority
interest in the Company's  company,  Erisco, IMS International and certain other
entities to form IMS Health,  and the establishment of Nielsen Media Research as
a separate  publicly  traded  company.  For  statement of  operations  purposes,
revenues from related parties only include revenues recognized during the period
in which the related party was affiliated with the Company.  Accordingly,  as of
July 1, 1998, Nielsen Media Research was no longer deemed to be a related party.
During 1998, sales to one related party customer accounted for 23.2% of revenues
and two  third-party  customers  accounted  for  12.5%  and  11.3% of  revenues,
respectively.  During 1997,  sales to one related party  customer  accounted for
44.3% of revenues and one third-party customer accounted for 13.9% of revenues.

      GROSS PROFIT. The Company's cost of revenues increased by 122.3%, or $17.6
million,  from $14.4 million in 1997 to $31.9 million in 1998.  The increase was
due primarily to the increased cost resulting from the increase in the number of
the  Company's  technical  professionals  from  approximately  900  employees at
December 31, 1997 to  approximately  1,400  employees at December 31, 1998.  The
Company's gross profit increased by 157.0%, or approximately $16.3 million, from
approximately  $10.4  million in 1997 to  approximately  $26.7  million in 1998.
Gross  profit  margin  increased  from  42.0%  of  revenues  in 1997 to 45.5% of
revenues in 1998. The increase in gross profit margin was primarily attributable
to the  increased  third party  revenue  which have higher  margins and a higher
utilization level of technical professionals during 1998 compared to 1997.

      SELLING,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE  EXPENSES.   Selling,  general  and
administrative expenses,  including depreciation and amortization,  increased by
115.2%, or $9.5 million, from $8.3 million in 1997 to $17.8 million in 1998, but
decreased as a  percentage  of revenue  from 33.4% to 30.3%,  respectively.  The
increase  in such  expenses in absolute  dollars was  primarily  due to expenses
incurred to expand the Company's  sales and marketing  activities  and increased
infrastructure expenses to support the Company's revenue growth. The decrease in
selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue resulted
from the Company's continued ability to leverage the significant  investments it
made in the  beginning of 1997 to




establish a sales and marketing  organization  and to create the  infrastructure
necessary to operate as an independent company.

      INCOME FROM  OPERATIONS.  Income from operations  increased 318.9% or $6.8
million,  from $2.1 million in 1997 to $8.9 million in 1998,  representing  8.6%
and 15.2% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  increase  in  operating  margin was
primarily due to the increased  third-party revenue,  which generally has higher
margins and the higher  utilization level of technical  professionals  mentioned
above.

      OTHER INCOME.  Interest income  increased by $613,000 from $25,000 in 1997
to  $638,000 in 1998.  The  increase in such  interest  income was  attributable
primarily to increased  interest income resulting from the investment of the net
proceeds  generated  from the Company's  initial  public  offering and generally
higher cash balances.  The Company  recognized a net foreign  currency  exchange
gain of $83,000 in 1998, as a result of the effect of changing exchange rates on
the Company's transactions.

      PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  The provision for income taxes increased from
$581,000 in 1997 to $3.6 million in 1998  resulting in an effective  tax rate of
27.0% in 1997 and 37.4% in 1998.  Without the effect of minority  interest,  the
effective tax rate would have been approximately 35.0% in 1997.

      MINORITY INTEREST.  In 1997, minority interest expense was $545,000.  This
expense was attributable to profitability of the Company's Indian  subsidiary in
which an unaffiliated  third party held a 24.0% minority  interest.  The Company
purchased the minority  interest in October 1997 for $3.4  million.  The Company
has not recognized any minority expense subsequent to such purchase. In 1997 and
1998  the  Company  recorded  $76,000  and  $317,000  of  amortization  expense,
respectively, in connection with the goodwill recorded on the acquisition of the
remaining portion of its Indian subsidiary.

      NET INCOME. Net income increased from $1.0 million in 1997 to $6.0 million
in 1998, representing 4.2% and 10.3% as a percentage of revenues, respectively.

BACKLOG

      The Company  generally enters into written contracts with its customers at
the time it commences work on a project. These written contracts contain varying
terms  and  conditions  and  the  Company  does  not  generally  believe  it  is
appropriate  to  characterize   such  written  contracts  as  creating  backlog.
Additionally, because these written contracts often provide that the arrangement
can be terminated with limited advance notice and without  penalty,  the Company
does not  believe  that  projects  in  progress  at any one time are a  reliable
indicator or measure of expected future revenue.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

      Historically,  through the date of the IPO, the Company's  primary sources
of funding had been cash flow from  operations and  intercompany  cash transfers
with its majority owner and controlling parent company IMS Health. In June 1998,
the Company  consummated its initial public offering of 2,917,000  shares of its
Class A Common Stock at a price to the public of





$10.00 per share, of which 2,500,000  shares were issued and sold by the Company
and 417,000  shares were sold, at that time, by Cognizant  Corporation.  The net
proceeds to the Company from the offering were approximately $22.4 million after
$845,000 of direct expenses.  The funds received by the Company from the initial
public offering were invested in short-term,  investment grade, interest bearing
securities,  after the  Company  used a  portion  of the net  proceeds  to repay
approximately  $6.6 million of  non-trade  related  party  balances to Cognizant
Corporation.  The Company  expects to use the remainder of the net proceeds from
the offering for (i)  expansion of existing  operations,  including its offshore
software  development centers;  (ii) continued  development of new service lines
and possible  acquisitions of related  businesses;  and (iii) general  corporate
purposes including working capital.

      Net cash provided by operating  activities was approximately $1.7 million,
$13.3 million and $18.6 million for the years ended December 31, 1997,  1998 and
1999,  respectively.  The increase for 1998  compared to 1997 results  primarily
from a  higher  level of  accrued  liabilities,  increased  net  income,  and an
increase in deferred taxes,  partially offset by increased other current assets.
The increase for 1999  compared to 1998 results  primarily  from  increased  net
income  and a  decrease  in  accounts  receivable  partially  offset  by a lower
increase  in accrued  liabilities  versus the prior  year.  Accounts  receivable
increased  from $7.4 million at December  31, 1997 to $11.1  million at December
31, 1998 and  decreased to $10.0  million at December 31, 1999.  The decrease in
accounts receivable during 1999 was due primarily to improved collection efforts
and earlier than expected year-end payments due to Year 2000 preparations by our
customers.  The Company monitors turnover,  aging and the collection of accounts
receivable  through  the use of  management  reports  which  are  prepared  on a
customer basis and evaluated by the Company's finance staff.

      The Company's  investing  activities  used net cash of $6.4 million,  $3.7
million and $5.9 million for the years ended  December 31, 1997,  1998 and 1999,
respectively.  The  decrease  in 1998 of net cash used in  investing  activities
compared to 1997 primarily  reflects the payment in 1997 for the  acquisition of
the minority interest of the Company's Indian  subsidiary.  The increase in 1999
of net cash used in investing  activities  compared to 1998  primarily  reflects
increased  purchases of equipment to expand the Company's  offshore  development
infrastructure.

      The  Company's  financing  activities  provided net cash of $5.7  million,
$16.1 million and $1.6 million for the years ended  December 31, 1997,  1998 and
1999,  respectively.  The increase in 1998 compared to 1997  resulted  primarily
from the net  proceeds  generated  from the  initial  public  offering  of $22.4
million,  offset  by the  repayment  of  non-trade  related  party  balances  of
approximately  $6.6  million.  The decrease in 1999  compared to 1998  similarly
resulted from the absence of the net IPO proceeds discussed above.

      As of December 31, 1999, the Company had no significant third-party debt.

      The Company had working  capital of $43.5  million at December  31, 1999
and $29.4 million at December 31, 1998.

      The Company  believes that its available funds and the cash flows expected
to be  generated  from  operations,  will be adequate to satisfy its current and
planned  operations  and needs for at least the next 12  months.  The  Company's
ability to expand and grow its business in





accordance with current plans, to make  acquisitions and form joint ventures and
to meet its long-term  capital  requirements  beyond this  12-month  period will
depend  on many  factors,  including  the rate,  if any,  at which its cash flow
increases,  its ability and  willingness  to accomplish  acquisitions  and joint
ventures  with capital stock and the  availability  to the Company of public and
private debt and equity financing. The Company cannot be certain that additional
financing, if required, will be available on terms favorable to it, if at all.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

      The  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Company's  Canadian  and  European
subsidiaries  are  translated  into U.S.  dollars at current  exchange rates and
revenues and expenses are  translated at average  monthly  exchange  rates.  The
resulting  translation  adjustments  are  recorded  in a separate  component  of
stockholders'  equity.  For the  Company's  Indian  subsidiary,  the  functional
currency is the U.S.  dollar  since its sales are made  primarily  in the United
States,  the sales price is predominantly in U.S.  dollars;  and there is a high
volume of  intercompany  transactions  denominated in U.S.  dollars  between the
Indian  subsidiary and the Company's U.S.  affiliates.  Non-monetary  assets and
liabilities are translated at historical  exchange rates,  while monetary assets
and  liabilities  are  translated at current  exchange  rates.  A portion of the
Company's  costs in India are  denominated  in local  currency  and  subject  to
exchange  fluctuations,  which has not had any material  effect on the Company's
results of operations.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

      The Company's most significant costs are the salaries and related benefits
for its programming staff and other professionals.  Competition in India and the
United States for  professionals  with advanced  technical  skills  necessary to
perform the  services  offered by the Company have caused wages to increase at a
rate  greater  than the  general  rate of  inflation.  As with  other IT service
providers,  the Company must adequately anticipate wage increases,  particularly
on its fixed-price contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company will be
able to recover cost increases  through  increases in the prices that it charges
for its services in the United States and elsewhere.

RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE YEAR 2000

      Historically, certain computer programs have been written using two digits
rather  than four to define  the  applicable  year,  which  could  result in the
computer  recognizing a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than 2000.  This
in turn,  could  result in major  system  failures  or  miscalculations,  and is
generally referred to as the "Year 2000 Problem". The Company did not experience
any significant  computer or systems problems relating to the Year 2000 Problem.
Upon review of the  Company's  internal and external  systems  during 1999,  the
Company  determined that it did not have any material  exposure to such computer
problems and that the software and systems  required to operate its business and
provide its services were Year 2000 compliant.  As a result, the Company did not
incur, and does not expect to incur, any material  expenditures relating to Year
2000 systems issues.




RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

      During 1999 , various new  accounting  pronouncements  were issued which
may  impact  the  Company's  financial   statements.   (See  Note  2.  to  the
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

      The  statements  contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not
historical facts are  forward-looking  statements (within the meaning of Section
21E of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that involve risks and
uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other
things,  the use of forward-looking  terminology such as "believes,"  "expects,"
"may,"  "will,"  "should"  or  "anticipates"  or the  negative  thereof or other
variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that
involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  From  time  to  time,  the  Company  or its
representatives have made or may make forward-looking  statements,  orally or in
writing. Such forward-looking statements may be included in various filings made
by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or press releases or
oral statements made by or with the approval of an authorized  executive officer
of the Company. These forward-looking  statements,  such as statements regarding
anticipated   future  revenues,   contract   percentage   completions,   capital
expenditures,  and other  statements  regarding  matters that are not historical
facts,  involve  predictions.  The  Company's  actual  results,  performance  or
achievements  could differ  materially from the results expressed in, or implied
by, these  forward-looking  statements.  Potential risks and uncertainties  that
could affect the Company's future operating results include, but are not limited
to:  (i) the  significant  fluctuations  of the  Company's  quarterly  operating
results  caused by a  variety  of  factors,  many of which  are not  within  the
Company's control, including (a) the number, timing, scope and contractual terms
of software development and maintenance projects,  (b) delays in the performance
of  projects,  (c) the accuracy of  estimates  of costs,  resources  and time to
complete  projects,  (d) seasonal patterns of the Company's services required by
customers,  (e) levels of market acceptance for the Company's services,  and (f)
the hiring of  additional  staff;  (ii)  changes in the  Company's  billing  and
employee  utilization  rates;  (iii) the Company's  ability to manage its growth
effectively,  which will  require the Company (a) to increase  the number of its
personnel,  particularly skilled technical,  marketing and management personnel,
and  (b)  to  continue  to  develop  and  improve  its  operational,  financial,
communications and other internal systems,  both in the United States and India;
(iv) the Company's limited operating  history with unaffiliated  customers;  (v)
the  Company's  reliance on key customers  and large  projects;  (vi) the highly
competitive  nature  of the  markets  for  the  Company's  services;  (vii)  the
Company's ability to successfully  address the continuing changes in information
technology,  evolving industry  standards and changing  customer  objectives and
preferences;  (viii) the Company's reliance on the continued services of its key
executive officers and leading technical  personnel;  (ix) the Company's ability
to attract and retain a  sufficient  number of highly  skilled  employees in the
future;  (x) the Company's ability to protect its intellectual  property rights;
(xi)  general  economic  conditions;  (xii)  year 2000  compliance  of  vendors'
products  and  related  issues,  including  impact of the year 2000  problem  on
customer buying  patterns;  and (xiii) the outcome of the impact of Year 2000 on
the Company. The Company's actual results may differ materially from the results
disclosed in such forward-looking statements.




ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

      The financial  statements required to be filed pursuant to this Item 8 are
appended to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A list of the financial  statements
filed and financial  statement schedule herewith is found at "Item 14. Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K."

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.





                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

      The information relating to the Company's directors, nominees for election
as directors and executive  officers under the headings  "Election of Directors"
and "Executive  Officers" in the Company's  definitive  proxy  statement for the
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated  herein by reference to such
proxy statement.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

      The discussion under the heading "Executive Compensation" in the Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  for the 2000  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  is
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

      The discussion under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management" in the Company's  definitive proxy statement for the 2000
Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

      The  discussion  under the  heading  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related
Transactions"  in the Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the 2000 Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to such proxy
statement.





                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND
            REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  (1)    Consolidated Financial Statements.

            Reference is made to the Index to Consolidated  Financial Statements
            on Page F-1.

(a)  (2)    Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule.

            Reference  is made to the Index to Financial  Statement  Schedule on
            Page F-1.

(a)   (3)   Exhibits.

            Reference is made to the Index to Exhibits on Page 34.

(b)         Reports on Form 8-K.

            No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended  December
            31, 1999.


      Schedules  other  than as listed  above are  omitted  as not  required  or
inapplicable or because the required information is provided in the consolidated
financial statements, including the notes thereto.





                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned,  thereunto duly authorized this 7th day of March,
2000.


                                          COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
                                          CORPORATION



                                          By:/s/Wijeyaraj Mahadeva
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Wijeyaraj Mahadeva, Chairman of the
                                               Board and Chief Executive Officer





      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

         SIGNATURE                       TITLE                        DATE
         ---------                       -----                        ----

/s/Wijeyaraj Mahadeva          Chairman of the Board and         March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Wijeyaraj Mahadeva           Chief Executive Officer
                               (Principal Executive
                               Officer)


/s/Gordon Coburn               Chief Financial Officer,          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Gordon Coburn                Treasurer and Secretary
                               (Principal Financial and
                               Accounting Officer)


/s/Anthony Bellomo             Director                          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Anthony Bellomo

/s/Robert W. Howe              Director                          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Robert W. Howe

                               Director                          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Victoria Fash

/s/John Klein                  Director                          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  John Klein

/s/Venetia Kontogouris         Director                          March 7, 2000
- ------------------------
  Venetia Kontogouris





                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


  Exhibit
    No.         Description of
                Exhibit
- ------------    --------------------

    3.1         Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. (Incorporated
                by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to the  Company's  Registration
                Statement  on Form S-1  (File  Number  333-49783)  which  became
                effective on June 18, 1998.)

    3.2         By-laws.  (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.2  to the
                Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1  (File  Number
                333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.1*        Form of  Indemnification  Agreement  for Directors and Officers.
                (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.1 to the  Company's
                Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File Number 333-49783) which
                became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.2*        Amended  and  Restated   Cognizant   Technology   Solutions  Key
                Employees'  Stock  Option  Plan.  (Incorporated  by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                (File  Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective  on June 18,
                1998.)

   10.3*        Amended and Restated Cognizant Technology Solutions Non-Employee
                Directors'  Stock  Option  Plan.  (Incorporated  by reference to
                Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                (File  Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective  on June 18,
                1998.)

   10.4*        Option  Agreement  between the Company and  Wijeyaraj  Mahadeva.
                (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.4 to the  Company's
                Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File Number 333-49783) which
                became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.5         Form of Master Services  Agreement  between the Company and each
                of I.M.S.  International,  Inc.,  IMS America,  Ltd. and Nielsen
                Media Research,  Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
                to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File Number
                333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.6         License Agreement between the Company and Cognizant Corporation.
                (Incorporated  by  reference  to Exhibit  10.6 to the  Company's
                Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File Number 333-49783) which
                became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.7         Intercompany   Agreement   between  the  Company  and  Cognizant
                Corporation.  (Incorporated  by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the
                Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1  (File  Number
                333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.8         Intercompany   Services   Agreement   between  the  Company  and
                Cognizant  Corporation.  (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit
                10.8 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (File
                Number 333-49783) which became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.9*        Form of  Severance  and  Non-Competition  Agreement  between the
                Company and each of its  Executive  Officers.  (Incorporated  by
                reference  to  Exhibit  10.9  to  the   Company's   Registration
                Statement  on Form S-1  (File  Number  333-49783)  which  became
                effective on June 18, 1998.)





    10.10       Sublease  dated  August  28,  1998  by  and  between  Trans  Tec
                Services,  Inc.,  as  Sublessor,  and the Company,  as Sublessee
                (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit  10.10 to the  Company's
                Annual  Report  on Form  10-K for the Year  ended  December  31,
                1998.)

    10.11*      1999 Incentive Compensation Plan.  (Incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarter ended June 30,1999.)

    10.12*      Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan.  (Incorporated  by reference to
                Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                the quarter ended June 30,1999.)

    21          List of subsidiaries of the Company.  (Incorporated by reference
                to Exhibit 21 to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
                S-1 (File Number  333-49783)  which became effective on June 18,
                1998.)

    23**        Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

    27**        Financial Data Schedule.


- ---------------
*     A management  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement  required to be
      filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**    Filed herewith.  All other exhibits previously filed.





                  COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                      AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULE

                                                                          Page
                                                                          ----
Consolidated Financial Statements:

   Report of Independent Accountants.......................................F-2

   Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of
     December 31, 1998 and 1999............................................F-3

   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
     years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999..........................F-4

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
     years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999..........................F-5

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
     years ended December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999..........................F-6

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................F-7

Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data........................................F-25

Financial Statement Schedule:
  Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...........................F-26



                                     F - 1


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation:

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements listed in the index
appearing  under  Item  14(a)(1)  on page 31  present  fairly,  in all  material
respects,  the financial position of Cognizant Technology Solutions  Corporation
at December  31, 1999 and 1998,  and the results of their  operations  and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in
conformity with accounting  principles  generally accepted in the United States.
In addition,  in our opinion,  the financial  statement  schedule  listed in the
index appearing under Item 14(a)(2) on page 31 presents fairly,  in all material
respects,  the information  set forth therein when read in conjunction  with the
related  consolidated  financial  statements.  These  financial  statements  and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management;
our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements and
financial  statement  schedule  based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United  States,  which  require  that we plan and  perform  the  audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,   assessing  the
accounting  principles  used and significant  estimates made by management,  and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP
New York, New York
February 7, 2000
(Except for Note 14 as to which the date is February 11, 2000)

                                     F - 2


                      COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                          (in thousands, except par values)



                                     F - 3


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)



                                     F - 4


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (in thousands)


                                     F - 5


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)



                                     F - 6


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


1.  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

      The   Company   is   principally   engaged  in   providing   high-quality,
cost-effective,  full life cycle solutions to complex  software  development and
maintenance  requirements  that companies face as they transition to e-business.
The  Company has  operations  and  subsidiaries  in India,  the United  Kingdom,
Germany,  Canada and the United States. These services are delivered through the
use of a seamless on-site and offshore  consulting project team. These solutions
include   application   development   and  integration   services,   application
management, re-engineering and mass change implementation.

      The Company is a Delaware  corporation  originally  organized in 1988. The
Company began its software  development  and  maintenance  services  business in
early  1994,  as  an  in-house  technology  development  center  for  The  Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation and its operating  units. In 1996, the Company,  Erisco,
Inc.  ("Erisco"),  IMS International Inc. ("IMS  International"),  Nielsen Media
Research,  Inc.,  Pilot Software Inc. and Sales  Technologies,  Inc. and certain
other entities,  plus a majority  interest in Gartner Group,  Inc. were spun-off
from  The  Dun  &  Bradstreet   Corporation   to  form   Cognizant   Corporation
("Cognizant"). In 1997, the Company purchased the 24.0% minority interest in its
Indian  subsidiary  from a third  party  for $3.4  million,  making  the  Indian
subsidiary wholly owned by the Company.  In June 1998, the Company completed its
IPO.  On June  30,  1998,  a  majority  interest  in the  Company,  Erisco,  IMS
International  and certain other  entities were spun-off from  Cognizant to form
IMS Health Incorporated ("IMS Health"), the "accounting successor" to Cognizant,
the Company's majority owner and controlling parent company.

      IMS Health  currently  provides the Company  with  certain  administrative
services,  including payroll and payables  processing,  e-mail, tax planning and
compliance,  and permitted the Company to participate in IMS Health's  insurance
and employee  benefit  plans.  Costs for these services for all periods prior to
the IPO were allocated to the Company based on  utilization of certain  specific
services.  All  subsequent  services  were  performed  under the CTS IMS  Health
intercompany  services  agreement.  (See  also  Note  10.  to  the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.)

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION.  The consolidated  financial statements reflect the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
Company and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  as if it were a separate entity for
all periods presented.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.  Cash and cash equivalents primarily include time and
demand deposits in the Company's operating bank accounts.  The Company considers
all highly liquid  instruments  with an initial maturity of three months or less
to be cash equivalents.

PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT.  Property  and  equipment  are stated at cost,  net of
accumulated depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis
over the  estimated  useful  lives of



                                       F - 7


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


the assets.  Leasehold  improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over
the  shorter  of the  term of the  lease  or the  estimated  useful  life of the
improvement.  Maintenance  and repairs are expensed as incurred,  while renewals
and betterments are capitalized.

GOODWILL.  Goodwill  represents  the excess of the purchase  price of the former
minority  interest in the Company's  Indian  subsidiary  over the fair values of
amounts assigned to the incremental net assets acquired. Amortization expense is
recorded  using  the  straight-line   method  over  a  period  of  seven  years.
Amortization  expense was $317 for each of the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998. Accumulated  amortization was $711 and $393 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. In accordance with SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived  Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be  Disposed  Of," the Company
reviews for impairment of long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of
an asset may not be  recoverable.  In general,  the Company  will  recognize  an
impairment loss when the sum of undiscounted  expected future cash flows is less
than the carrying amount of such assets.  The measurement for such an impairment
loss is then based on the fair value of the asset.

REVENUE  RECOGNITION.  The  Company's  services  are  entered  into on  either a
time-and-materials  or fixed-price basis.  Revenues related to time-and-material
contracts  are  recognized  as the  service is  performed.  Revenues  related to
fixed-price  contracts  are  recognized  as the service is  performed  using the
percentage-of-completion  method of  accounting,  under which the sales value of
performance, including estimated earnings thereon, is recognized on the basis of
the percentage  that each  contract's  cost to date bears to the total estimated
cost.  Fixed price  contracts  are  cancellable  subject to a  specified  notice
period.  All services  provided by the Company  through the date of cancellation
are due and  payable  under the  contract  terms.  The Company  issues  invoices
related to fixed price contracts based upon  achievement of milestones  during a
project.  Estimates are subject to adjustment as a project progresses to reflect
changes in expected  completion  costs. The cumulative impact of any revision in
estimates is reflected in the financial  reporting period in which the change in
estimate  becomes known and any  anticipated  losses on contracts are recognized
immediately.  A reserve for  warranty  provisions  under such  contracts,  which
generally  exist for ninety days past  contract  completion,  is  estimated  and
accrued during the contract period.

UNBILLED ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE. Unbilled accounts receivable represent revenues on
contracts  to be  billed,  in  subsequent  periods,  as  per  the  terms  of the
contracts.

FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION.  The assets  and  liabilities  of the  Company's
Canadian and European  subsidiaries  are translated into U.S. dollars from local
currencies at current  exchange  rates and revenues and expenses are  translated
from  local   currencies  at  average  monthly  exchange  rates.  The  resulting
translation  adjustments are recorded in a separate  component of  stockholders'
equity.  For the Company's  Indian  subsidiary  ("CTS  India"),  the  functional
currency is the U.S.  dollar,  since its sales are made  primarily in the United
States,  the sales price is  predominantly  in U.S.  dollars and there is a high
volume of  intercompany  transactions  denominated in U.S.  dollars  between CTS
India  and  its  U.S.  affiliates.   Non-monetary  assets  and  liabilities  are
translated at


                                     F - 8


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


historical  exchange rates, while monetary assets and liabilities are translated
at current  exchange  rates.  The  resulting  gain  (loss) is  included in other
income.  Risks and  Uncertainties.  The  preparation of financial  statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles requires management to
make estimates and  assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities as of the date
of the financial  statements,  and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during  the  reported  period.  The most  significant  estimates  relate  to the
allowance for doubtful accounts,  reserve for warranties,  depreciation of fixed
assets and long-lived assets and the recognition of revenue and profits based on
the  percentage of  completion  method of  accounting  for fixed bid  contracts.
Actual  results  could  vary  from the  estimates  and  assumptions  used in the
preparation of the accompanying financial statements.

      All of the Company's software development centers, including a substantial
majority of its employees  and assets,  are located in India.  As a result,  the
Company  may  be  subject  to  certain  risks   associated  with   international
operations,  including  risks  associated  with foreign  currency  exchange rate
fluctuations  and  risks  associated  with the  application  and  imposition  of
protective  legislation  and  regulations  relating  to  import  and  export  or
otherwise  resulting from foreign policy or the variability of foreign  economic
conditions.  To date,  the Company has not  engaged in any  significant  hedging
transactions  to mitigate  its risks  relating to  exchange  rate  fluctuations.
Additional risks associated with international  operations include  difficulties
in enforcing  intellectual property rights, the burdens of complying with a wide
variety of foreign laws, potentially adverse tax consequences,  tariffs,  quotas
and other barriers.

NET INCOME PER SHARE.  In 1997,  the  Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," which replaces the
presentation  of primary net income  (loss) per share  ("EPS") and fully diluted
EPS with a presentation  of basic EPS and diluted EPS,  respectively.  Basic EPS
excludes  dilution  and is  computed by dividing  earnings  available  to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the
period.  Similar  to fully  diluted  EPS,  diluted  EPS  includes  all  dilutive
potential common stock in the weighted average shares outstanding. (See Note 14.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements)

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK. Financial instruments that potentially subject the
Company to significant  concentrations  of credit risk consist primarily of cash
and cash equivalents and trade accounts  receivable.  The Company  maintains its
cash and cash equivalents with high credit quality financial institutions.

INCOME TAXES.  Prior to the  consummation  of the Company's IPO, the Company had
been  included in the federal and certain  state income tax returns of Cognizant
and The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation.  The  provision  for income taxes in the
Company's  consolidated  financial  statements has been calculated on a separate
company  basis.  Income tax  benefits  realized by the  Company and  utilized by
Cognizant or The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation  are  included in  stockholders'
equity.  The  Company is no longer  included in the  consolidated  return of its
majority owner and controlling parent company,  and is required to file separate
income tax returns.



                                     F - 9


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


      On a stand-alone  basis,  the Company  provides for income taxes utilizing
the asset and  liability  method of  accounting  for  income  taxes.  Under this
method,  deferred  income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax  consequences in
future years of differences  between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
their financial reporting amounts at each year end based on enacted tax laws and
statutory  tax rates  applicable  to the  periods in which the  differences  are
expected to affect taxable  income.  If it is determined  that it is more likely
than not that future tax benefits  associated with a deferred tax asset will not
be realized, a valuation allowance will be provided.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in the tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date.

      CTS India is an export  oriented  company  that is entitled to claim a tax
holiday for a period of nine years from April 1995 through March 2004 in respect
to its export  profits.  Under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961,  substantially
all of the earnings of the Company's Indian subsidiary are currently exempt from
Indian Income Tax as profits are  attributable  to export  operations.  However,
since management  currently intends to repatriate all accumulated  earnings from
India to the United States,  the Company has provided deferred U.S. income taxes
on all undistributed earnings.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION.  With respect to stock options  granted to employees,
SFAS No. 123  "Accounting  for Stock-Based  Compensation"  permits  companies to
continue using the accounting  method  promulgated by the Accounting  Principles
Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"),  "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," to
measure  compensation or to adopt the fair value based method prescribed by SFAS
No. 123.  Management has  determined not to adopt the SFAS No. 123's  accounting
recognition provisions, but has included the required pro forma disclosures.

RECLASSIFICATIONS.  Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the 1998 presentation.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS.

      In July 1999,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 137,  "Accounting  for  Derivative
Instruments and Hedging  Activities - Deferral of the Effective Date of the FASB
Statement No. 133, an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133".  SFAS No. 137 defers
the effective date of FASB No. 133, which  establishes  accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments embedded in other contracts,  (collectively
referred to as derivatives)  and for hedging  activities.  FASB No. 133 requires
that an entity  recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
statement of financial  position and measure those instruments at fair value. If
certain conditions are met, a derivative may be specifically designated as (a) a
hedge of the  exposure  to changes in the fair  value of a  recognized  asset or
liability or an  unrecognized  firm  commitment,  (b) a hedge of the exposure to
variability in cash flows  attributable to a particular  risk, or (c) a hedge of
the foreign  currency  exposure of a net investment in a foreign  operation,  an
unrecognized  firm  commitment,  an available for sale security and a forecasted
transaction.  As a result of FASB No.  137,  the  Company  will be  required  to
implement SFAS No. 133 for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years



                                     F - 10


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


beginning  after June 15, 2000. The Company does not expect the adoption of this
pronouncement to have a material effect on the Company's  results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

3.  INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

      On June 24, 1998,  the Company  consummated  its Initial  Public  Offering
("IPO") of 2,917,000  shares of its Common Stock at a price of $10.00 per share,
2,500,000 of which were issued and sold by the Company and 417,000 of which were
sold by Cognizant Corporation  ("Cognizant"),  the Company's then majority owner
and  controlling  parent  company.  The net proceeds to the Company from the IPO
were  approximately  $22.4 million after $845 of direct expenses.  In July 1998,
IMS Health (the accounting  successor to Cognizant) sold 437,550 shares of Class
B Common Stock, which were converted to Class A Common Stock pursuant to an over
allotment  option  granted  to the  underwriters  of the IPO.  Of the  total net
proceeds received by the Company upon the consummation of its IPO, approximately
$6.6 million was used to repay the related party balance then owed to Cognizant.
The related  party balance  resulted  from certain  advances to the Company from
Cognizant  used to  purchase  the  minority  interest  of the  Company's  Indian
subsidiary and to fund payroll and accounts  payable.  Concurrent  with the IPO,
the Company  reclassified the amounts in mandatorily  redeemable common stock to
stockholders'  equity as the redemption feature was voided.  (See Note 8. to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

4.  SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

      Property and equipment consist of the following:

                                ESTIMATED
                               USEFUL LIFE        DECEMBER 31
                                                  -----------
                                 (YEARS)       1999         1998
                                 -------       ----         ----
Computer equipment and
  purchased software..........      3          $ 8,397      $ 5,542
Furniture and equipment.......    5 - 9          4,760        3,044
Leasehold improvements........   Various         3,134        1,805
                                            -----------  -----------
  Sub-total                                    $16,291      $10,391
Accumulated depreciation and
  amortization................                  (6,817)      (4,121)
                                            -----------  -----------
Property and Equipment - Net..                 $ 9,474      $ 6,270
                                            ===========  ===========




                                     F - 11


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES

      Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:

                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                                       ------------
                                                     1999         1998
                                                     ----         ----

     Accrued bonuses and commissions............     $5,143      $6,600
     Accrued vacation...........................      1,217         800
     Accrued travel and entertainment...........        948         707
     Deferred revenue...........................        677         604
     Other......................................      3,784       2,496
                                                    -------     -------
                                                    $11,769     $11,207
                                                    =======     =======


5.  ACQUISITION OF MINORITY INTEREST

    On July 3,  1997,  the  Company  signed a  memorandum  of  understanding  to
purchase the 24.0% minority interest in CTS India from a third party. On October
31, 1997,  the Company paid $3,468 to the minority  shareholder  increasing  the
Company's ownership in CTS India from 76.0% to 100.0%. The Company accounted for
the  acquisition  of the  minority  interest  using  the  purchase  method.  The
incremental  assets  acquired have been recorded at their fair value at the date
of  acquisition.  The  excess  of  purchase  price  over the  fair  value of the
incremental  net assets  acquired  has been  recorded as  goodwill  and is being
amortized on a straight-line  basis over a seven year period. The following is a
summary of the purchase  price  allocation  for the  acquisition of the minority
interest:

   Fair value of assets..............................................  $1,727
   Deferred taxes....................................................    (482)
   Goodwill..........................................................   2,223
                                                                       ------
   Total purchase price..............................................  $3,468
                                                                       ======

      The results of operations of CTS India have been included in the Company's
operations  since the  acquisition  date.  Had the  acquisition  of the minority
interest  taken place on January 1, 1997,  the results of  operations  would not
have reflected  minority  interest expense in each year and would have reflected
amortization of the related goodwill of $317 for 1997.

6.  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

      Beginning in 1997,  certain U.S. employees of the Company were eligible to
participate in Cognizant's and now IMS Health's 401(k) plan. The Company matches
up to 50.0% of the  eligible  employee's  contribution.  The  amount  charged to
expense  for the  matching  contribution  was $49  and  $55 for the  year  ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



                                     F - 12


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


      Certain of the Company's  employees  participate in IMS Health's defined
benefit  pension plan. The costs to the Company  recognized as  postretirement
benefit  costs and related  liabilities  were not  material  to the  Company's
results of  operations  or financial  position for the years  presented.  (See
Note 10. to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

      CTS India maintains an employee benefit plan that covers substantially all
India-based employees. The employees' provident fund, pension and family pension
plans are statutory defined  contribution  retirement  benefit plans.  Under the
plans,  employees  contribute up to twelve  percent of their base  compensation,
which is matched by an equal  contribution  by CTS India.  Contribution  expense
recognized was $338,  $186 and $128 for the years ended December 31, 1999,  1998
and 1997 respectively.

      CTS India also  maintains  a statutory  gratuity  plan that is a statutory
postemployment benefit plan providing defined lump sum benefits. CTS India makes
annual   contributions  to  an  employees'  gratuity  fund  established  with  a
government-owned  insurance  corporation  to  fund a  portion  of the  estimated
obligation.  The Company estimates its obligation based upon employee salary and
projected  turnover rates.  Expense recognized by the Company was $358, $135 and
$94 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

7.  Income Taxes

      Income (loss) before provision for income taxes consisted of the following
for years ended December 31:

                                             1999        1998         1997
                                           -------     -------      -------

U.S.....................................   $ 7,553     $(2,862)     $(1,812)
Non-U.S.................................    10,392      12,501        3,966
Total...................................   $17,945     $ 9,639      $ 2,154
                                           =======     =======      =======

      The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following for the
years ended December 31,

                                             1999        1998         1997
                                           -------     -------      -------
U.S. Federal and state:
   Current..............................   $ 3,079     $    75     $  (607)
   Deferred.............................     3,354       3,516       1,178
                                           -------     -------     -------
Total U.S. Federal and state............   $ 6,433     $ 3,591     $   571
                                           -------     -------     -------
Non-U.S.:
   Current..............................   $   315     $    20     $    18
   Deferred.............................       (37)         (5)         (8)
                                           -------     -------     -------
   Total non-U.S........................       278          15          10
                                           -------     -------     -------
   Total................................  $  6,711     $ 3,606     $   581
                                          ========     =======     =======



                                     F - 13


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


      The following  table sets forth the  significant  differences  between the
U.S.  federal  statutory taxes and the Company's  provision for income taxes for
consolidated financial statement purposes:


     The  Company's  deferred  tax assets  (liabilities)  are  comprised  of the
following at December 31:

                                                           1999       1998
                                                           ----       ----

 Deferred tax assets:
   Net Operating Losses................................ $     37    $   940

 Net deferred tax assets............................... $     37    $   940

 Deferred tax liabilities:
   Undistributed Indian income.........................  (10,398)    (7,043)

 Total deferred tax liabilities........................  (10,398)    (7,043)
                                                        ---------   --------
 Net deferred tax liability............................ $(10,361)   $(6,103)
                                                        =========   ========

At December 31, 1999, the Company had $37 of tax credit carry  forwards  related
to Germany net operating losses, which do not expire.

      CTS India is an export  oriented  company  that is entitled to claim a tax
holiday for a period of nine years from April 1995 through March 2004 in respect
to its export  profits.  Under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961,  substantially
all of the earnings of the Company's Indian subsidiary are currently exempt from
Indian Income Tax as profits are  attributable  to export  operations.  However,
since  management  intends to  repatriate  all earnings from India to the United
States, the Company has provided deferred U.S. income taxes on all undistributed
earnings.  The  Company has  determined  that the income  taxes  recorded by the
Company  would not be  materially  different  in the  absence of the current tax
exemption and,  therefore,  the tax exemption had no material effect on earnings
per share.

8. CAPITAL STOCK

 A. COMMON  STOCK.  On June 12,  1998,  the Company  amended  and  restated  its
certificate of incorporation to authorize  100,000,000  shares of Class A common
stock, par value $.01 per share,  15,000,000 shares of Class B common stock, par
value $.01 per share, and 15,000,000 shares of



                                     F - 14


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


preferred  stock,  par value $.10 per share, and effected a 0.65 for one reverse
stock split.  All  applicable  shares and per share amounts in the  accompanying
financial   statements  have  been   retroactively   adjusted  to  reflect  this
recapitalization.  Holders  of Class A common  stock have one vote per share and
holders of Class B common  stock  have ten votes per  share.  Holders of Class B
common stock are  entitled to convert  their shares into Class A common stock at
any time on a share for share basis.  Shares of Class B Common Stock transferred
to  stockholders  of IMS Health in a  transaction  intended  to be on a tax-free
basis (a  "Tax-Free  Spin-Off")  under the Code  shall not  convert to shares of
Class A Common Stock upon the occurrence of such Tax-Free Spin-Off. No preferred
stock has been issued. (See Note 14. to the Consolidated Financial Statements)

      Subsequent to the IPO, the underwriters  exercised their right to purchase
an additional  437,550 shares of Class A Common Stock. As a result,  IMS Health,
the majority  owner and  controlling  parent of the Company,  converted  437,550
shares of Class B Common stock into Class A Common Stock and  subsequently  sold
such shares.

 B. REDEEMABLE COMMON STOCK. On July 25, 1997, certain  management  employees of
the Company and its affiliates  subscribed  and  subsequently  purchased  Common
Stock under the "Key Employees  Restricted  Stock  Purchase  Plan." These shares
were purchased by the employees at the then estimated fair market value of $3.85
per  share.  Holders of the stock may put,  at any time,  to the  Company  their
shares  at the  lower  of the  purchase  price  or the  share  price  based on a
valuation of the Company at the time of the put. Upon  consummation  of the IPO,
this put right  terminated.  The  Company  initially  recorded  the value of the
purchased stock outside the equity section.  In 1998, upon the completion of the
initial public offering,  all redemption conditions were removed, and the shares
have been reclassified to common stock.

9.  EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS PLANS

       In July 1997,  CTS  adopted a Key  Employees  Stock  Option  Plan,  which
provides  for the grant of up to 698,750  stock  options to eligible  employees.
Options  granted  under this plan may not be granted at an  exercise  price less
than fair  market  value of the  underlying  shares  on the date of grant.  As a
result of the IPO all options have a life of ten years, vest proportionally over
four years and have an  exercise  price  equal to the fair  market  value of the
common stock on the grant date.

      In December 1997, CTS adopted a Non-Employee Directors' Stock Option Plan,
which  provides  for  the  grant  of up to  71,500  stock  options  to  eligible
directors.  Options  granted  under this plan may not be granted at an  exercise
price less than fair market value of the underlying shares on the date of grant.
As a result of the IPO all options have a life of ten years, vest proportionally
over two years and have an exercise  price equal to the fair market value of the
common stock on the grant date.

      In March 1998,  CTS  granted  non-qualified  stock  options to purchase an
aggregate of 48,750 shares to CTS's Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer at an
exercise price of $6.92 per share,  an amount less than the fair market value of
the shares on the date of the grant.



                                     F - 15


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


      In May 1999,  CTS  adopted the 1999  Incentive  Compensation  Plan,  which
provides for the grant of up to 1,000,000  stock options to eligible  employees,
nonemployee  Directors and independent  contractors.  Options granted under this
plan may not be granted at an exercise  price less than fair market value of the
underlying  shares on the date of grant.  All options  have a life of ten years,
vest  proportionally over four years,  unless specified  otherwise,  and have an
exercise  price equal to the fair market  value of the common stock on the grant
date.





                                     F - 16


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


      A summary of the Company's stock option activity,  and related information
is as follows:


      The following  summarizes  information  about the Company's  stock options
outstanding  and  exercisable  by price  range at  December  31,  1999 and 1998,
respectively:



     Compensation  cost recognized by the Company under APB 25 was $172 and $122
     for 1999 and 1998, respectively. No compensation cost was recognized by the
     Company under APB 25 for 1997.



                                     F - 17


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


     Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-based  compensation plans, as
well as the IMS Health options held by certain executive  officers (See Note 10.
to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements),  been determined based on the fair
value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those  plans,  consistent  with the
method  prescribed  by SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and net income per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                                       ------------
                                                 1999        1998       1997
                                                 ----        ----       ----
 Net income
   As reported...............................  $11,234      $6,033     $1,028
   Pro forma.................................  $10,047      $5,747       $778
 As reported
   Net income per share, basic...............    $1.22       $0.76      $0.16
   Net income per share, diluted.............    $1.16       $0.73      $0.16
 Pro forma
   Net income per share, basic...............    $1.10       $0.72      $0.12
   Net income per share, diluted.............    $1.04       $0.69      $0.12

      The pro  forma  disclosures  shown  above  are not  representative  of the
effects on net income and earnings per share in future years.

      For purposes of pro forma disclosures only, the fair value for all Company
options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes  option model
with the following weighted average assumptions in 1999; risk-free interest rate
of 5.6 %,  expected  dividend  yield of 0.0%,  expected  volatility of 75.0% and
expected life of 3.9 years. 1998 assumptions;  risk-free interest rate of 5.4 %,
expected dividend yield of 0.0%,  expected volatility of 48.0% and expected life
of 3.6  years.  1997  assumptions:  risk-free  interest  rate of 6.3%,  expected
dividend  yield of 0.0%,  expected  volatility of 40.0% and expected life of 8.7
years. The  weighted-average  fair value of the Company's options granted during
1999 was  $14.89.  The  weighted-average  fair  value of the  Company's  options
granted during 1998 was $4.68. The weighted-average  fair value of the Company's
options  granted  during 1997 was $2.38.  The  assumptions  used in 1999 for IMS
Health stock options were:  risk-free  interest rate of 4.8%,  expected dividend
yield of 0.3%,  expected volatility of 35.0% and expected life of 3.0 years. The
assumptions used in 1998 for IMS Health stock options were:  risk-free  interest
rate of 5.5%,  expected dividend yield of 0.3%, expected volatility of 25.0% and
expected life of 3.0 years.  The  assumptions  used in 1997 for Cognizant  stock
options were:  risk-free interest rate of 5.9%, expected dividend yield of 0.3%,
expected  volatility  of 25.0% and  expected  life of 4.5  years.  The  weighted
average  fair value of IMS Health  stock  options  granted to certain  executive
officers in 1998 was $7.14.  The weighted  average fair value of Cognizant stock
options granted to certain executive officers in 1997 was $9.76.

10.  OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

BACKGROUND.  The Company began its software development and maintenance services
business in early 1994 as an in-house technology  development center for The Dun
&  Bradstreet  Corporation  and  its  operating  units.  These  operating  units
principally included A.C.Nielsen, Dun


                                     F - 18


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


& Bradstreet  Information  Services,  Dun & Bradstreet  Software,  Erisco,  Inc.
("Erisco"),  IMS  International,  Inc. ("IMS  International"),  NCH  Promotional
Services,  Inc.  ("NCH  Promotional  Services"),  Nielsen Media  Research,  Inc.
("Nielsen Media Research"), The Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation ("RHDonnelley"),
Pilot Software,  Inc. ("Pilot  Software") and Sales  Technologies,  Inc. ("Sales
Technologies"),  and a  majority  interest  in  Gartner  Group,  Inc.  ("Gartner
Group"). In November 1996, the Company, Erisco, IMS International, Nielsen Media
Research,  Pilot Software, Sales Technologies and certain other entities, plus a
majority  interest in Gartner  Group,  were  spun-off  from The Dun & Bradstreet
Corporation to form Cognizant, the then majority owner and controlling parent of
the Company.  At that time,  ACNielsen  was  separately  spun-off from The Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation and Dun & Bradstreet Software was sold to GEAC Software.
In 1997, Cognizant sold Pilot Software to a third party.

      On January 15, 1998, Cognizant announced that it would, subject to certain
conditions,  reorganize itself (the  "Reorganization"),  by spinning the Nielsen
Media Research  business from the rest of its businesses,  creating two publicly
traded  companies,  IMS Health  Corporation  ("IMS  Health")  and Nielsen  Media
Research. The reorganization became effective on July 1, 1998. The shares of the
Company previously held by Cognizant are now held by IMS Health and all services
previously  provided to the Company by Cognizant  are now being  provided by IMS
Health.

      In July  1998,  IMS Health  sold  437,550  shares of Class B Common  Stock
pursuant to an over allotment  option granted to the underwriters of the IPO. As
of December 31, 1999,  IMS Health owned a majority and  controlling  interest in
the outstanding  Common Stock of the Company and held  approximately  94% of the
combined  voting power of the Company's  Common Stock.  (See also Note 3. to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

      IMS Health  currently  provides the Company  with  certain  administrative
services  including payroll and payables  processing,  e-mail,  tax planning and
compliance, and permits the Company to participate in IMS Health's insurance and
employee  benefit  plans.  Costs for these services for all periods prior to the
IPO were  allocated  to the Company  based on  utilization  of certain  specific
services.  All  subsequent  services  were  performed  under the CTS IMS  Health
intercompany services agreement.

AFFILIATED AGREEMENTS. In 1997, the Company entered into various agreements with
Cognizant  which were assigned to IMS Health as part of the 1998  spin-off.  The
agreements  include an Intercompany  Services Agreement for services provided by
IMS Health such as payroll and  payables  processing,  tax,  finance,  personnel
administration, real estate and risk management services, a License Agreement to
use the "Cognizant" trade name and an Intercompany  Agreement.  On July 1, 1998,
IMS Health  transferred  all of its rights to the  "Cognizant"  name and related
trade and service marks to the Company.

REVENUES.  In 1997,  the Company  recognized  related  party  revenues  totaling
$10,846  including  revenues  from  Erisco,  IMS  International,  Nielsen  Media
Research, Strategic Technologies,  Pilot Software and Gartner Group for the full
year. In 1998, the Company  recognized  related party revenues  totaling $13,575
including  revenues from IMS Health,  Nielsen Media  Research  (through


                                     F - 19


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


June 30, 1998),  Strategic  Technologies and Gartner Group. In 1999, the Company
recognized  related party revenues totaling $14,820 including  revenues from IMS
Health and Strategic Technologies.

SERVICES.  The Company,  IMS Health and Nielsen Media Research have entered into
Master Services Agreements pursuant to which the Company provides IT services to
such subsidiaries.  IMS Health,  Cognizant and The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation
provided the Company with certain administrative  services,  including financial
planning and  administration,  legal, tax planning and compliance,  treasury and
communications,   and  permitted  the  Company  to  participate  in  Cognizant's
insurance and employee  benefit plans.  Costs for these services for all periods
prior to the IPO were  allocated to the Company based on  utilization of certain
specific  services.  All subsequent  services were  performed  under the CTS IMS
Health  intercompany   services   agreement.   Management  believes  that  these
allocations are reasonable.  Total costs charged to the Company by IMS Health in
connection with these services were $350,  $1,666,  and $835 for the years ended
December  31,  1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  The  decrease in such costs
during 1999 was a result of the  majority of the  Company's  employees no longer
participating in IMS Health's employee benefits plan effective January 1, 1999.

      The Company  financed the  acquisition  of the  minority  interest and its
operations through intercompany balances with Cognizant,  which were repaid with
proceeds from the IPO. No interest was charged on these transactions.

Such transactions in 1999, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:

                                          1999       1998        1997
                                          ----       ----        ----


Loans and advances (repayments), net...   $(24)    $(6,637)     $2,251
Purchase of minority interest..........     --          --       3,418
                                         ------    -------      ------
Proceeds (to) from related party.......   $(24)    $(6,637)     $5,669
                                         ======    =======      ======

LEASES.  Beginning  January 1, 1997 and ended  December  31,  1998,  the Company
leased  office  space from a subsidiary  of IMS Health.  The Company made annual
lease payments to the subsidiary of $107 and $99 in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

PENSION PLANS. Certain U.S. employees of the Company participate in IMS Health's
defined  benefit  pension plans.  The plans are cash balance pension plans under
which six percent of  creditable  compensation  plus interest is credited to the
employee's retirement account on a monthly basis. The cash balance earns monthly
investment  credits  based on the 30-year  Treasury  bond yield.  At the time of
retirement,  the vested employee's account balance is actuarially converted into
an annuity.  The Company's cost for these plans is included in the allocation of
expense from IMS Health for employee benefits plans.



                                     F - 20


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


STOCK OPTIONS.  In November 1996, in consideration  for services to the Company,
Cognizant  Corporation  granted an executive officer and director of the Company
options to purchase an aggregate of 114,900 (on a pre-split basis) shares of the
common stock of Cognizant  Corporation at an exercise price of $33.38 per share.
Such executive officer and director agreed to forfeit options to purchase 58,334
shares (on a pre-split  basis) of  Cognizant  Corporation  common stock upon the
consummation of the Company's initial public offering.  In July 1998, IMS Health
granted an  executive  officer  options to purchase an aggregate of 8,158 shares
(on a pre-split basis) of the common stock of IMS Health at an exercise price of
$30.17 per share.  All  remaining  such options have since been  converted  into
options  to  purchase  the  common  stock  of  IMS  Health  as a  result  of the
Reorganization  that  occurred  on July 1, 1998,  the  two-for-one  split of IMS
Health stock that occurred on January 15, 1999 and the  distribution  of Gartner
Group  shares  that  occurred on July 26,  1999.  At December  31,  1999,  after
adjusting for the  Reorganization,  the split of IMSH stock and the distribution
of Gartner  Group  shares,  such officer had 168,113  options  outstanding  at a
weighted  average  exercise  price of $16.36 per share.  At December  31,  1999,
114,569 options were exercisable.

In November 1996, Cognizant  Corporation granted an executive officer options to
purchase an  aggregate  of 60,000  shares (on a  pre-split  basis) of the common
stock of  Cognizant  Corporation  at an exercise  price of $33.38 per share.  In
addition,  in November  1996,  such  executive  officer  was granted  options to
purchase an  aggregate  of 20,000  shares (on a  pre-split  basis) of the common
stock of Cognizant  Corporation at an exercise price of $33.38 per share,  which
was equal to the fair market  value at the grant date,  by paying ten percent of
the option  exercise  price as an advance  payment  toward  such  exercise.  The
unvested portion of such advance payment is refundable under certain conditions.
The  remaining  90  percent is payable  at  exercise.  In July 1998,  IMS Health
granted an  executive  officer  options to purchase an aggregate of 9,106 shares
(on a pre-split basis) of the common stock of IMS Health at an exercise price of
$30.17 per share.  All  remaining  such options have since been  converted  into
options  to  purchase  the  common  stock  of  IMS  Health  as a  result  of the
Reorganization,  the two-for-one split of IMS Health stock, and the distribution
of Gartner Group shares  discussed  above. At December 31, 1999, after adjusting
for the Reorganization,  the split of IMSH stock and the distribution of Gartner
Group shares, such officer had 124,285 options outstanding at a weighted average
exercise  price of $16.71 per share.  At December 31, 1999,  32,925 options were
exercisable.

11.  COMMITMENTS

     The Company  leases  office  space under  operating  leases which expire at
various dates through the year 2007.  Certain leases contain renewal  provisions
and generally require the Company to pay utilities,  insurance, taxes, and other
operating  expenses.  Future minimum rental payments under operating leases that
have initial or  remaining  lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31,
1999 are as follows:



                                     F - 21


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)



  2000............................................................    $1,803
  2001............................................................     1,689
  2002............................................................     1,226
  2003............................................................     1,041
  2004............................................................       515
  Thereafter......................................................        85
                                                                      ------
  Total minimum lease payments....................................    $6,359
                                                                      ======

      Rental expense  totaled  $1,823,  $1,260 and $509 for years ended December
31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

12.  CONTINGENCIES

      The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions arising in the
ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management,  the outcome of such
claims  and legal  actions,  if decided  adversely,  is not  expected  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition and
results of operations.  Additionally,  many of the Company's engagements involve
projects  that are critical to the  operations  of its  customers'  business and
provide  benefits  that are  difficult to quantify.  Any failure in a customer's
computer  system could  result in a claim for  substantial  damages  against the
Company,  regardless of the Company's responsibility for such failure.  Although
the Company  attempts to  contractually  limit its liability for damages arising
from negligent acts,  errors,  mistakes,  or omissions in rendering its software
development  and  maintenance  services,  there  can be no  assurance  that  the
limitations  of liability set forth in its contracts  will be enforceable in all
instances  or will  otherwise  protect the Company from  liability  for damages.
Although  the  Company  has  general  liability  insurance  coverage,  including
coverage for errors or omissions,  there can be no assurance  that such coverage
will  continue to be  available  on  reasonable  terms or will be  available  in
sufficient  amounts to cover one or more large claims,  or that the insurer will
not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or
more large claims against the Company that exceed available  insurance  coverage
or changes in the Company's insurance  policies,  including premium increases or
the imposition of large  deductible or co-insurance  requirements,  would have a
material  adverse  effect on the Company's  business,  results of operations and
financial condition.

13. SEGMENT INFORMATION

      The  Company  delivers  high-quality,   cost-effective,  full  life  cycle
solutions  to  complex  software   development  and  maintenance  problems  that
companies face as they  transition to  e-business.  These services are delivered
through the use of a seamless  on-site and  offshore  consulting  project  team.
These  solutions  include  application  development  and  integration  services,
application  management,  re-engineering  and mass  change  implementation.  The
Company has adopted SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosures  About Segments of an Enterprise
and Related



                                     F - 22


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


Information."  Information  about the Company's  operations  and total assets in
North America, Europe and Asia for the three years ended December 31, 1999, 1998
and 1997 are as follows:

                                        1999       1998       1997
                                        ----       ----       ----
REVENUES (1)
North America.......................  $71,171    $47,883    $21,217
Europe..............................   17,352     10,481      3,177
Asia................................      381        242        350
                                      -------    -------    -------
Consolidated........................  $88,904    $58,606    $24,744
                                      =======    =======    =======

OPERATING INCOME (1)
North America.......................  $13,328     $6,724     $1,685
Europe..............................    3,245      2,098        400
Asia................................       72         96         44
                                      -------    -------    -------
Consolidated........................  $16,645     $8,918     $2,129
                                      =======    =======    =======

IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
North America.......................  $43,671    $36,294     $9,930
Europe..............................    3,408      2,846         60
Asia................................   21,947     12,539      8,308
                                      -------    -------    -------
Consolidated........................  $69,026    $51,679    $18,298
                                      =======    =======    =======

(1) Revenues and resulting operating income are attributed to regions based upon
customer location.

      The  Company,  operating  globally,   provides  software  development  and
maintenance services for medium and large businesses.  North American operations
consist primarily of software development and maintenance consulting services in
the United States and Canada.  European operations consist primarily of software
development  and  maintenance  services  principally  in the United  Kingdom and
Germany.   Asian  operations  consist  primarily  of  software  development  and
maintenance consulting services principally in India.

      During 1997, 1998 and 1999, the Company's top five customers accounted for
77.5%,  60.5% and 57.3% of revenues,  respectively.  The  Company's  ten largest
customers accounted for, in the aggregate,  approximately 92.3%, 81.0% and 75.3%
of the Company's revenues in 1997, 1998 and 1999,  respectively.  In 1999, sales
to one related  party  customer  accounted  for 16.7% of revenues  and one third
party customer  accounted for 17.4% of revenues.  In 1998,  sales to one related
party  customer  accounted  for 23.2% of revenues and two third party  customers
accounted for 12.5% and 11.3% of revenues,  respectively.  In 1997, sales to one
related  party  customer  accounted  for 44.3% of  revenues  and one third party
customer accounted for 13.9% of revenues.  For statement of operations purposes,
revenues from related parties only include revenues recognized during the period
in which the related party was affiliated with the Company.



                                     F - 23


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


14.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT (UNAUDITED)

      On February 11,  2000,  the Board of  Directors  declared a 2-for-1  stock
split effected by a 100% dividend  payable on March 16, 2000 to  stockholders of
record on March 2, 2000. Pro forma  unaudited  earnings per share  reflective of
the stock split have been presented in the Company's  Consolidated  Statement of
Operations. The historical share and per share amounts have not been restated to
reflect  the  2-for-1  stock  split.  Such  amounts  will be  restated  upon the
effective date of the stock dividend.



                                     F - 24


QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)


     This table has not been  restated to reflect the  Company's  2-for-1  stock
split which will be effective March 16, 2000.  (See Note 14 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements)





                                     F - 25


                  Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
                      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                            (Dollars in Thousands)

Accounts Receivable Allowance:

          Balance at     Charged to
         Beginning of    Costs and      Charged to                Balance at End
 Year       Period        Expenses    Other Accounts  Deductions     of Period
 1999      $   274         $ (31)                      $  18        $  225
 1998      $   239         $  45                       $  10        $  274
 1997           --           239                          --           239






                                     F - 26

