
10-K
COGNIZANT 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED 12/21/98


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549
                                 ---------------

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                         Commission file number 0-24429

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
            -------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified In Its Charter)


          Delaware                                           13-3728359
- -------------------------------             ------------------------------------
(State or Other Jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 Incorporation or Organization)


             500 Glenpointe Centre West, Teaneck, New Jersey 07666*
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                        (Zip Code)


                                 (201) 801-0233
                          ----------------------------
                             (Registrant's Telephone
                          Number, Including Area Code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


                                                          Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                        on which registered
- --------------------                                    ------------------------


- -----------------------                                 ------------------------


- -----------------------                                 ------------------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                 Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*  On January 1, 1999, the Registrant  relocated its principal  executive office
   from 1700  Broadway,  26th Floor,  New York, New York 10019 to 500 Glenpointe
   Centre West, Teaneck, New Jersey 07666.




     Indicate by check mark  whether the  Registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.


                    Yes:    X                  No:
                        --------                  --------


     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. X


     State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity
held by  non-affiliates  of the  Registrant:  $143,218,423  at February 26, 1999
based on the last sales price on that date.


     Indicate  the  number of  shares  outstanding  of each of the  Registrant's
classes of common stock, as of February 26, 1999:


Class                                                       Number of Shares
- -----                                                       ----------------


Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share                3,506,411

Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share                5,645,450

     The  following  documents  are  incorporated  by reference  into the Annual
Report on Form 10-K: Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for
its 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders  are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Report.



                                      -2-

                                                                -----------------

                  Item                                                  Page
                  ----                                                  ----

PART I      1.    Business................................................4

            2.    Properties.............................................14

            3.    Legal Proceedings......................................14

            4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders....15


PART II     5.    Market for the Company's Common Equity
                  and Related Stockholder Matters........................16

            6.    Selected Consolidated Financial Data...................18

            7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                  Financial Condition and Results of Operations .........19

            8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data............28

            9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
                  on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.................28


PART III    10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Company........29

            11.   Executive Compensation.................................29

            12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                  and Management.........................................29

            13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.........29

PART IV     14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule,
                  and Reports on Form 8-K................................30

SIGNATURES...............................................................31

EXHIBIT INDEX............................................................33

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS..............................F-1




                                      -3-

                                     PART I



ITEM 1.     BUSINESS.

GENERAL

     Cognizant  Technology  Solutions   Corporation  ("CTS"  or  the  "Company")
delivers  high-quality,  cost-effective,  full life cycle  solutions  to complex
information  technology software development and technology maintenance problems
through the use of a seamless  on-site and  offshore  consulting  project  team.
These solutions include application  development and maintenance services,  Year
2000  and  Eurocurrency  compliance  services,  testing  and  quality  assurance
services  and  re-hosting  and  re-engineering  services.  The Company  provides
world-class  service to its customers through an integrated  business model that
combines a technical and account management team located on-site at the customer
location and seven development centers located in India.

     The Company markets and sells its technology  consulting  services directly
through its  professional  staff,  senior  management and direct sales personnel
operating out of its Teaneck,  New Jersey headquarters and its regional offices,
as well as through  independent  sales agents.  The number of customers for whom
the Company has  provided  services  has grown from 27  customers  in 1997 to 40
customers  in  1998.  The  Company's  customers  include  ACNielsen  Corporation
("ACNielsen"),  Aetna Canada, CCC Information Services Incorporated,  IMS Health
Incorporated  ("IMS  Health"),  The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation,  First  Data
Corporation,  GEAC Computer Systems  Incorporated  ("GEAC"),  Guaranty  National
Corporation,  Nielsen Media  Research,  Inc.  ("Nielsen  Media  Research"),  and
Northwest Airlines, Inc.

     The  Company  began  its  software  development  and  maintenance  services
business in early 1994 as an in-house technology  development center for The Dun
& Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In November 1996, the Company,
Erisco,  Inc., IMS International  Inc., Nielsen Media Research,  Pilot Software,
Inc.,  Sales  Technologies,  Inc., and certain other  entities,  plus a majority
interest  in  Gartner  Group  Inc.,  were  spun-off  from  The Dun &  Bradstreet
Corporation to form Cognizant Corporation ("Cognizant"), the then majority owner
and controlling  parent of the Company.  At that time,  ACNielsen was separately
spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation and Dun & Bradstreet Software was
sold to GEAC. In 1997, the Company  purchased the 24.0% minority interest in its
Indian  subsidiary  from a third  party  for $3.4  million,  making  the  Indian
subsidiary wholly owned by the Company.

     On January 15, 1998,  Cognizant announced that it would, subject to certain
conditions,  reorganize  itself, by spinning the Nielsen Media Research business
from the rest of its  businesses,  creating two publicly traded  companies,  IMS
Health and Nielsen Media Research.  The reorganization  became effective on July
1, 1998. The shares of the Company  previously held by Cognizant are now held by
IMS HEALTH and all services  previously provided to the Company by Cognizant are
now being provided by IMS Health.

     On June 19, 1998, the Company  effected its initial public offering ("IPO")
of  2,917,000  shares of its  Class A Common  Stock,  par value  $0.01 per share
(3,354,550 shares including the

                                      -4-

underwriters'  over-allotment option). Of such shares, 2,500,000 were offered by
the Company and 417,000 shares were offered by the Company's then majority owner
and controlling parent,  Cognizant  Corporation  (accounting  predecessor to IMS
Health).  At December 31,  1998,  IMS Health  owned  approximately  61.7% of the
outstanding  stock of the Company and held  approximately  94.2% of the combined
voting power of the Company's  Common Stock.  In 1997, the Company  entered into
various  agreements  with Cognizant which were assigned to IMS Health as part of
the 1998 spin-off. The agreements include an Intercompany Services Agreement for
services  provided by IMS Health such as payroll and payables  processing,  tax,
finance,  personnel administration,  real estate and risk management services, a
License  Agreement  to use  the  "Cognizant"  trade  name  and  an  Intercompany
Agreement.  On July 1,  1998,  IMS Health  transferred  all of its rights to the
"Cognizant" name and related trade and service marks to the Company.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

     Many companies  today face increasing  customer  demands to improve service
levels, lower costs and shorten time to market. In this competitive environment,
improving  IT systems is one critical way to achieve  these  objectives.  At the
same time, the pace of technology  evolution has  accelerated  and companies are
increasingly   adopting   emerging    technologies,    such   as   client/server
architectures,    data   warehousing,    Internet/intranet    applications   and
object-oriented  development  in order to  remain  competitive.  Although  these
emerging  technologies  offer the promise of faster,  more  functional  and more
flexible IT systems, their implementation presents major challenges and requires
a  large  number  of  highly  skilled   individuals   trained  in  many  diverse
technologies and architectures.  In addition,  companies also require additional
technical  resources to maintain  their large legacy systems and to address Year
2000 and Eurocurrency compliance issues.

     Many  companies  have made the  strategic  decision  to focus on their core
competencies and reduce their cost structures rather than invest in the large IT
staffs that are  necessary to  evaluate,  implement  and manage IT  initiatives.
Consequently,  these  companies  have  turned to IT  service  providers  both to
develop and implement new IT solutions and to maintain legacy systems.

     As the global demand for IT services has increased, the number of qualified
technical professionals has not kept pace with such demand. As a result, some IT
service  providers  have  attempted  to access the large  talent pool in certain
developing countries, such as India, which is widely acknowledged as a leader in
offshore software development.  Historically, IT service providers have used the
offshore  labor pool  primarily to  supplement  the internal  staffing  needs of
customers.  However,  evolving  customer  demands have led to the utilization of
offshore  resources  for  higher  value-added  services,   such  as  application
development and maintenance. The use of offshore personnel can offer a number of
benefits,   including  faster  delivery  of  new  IT  solutions,  more  flexible
scheduling and lower costs. However,  utilizing an offshore workforce to provide
value-added services presents a number of challenges to IT service providers.

     The offshore  implementation  of  value-added  software  services  requires
highly developed project  management  skills to design,  develop and deploy high
quality technology solutions in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition,
IT service providers must have the  methodologies,  processes and communications
capabilities  to  successfully   integrate  offshore   workforces  with  on-site
personnel.  Additionally,  service providers  utilizing offshore workforces must
continually



                                      -5-

recruit  and  manage  their  workforces  to  deliver  solutions  using  emerging
technologies.  As a result of the  increasing  demand for global IT services,  a
significant  opportunity  exists for IT service  providers that can successfully
address the challenges in utilizing an offshore talent pool.

THE CTS SOLUTION

     The  Company  delivers  high-quality,   cost-effective,   full  life  cycle
solutions to complex software  development and maintenance  problems through the
use of a seamless  on-site and offshore  project team.  These solutions  include
application  development and maintenance  services,  Year 2000 and  Eurocurrency
compliance  services,  testing and quality assurance services and re-hosting and
re-engineering  services.  The  Company  provides  world-class  service  to  its
customers  through an integrated  business  model which combines a technical and
account  management  team  located  on-site at the  customer  location and seven
development  centers  located in India.  To support  this  business  model,  the
Company has  recruited and trained in excess of 1,500  programmers  in India and
put  in  place  well  developed   facilities,   technology  and   communications
infrastructure.  By basing its technical  operations  in India,  the Company has
access to a large pool of skilled,  English-speaking IT professionals with which
to service  customers  on a cost  basis  significantly  lower than in  developed
countries.  The main  elements of the CTS solution,  which the Company  believes
differentiate it from other IT service providers, include the following:

     Established  and  Scaleable  Proprietary   Processes.   To  facilitate  the
cost-effective, on-time delivery of high-quality projects integrating an on-site
and  offshore  team,  the  Company  has  developed   proprietary   methodologies
encapsulated in its QView software  engineering  process,  which is available to
all  on-site  and  offshore  programmers.  The  Company  utilizes  this ISO 9000
certified process to define and implement projects from the design,  development
and deployment  stages  through to ongoing  application  maintenance.  For every
project,  QView is used to make an extensive  front-end  assessment defining the
scope and risks of the project and to subdivide the project into smaller  phases
with  frequent  deliverables  and  feedback  from  customers.  The Company  also
utilizes  its QView  process to detect,  mitigate and correct  possible  quality
defects and to establish appropriate contingencies for each project. In order to
ensure  implementation  of its quality  process,  the Company  assigns a quality
facilitator to each project who reports to a centralized  quality  assurance and
software engineering group. This group performs,  on a sample basis,  continuous
quality audits,  deliverables  verifications,  metrics  collection and analysis,
which are used to continually improve the Company's processes and methodologies.
The  Company's  processes and  methodologies  have proven to be scaleable as the
Company has increased its number of offshore development centers,  customers and
projects.  Recently,  the  Company  was  assessed  at Level 4 of the  Capability
Maturity  Model  by  the  Software  Engineering  Institute  at  Carnegie  Mellon
University.  The assessment for the Software Capability Maturity Model is widely
regarded  as  the  best  means  to  measure  the  quality  and  maturity  of  an
organization's software development and maintenance processes.

     Highly Skilled Workforce.  The Company has placed  significant  emphasis on
recruiting  and  training  its  workforce of highly  skilled  professionals  and
ensuring  that they are versed in the  Company's  processes  and  methodologies,
particularly the QView software  engineering  process.  The Company has over 100
project managers and senior technical  personnel on its worldwide staff, many of
whom have  significant  work  experience  in the United  States.  The  Company's



                                      -6-


project  managers  and  senior  technical  personnel  provide  in-depth  project
management expertise to customers. The Company maintains programs and personnel,
including an extensive  campus  recruiting  program,  to hire the best available
technical  professionals and to train these professionals in both legacy systems
and emerging  technologies,  as well as the Company's  software  development and
quality  processes.  The Company provides five months of combined  classroom and
on-the-job   training  to  new  hires  and  additional  training  each  year  to
continually  enhance the business  practices,  tools,  technology and consulting
skills of its professional staff.

     Full  Range  of  Technologies.  The  Company  has  project  experience  and
expertise across multiple  architectures  and technologies,  including  emerging
technologies  such  as  data  warehousing,  Internet/intranet  applications  and
object-oriented  development.  Because  most of the  Company's  programmers  are
trained in multiple technologies and architectures, the Company is able to react
to customers' needs and quickly  redeploy  programmers to new  technologies.  In
addition,  through its internal  research  and  development  activities  and the
continuing  education of its technical  personnel,  the Company assures that its
collective skillset keeps pace with emerging  technologies.  The ability to work
in new technologies allows the Company to address the needs of its customers and
to develop new and foster existing long-term relationships.

     Well  Developed   Infrastructure.   The  Company's  extensive   facilities,
technology   and   communications   infrastructure   facilitates   the  seamless
integration of its on-site and offshore workforces by permitting team members in
different locations to access common project information and to work directly on
customer projects.  This infrastructure allows for rapid completion of projects,
off-peak utilization of customers'  technological resources and real-time access
to project information by the on-site account manager or the customer.  By using
the  excess  capacity  of a  customer's  existing  computing  facilities  during
off-peak  hours,  the  Company's  offshore  development  centers  can  undertake
additional projects without substantial  customer investment in new hardware and
software. In addition,  for large projects with short time frames, the Company's
offshore  facilities allow for parallel processing of various development phases
to accelerate delivery time.

STRATEGY

     The  Company's  objective  is to be a leading  provider  of full life cycle
software  development and maintenance services utilizing an on-site and offshore
model.  The  Company  provides  services  to its  North  American  and  European
customers,  supported by its offshore Indian  development  centers.  The Company
pursues the following strategies to achieve this objective:

     Develop  Long-Term  Customer  Relationships  and Strategic  Alliances.  The
Company seeks to develop long-term  strategic  relationships  with customers and
business partners and to leverage these  relationships  into additional  project
opportunities.  For  example,  the  Company  is using its Year  2000  compliance
expertise to establish  relationships  with new customers.  The Company believes
that the knowledge of customers'  systems gained during the  performance of Year
2000 compliance services provides a competitive advantage in securing additional
software development and maintenance projects from these customers. In addition,
the Company  believes that through its working  relationships  with  independent
software vendors it can obtain projects from such vendors'  customers due to the
detailed knowledge gained by the Company in the development process.

                                      -7-

     Extend Service Offerings and Solutions. The Company has a team dedicated to
developing new service offerings in emerging  technologies and also collaborates
with its  customers to develop  such  offerings.  For  example,  the Company has
recently   undertaken   Eurocurrency   compliance  projects  and  is  developing
proprietary solutions using data warehousing and  Internet/intranet  technology.
To facilitate the development of new solutions,  the Company  conducts  internal
research and development and promotes  knowledge building and sharing across the
organization.  The Company believes that the continued  expansion of its service
offerings will reduce its reliance on any one  technology  initiative and foster
long-term relationships with its customers.

     Enhance Processes,  Methodologies and Productivity Toolsets. The Company is
committed to improving and enhancing its proprietary QView software  engineering
process  and other  methodologies  and  toolsets.  With the rapid  evolution  of
technology,  the Company  believes  that  continued  investment  in research and
development is critical to its success.  The Company  currently is designing and
developing new  productivity  software tools to automate  testing  processes and
improve  project  estimation  and  risk  assessment   techniques.   The  Company
continually  refines its  processes by utilizing  groupware  technology to share
project experience and best practice methodologies across the organization.

     Expand  Geographic  Presence.  As the Company expands its customer base, it
plans to open  additional  sales and  marketing  offices in the United States to
enable it to sell to and support  existing  and  prospective  customers.  During
1998, sales and marketing  offices in Chicago and San Francisco were opened.  In
addition,  the Company has been pursuing market  opportunities in Europe through
its U.K. office which was established in the beginning of 1998.

     Pursue  Selective  Strategic   Acquisitions.   The  Company  believes  that
opportunities  exist in the fragmented IT services market to expand its business
through selective strategic acquisitions.  The Company believes that acquisition
candidates may enable it to expand its geographic presence, enter new technology
areas or expand capacity.

SERVICES

     The Company  provides a broad range of software  services,  including:  (i)
application  development;  (ii) application maintenance support; (iii) Year 2000
compliance; (iv) Eurocurrency compliance; (v) testing and quality assurance; and
(vi) re-hosting and re-engineering. The Company's range of services enable it to
meet customer needs for systems development/integration,  application management
and mass change implementation.  The Company uses its QView software engineering
process, its on-site and offshore delivery model and well developed  facilities,
technology and communications infrastructure to deliver these services. For each
of these  services,  the Company  utilizes its QView  proprietary  processes and
methodologies to define the execution and delivery of the projects.

Service                                Summary Description of Service Offerings
- -------                                ----------------------------------------

Application Development............... Define requirements, write specifications
                                       and design, develop and test software.

                                      -8-


Application Maintenance Support...... Support  some  or  all  of  a   customer's
                                      applications ensuring  that systems remain
                                      operational  and  responsive  to  changing
                                      user requirements.

Year 2000 Compliance................. Renovate applications to correctly process
                                      dates  in  the   next  century,  including
                                      impact analysis, code conversion,  testing
                                      and implementation.

Eurocurrency Compliance...............Renovate applications to correctly process
                                      transactions  which   are  denominated  in
                                      Eurocurrency,   as   well   as    existing
                                      currencies.

Testing and Quality Assurance.........Test source  and/or binary code  to verify
                                      that it  conforms  to  specifications  and
                                      compatibility requirements.

Re-hosting and Re-engineering.........Modify  and   test  applications to enable
                                      systems  to  function  in   new  operating
                                      environments.

     Application Development Services. The Company develops new applications for
IBM  mainframe,   client/server  architectures  and  other  emerging  technology
environments.   The  Company  follows  either  of  two  alternative  approaches,
including  (i) full life cycle  application  development,  in which the  Company
assumes total  start-to-finish  responsibility  and accountability for analysis,
design,  implementation and testing of systems, or (ii) cooperative development,
in which the Company's employees work with a customer's in-house IT personnel to
jointly  analyze,  design,  implement and test new systems.  In both cases,  the
Company's   on-site  team  members  work  closely  with  the  end-users  of  the
application to develop specifications and define requirements.  Detailed design,
implementation  and testing are  generally  performed  offshore at the Company's
seven software  development  centers located in India. In addition,  the Company
maintains  an on-site  presence at the  customer's  location in order to address
evolving customer needs and resulting changes to the project.

     Application  Maintenance Support Services. The Company provides services to
ensure that a customer's  legacy software systems are operational and responsive
to  end-users'  changing  needs.  In doing  so,  the  Company  is often  able to
introduce   process   enhancements  and  improve  service  levels  to  customers
requesting modifications and on-going support.

     Through its on-site and  offshore  delivery  model,  the Company is able to
provide a range of support services to its customers. On-site team members often
provide  help desk  services  at the  customer's  facility.  These team  members
typically  carry  pagers in the event of an  emergency  service  request and are
often  available to quickly  resolve  customer  problems from remote  locations.
Routine  maintenance  services,   including   modifications,   enhancements  and
documentation,  which  typically  have longer turn around  times,  are completed
offshore  utilizing  satellite  telecommunications  and  the  resources  of  the
Company's software development centers.


                                      -9-

     Year 2000 Compliance  Services.  With the year 2000  approaching,  computer
software  systems that were not designed to correctly  process dates in the next
century are expected to fail.  Organizations rely on  mission-critical  software
systems and must either  repair the problem  presented by the Year 2000 issue or
replace legacy systems.

     The Company uses its proprietary Year 2000 toolset and methodology, Century
Transition Services 2000, to provide a cost-effective  total technology solution
for all  phases  of a Year  2000  compliance  project.  The  Century  Transition
Services 2000 methodology covers the entire life cycle of a Year 2000 compliance
project,  and is comprised of a seven step process:  (i) inventory  preparation;
(ii) impact  analysis;  (iii)  strategy  and  design;  (iv) code change and data
migration;  (v) unit, system and acceptance testing;  (vi)  implementation;  and
(vii)  post-implementation  support. The Company believes that it differentiates
itself from its competitors  through the use of its Century Transition  Services
2000.

     The Century Transition  Services 2000 toolset covers a wide array of common
programming   languages   and   environments    including   many   client/server
environments.  This  toolset is capable of  identifying  Year 2000  problems  in
COBOL,  Model 204, SAS, Mark IV, CLIST,  REXX,  PL/1,  IBM Mainframe  Assembler,
TELON, JCL and other languages.  In the midrange and client/server  environment,
the Company's toolset addresses,  among other languages,  C, C+ +, Visual Basic,
PowerBuilder,   Sybase,  MS-Office  (Word,  Excel,  Access),  Oracle,  Informix,
Paradox,  Clipper,  FoxPro and Lotus Notes.  The Company is thus able to provide
complete solutions across a large portion of customers' systems.

     Eurocurrency  Compliance  Services.  The  monetary  union  of the  European
Community  presents  a  significant  opportunity  for the  Company  as  computer
systems,  which deal with any European  denominated currency need to be modified
to handle local  currency and  Eurocurrency  transactions.  Based on the current
schedule for European monetary  unification,  non-cash Euro transactions started
on January 1, 1999,  bank notes and coins will start  circulating  on January 1,
2002 and national  currencies will be withdrawn by July 1, 2002. The Company has
established  a  dedicated  practice  to  focus  on the  Eurocurrency  compliance
problem.

     Testing and Quality Assurance Services.  Testing and quality assurance is a
critical  aspect of any software  development  activity.  The Company works with
customers to better define the quality  assurance  processes which are in use by
the  customers'  in-house  IT  departments.  The  Company  utilizes  its quality
assurance expertise,  based on its QView software engineering process, to ensure
better quality software through fundamental process improvements.

     The  Company  also  advises  certain  customers,   principally  independent
software  vendors,  on  testing  applications  which  may or may not  have  been
developed by the Company.  Various  types of testing  services such as top-down,
bottom-up,  black-box/white-box,   unit,  integration  and  system  testing  are
provided  by a large  offshore  team in a short  time,  with  minimal  impact on
product  release.  Defect  tracking is  automated by a  CTS-developed  tool that
ensures that all detected defects are tracked to closure.

     Re-Hosting and Re-Engineering  Services.  Through the Company's  re-hosting
and  re-engineering  service  offerings,  the Company  works with  customers  to
migrate  systems  based  on  legacy  computing   environments  to  newer,   open
systems-based platforms and client/server

                                      -10-

architectures. The Company's re-engineering tools automate many of the processes
required to implement advanced client/server technologies, thereby substantially
reducing  the time and cost to perform  these  services.  These tools enable the
Company to perform  source code analysis and to re-design  target  databases and
convert certain  programming  languages.  If necessary,  the Company's  software
engineers also re-design and convert user interfaces.

CUSTOMERS

     The  Company  provided  services to a total of 11, 27 and 40  customers  in
1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. During 1996, 1997 and 1998, the Company's top
five customers  accounted for 97.6%, 77.5% and 60.5% of revenues,  respectively.
During 1996,  1997 and 1998, IMS Health and its current  subsidiaries  accounted
for  15.7%,  23.7%  and  18.0% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  volume of work
performed  for  specific  customers  is likely to vary from year to year,  and a
significant  customer  in one  year  may  not use the  Company's  services  in a
subsequent  year.  The Company's  ten largest  customers  accounted  for, in the
aggregate,  approximately  99.9%,  92.3% and 81.0% of its revenues in 1996, 1997
and 1998, respectively.  In 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation accounted for
more  than  75.0% of  revenue.  In 1997,  Cognizant  Corporation  and  ACNielsen
accounted for more than 40.0% and 10.0% of revenues,  respectively. In 1998, IMS
Health,  First Data Corporation and ACNielsen each accounted for more than 10.0%
of revenue.  Approximately 26.4%, 44.4% and 44.1% of the Company's revenues were
derived from Year 2000 compliance services in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.
Application  development  services  represented  approximately  20.9%, 19.4% and
25.8%  of  the  Company's  revenues  in  1996,  1997  and  1998,   respectively.
Application  maintenance  services  accounted for 44.2%,  28.4% and 21.1% of the
Company's revenues in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

SALES AND MARKETING

     The  Company   markets  and  sells  its  services   directly   through  its
professional  staff, senior management and direct sales persons operating out of
its  Teaneck,  New  Jersey  headquarters  and  business  development  offices in
Chicago,  San Francisco,  Toronto and London.  At December 31, 1998, the Company
had ten direct sales persons,  29 account  managers and five  independent  sales
agents. The sales and marketing group works with the Company's technical team as
the sales  process  moves  closer to the  customer's  selection of an IT service
provider.  The  duration of the sales  process  varies  depending on the type of
service,  ranging from  approximately  two months to over one year.  The account
manager or sales  executive  works with the technical  team to define the scope,
deliverables,  assumptions  and  execution  strategies  for a proposed  project,
develop  project  estimates,  prepare  pricing and margin  analyses and finalize
sales  proposals.  Management  reviews and approves the proposal,  which is then
presented to the prospective  customer.  Sales and account management  personnel
remain actively involved in the project through the execution phase.

     The Company  focuses its  marketing  efforts on businesses  with  intensive
information   processing  needs.  The  Company  maintains  a   prospect/customer
database,  which is continuously updated and utilized throughout the sales cycle
from prospect  qualification to close. As a result of this marketing system, the
Company prequalifies sales opportunities,  and direct sales  representatives are
able to minimize  the time spent on  prospect  qualification.  The Company  also
generates  a portion  of its  business  through  outside  agents,  who work on a
commission basis. In

                                      -11-

this regard,  account  managers  play an important  role in helping to develop a
long-term  relationship  with customers.  In addition,  substantial  emphasis is
placed on customer  retention  and  expansion  of services  provided to existing
customers.

COMPETITION

     The IT services market includes a large number of participants,  is subject
to rapid change and is highly  competitive.  This market  includes  participants
from a variety of market segments, including systems integration firms, contract
programming companies, application software companies, the professional services
groups of computer equipment  companies,  facilities  management and outsourcing
companies and "Big Five" accounting  firms, as well as smaller local competitors
in the various  geographic  markets in which the Company  operates.  The Company
competes with, among others, Alydaar Corp., Cambridge Technology Partners, Inc.,
Cap Gemini America,  Inc., Complete Business Solutions,  Inc., Computer Horizons
Corp.,  Computer  Task  Group,  Inc.,  CSC  Consulting,  Information  Management
Resources,  Inc.,  Infosys,  Inc., IBM Global  Services,  Keane,  Inc.,  Mastech
Corporation,  Satyam Computer Services  Limited,  SHL Systemhouse (a division of
MCI Communications  Corporation),  Syntel,  Inc., Tata Consultancy  Services and
Whittman-Hart,  Inc. In certain markets in which the Company competes, there are
no  significant  barriers  to  entry.  Current  and  potential  competitors  may
introduce new and more  competitive  services,  make strategic  acquisitions  or
establish  cooperative  relationships  among  themselves or with third  parties,
thereby  increasing  the  ability  of their  services  to  address  the needs of
customers.   Many  of  the  Company's  competitors  have  significantly  greater
financial,  technical and marketing  resources and greater name recognition than
the Company.  The principal  competitive  factors  affecting the markets for the
Company's  services  include (i)  performance and  reliability,  (ii) quality of
technical  support,  training and  services,  (iii)  responsiveness  to customer
needs, (iv) reputation,  experience and financial  stability and (v) competitive
pricing  of  services.  The  Company  competes  by  offering  a  well  developed
recruiting,  training and retention model, a successful  service delivery model,
an excellent  referral base,  continual  investment in process  improvement  and
knowledge  capture,  and continued  focus on  responsiveness  to customer needs,
quality of services,  competitive  prices,  project management  capabilities and
technical  expertise.  In order to be successful in the future, the Company must
continue  to  respond  promptly  and  effectively  to  technological  change and
competitors'  innovations.  There can be no  assurance  that the Company will be
able to compete  successfully  against current and future  competitors,  and its
failure  to do so could  have a  material  adverse  effect  upon  the  Company's
business, results of operations and financial condition.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The Company's  consulting  business  includes the  development  of software
applications and other technology  deliverables including written specifications
and  documentation  in  connection  with  specific  customer  engagements.   The
Company's  future  success  depends  in  part  on its  ability  to  protect  its
intellectual  property  rights.  The  Company  presently  holds  no  patents  or
registered  copyrights,  and relies upon a  combination  of copyright  and trade
secret  laws,  non-disclosure  and other  contractual  arrangements  and various
security measures to protect its intellectual property rights. India is a member
of the Berne Convention,  and has agreed to recognize  protections on copyrights
conferred under the laws of foreign countries,  including the laws of the United
States.  The Company  believes  that laws,  rules,  regulations  and treaties in
effect  in the  United  States  and  India  are  adequate  to  protect  it  from
misappropriation or unauthorized use of its copyrights.

                                      -12-

However,  there can be no  assurance  that such laws  will not  change  and,  in
particular,  that the laws of India will not change in ways that may  prevent or
restrict the transfer of software components,  libraries and toolsets from India
to the United  States.  There can be no  assurance  that the steps  taken by the
Company to protect its  intellectual  property  rights will be adequate to deter
misappropriation of any of its intellectual  property,  or that the Company will
be able to detect  unauthorized  use and take  appropriate  steps to enforce its
rights.

     Pursuant to the License  Agreement  between the Company and IMS Health (the
"License   Agreement"),   Cognizant   Corporation   granted  to  the  Company  a
non-exclusive,  nonassignable, revocable license to use the "Cognizant" name and
certain related trade and service marks.  On July 1, 1998 Cognizant  Corporation
transferred  all of its rights to the  "Cognizant"  name and  related  trade and
service marks to the Company. See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1998, the Company employed  approximately  325 persons on a
full-time  basis in its North American  headquarters  and satellite  offices and
on-site North American customer locations (19 of whom are United States citizens
or permanent  residents),  approximately  65 persons on a full-time basis in its
European   satellite  office  and  on-site  European   customer   locations  and
approximately  1,170  persons  on a  full-time  basis in its  offshore  software
development  centers in India.  As of December 31, 1998,  approximately  290, or
94.0% of the Company's  employees working in the United States,  were working in
the H-1B, nonimmigrant work-permitted visa classification. None of the Company's
employees  is  subject  to a  collective  bargaining  arrangement.  The  Company
considers its relations with its employees to be good.

     The future  success of the Company  depends to a significant  extent on its
ability  to  attract,  train and  retain  highly  skilled  software  development
professionals,  particularly  project  managers,  software  engineers  and other
senior technical personnel.  The Company believes that in both the United States
and India there is a shortage  of, and  significant  competition  for,  software
development  professionals with the advanced  technological  skills necessary to
perform  the  services  offered  by the  Company.  The  Company  has  an  active
recruitment  program in India and has developed a recruiting system and database
that  facilitates the rapid  identification  of skilled  candidates.  During the
course of the year, the Company  visits  approximately  45 premier  colleges and
technical schools in India. The Company  evaluates  candidates based on academic
performance,  the results of a written  aptitude test measuring  problem-solving
skills and a technical interview. In addition, the Company has an active lateral
recruiting program.

     Senior  project  managers  are hired from leading  consulting  firms in the
United States and India. The Company's senior  management and  substantially all
of the project managers have experience working in the United States and Europe,
which enhances the Company's  ability to attract and retain other  professionals
with experience in the United States.

     The Company also has adopted a career and education  management  program to
define  the  employees'  objectives  and  career  plans.  Through  an  intensive
orientation and training  program,  the Company  introduces new employees to the
QView software engineering process and the Company's services.


                                      -13-

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES.

     The  Company's  executive  and  business  development  office is located in
Teaneck,  New Jersey.  The Company's  lease in New York, for its prior executive
office space,  was terminated at January 1, 1999 at no cost to the Company.  The
Company  believes  that its  existing  facilities  are  adequate  to support its
existing  operations  and that,  as needed,  it will be able to obtain  suitable
additional facilities on commercially reasonable terms.

The Company occupies the following properties, which are all leased:

                    Approximate
     Location          Area             Use              Nature of Occupancy
                   (in sq. feet)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Chennai, India         49,200     Software              Multiple leases expiring
                                  Development Facility  2/1/06-12/15/06 with
                                                        renewal options

Chennai, India         35,100     Software              Multiple leases expiring
                                  Development Facility  3/31/03-5/1/06 with
                                                        renewal options

Chennai, India         20,000     Software              Lease expiring 8/1/04 
                                  Development Facility  with a renewal option

Calcutta, India        13,900     Software              Lease expiring 10/7/07
                                  Development Facility  with a renewal option

Pune, India            11,500     Software              Lease expiring 7/10/07
                                  Development Facility  with a renewal option

Calcutta, India         9,300     Software              Lease expiring 11/1/00
                                  Development Facility  with a renewal option

Calcutta, India         4,000     Software              Multiple Leases expiring
                                  Development Facility  5/1/99-1/25/00 with
                                                        renewal options

Teaneck, New Jersey     9,700     Executive and         Lease expiring 5/31/02
                                  Business
                                  Development Office

Chicago, Illinois       2,000     Business              Lease expiring 10/15/00
                                  Development Office

San Francisco,            500     Business              Lease expiring 1/31/99
California                        Development Office

London, England           800     Business              Monthly lease
                                  Development Office

Toronto, Canada           200     Business              Lease expiring 1/31/99
                                  Development Office

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company has received  correspondence from legal counsel  representing a
company  called  Cognizant  Design  Group of  Incline  Village,  Nevada  ("CDG")
alleging  infringement by the Company of CDG's  purportedly  prior rights to the
name  "Cognizant."  CDG demanded that the Company,  among other things,  refrain
from  further  use  of the  name  "Cognizant"  in the  future.  The  Company  is
investigating the claims made by CDG and, if appropriate, intends to seek a

                                      -14-

mutually satisfactory resolution. There can be no assurance,  however, that such
a resolution  will be obtained on terms  satisfactory to the Company or that CDG
will  not  commence  litigation  against  the  Company.  If such  litigation  is
commenced  there can be no assurance that there will be an outcome  favorable to
the Company.

     There is no other material litigation to which the Company is a party or to
which any of its property is subject.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     Not applicable.



                                      -15-

                                     PART II


ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE  COMPANY'S  COMMON  EQUITY AND RELATED  STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS.

     Prior to June 1998, there was no established market for the Company's Class
A Common Stock.  Since June 19, 1998, the Class A Common Stock has traded on the
NASDAQ National Market ("NNM") under the symbol "CTSH".

     All of the issued and  outstanding  shares of Class B Common Stock are held
by IMS Health.  Each outstanding share of Class B Common Stock is convertible at
the holder's  option into one share of Class A Common Stock at any time prior to
a Tax-Free  Spin-Off (as defined  below).  If a Tax-Free  Spin-Off  occurs,  the
stockholders  of IMS  Health  will  receive  Class B Common  Stock,  which  will
continue  to have ten votes per  share  (as  compared  to one vote per share for
Class A Common  Stock).  Such shares of Class B Common Stock shall  convert upon
transfer to Class A Common Stock but shall no longer be convertible  into shares
of Class A Common Stock at the option of the holder. Additionally, each share of
Class B Common  Stock  automatically  converts  into one share of Class A Common
Stock if at any time the number of  outstanding  shares of Class B Common  Stock
represents  less  than  35.0%  of  the  economic  ownership  represented  by the
aggregate number of shares of Common Stock then outstanding.

     Except as provided below, any shares of Class B Common Stock transferred to
a person other than IMS Health shall automatically  convert to shares of Class A
Common Stock upon such  disposition.  Shares of Class B Common Stock transferred
to  stockholders  of IMS Health in a  transaction  intended  to be on a tax-free
basis (a  "Tax-Free  Spin-Off")  under the Code  shall not  convert to shares of
Class A Common Stock upon the occurrence of such Tax-Free Spin-Off.

     Following a Tax-Free Spin-Off, shares of Class B Common Stock shall convert
upon transfer to Class A Common Stock; provided, however, that shares of Class B
Common Stock shall automatically  convert into shares of Class A Common Stock on
the fifth  anniversary of the Tax-Free  Spin-Off,  unless prior to such Tax-Free
Spin-Off,  IMS  Health  delivers  to  the  Company  written  advice  of  counsel
reasonably  satisfactory  to the Company to the effect that (i) such  conversion
could  adversely  affect the ability of IMS Health to obtain a favorable  ruling
from the  Internal  Revenue  Service that the  distribution  would be a Tax-Free
Spin-Off or (ii) the Internal  Revenue Service has adopted a general  non-ruling
policy on tax-free spin-offs and that such conversion could adversely affect the
status of the  transaction  as a Tax-Free  Spin-Off.  If such written  advice is
received,  approval  of such  conversion  shall  be  submitted  to a vote of the
holders of the Common Stock as soon as practicable  after the fifth  anniversary
of the  Tax-Free  Spin-Off,  unless IMS Health  delivers to the Company  written
advice  of  counsel  reasonably  satisfactory  to  the  Company  prior  to  such
anniversary that such vote could adversely affect the status of the distribution
as a Tax-Free Spin-Off,  including the ability to obtain a favorable ruling from
the Internal  Revenue  Service.  If such written advice is delivered,  such vote
shall not be held. Approval of such conversion will require the affirmative vote
of the  holders  of a majority  of the  shares of both Class A Common  Stock and
Class B Common Stock present and voting, voting together as a single class, with
each share entitled to one vote for such purpose. No assurance can be given that
such conversion would be consummated. The foregoing requirements are intended to
ensure that tax-free  treatment of a Tax-Free  Spin-Off is preserved  should the
Internal


                                      -16-

Revenue Service challenge such automatic  conversion as violating the 80.0% vote
requirement currently required by the Code for a Tax-Free Spin-Off.

     The following table sets forth the high and low sales price for the Class A
Common Stock for each of the quarters  since the quarter  ended June 30, 1998 as
reported on NNM. Such quotations  reflect  inter-dealer  prices,  without retail
mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not represent actual transactions.

          Quarter Ended                High                 Low
     --------------------------      ------------        -----------

     June 30, 1998...........         $12 7/8             $ 9 1/2
     (from June 19, 1998)
     September 30, 1998......         $19 5/8             $11 9/16
     December 31, 1998.......         $33 1/2             $ 7

     As of February 22, 1999, the approximate number of holders of record of the
Class A Common Stock was 17 and the approximate  number of beneficial holders of
the Class A Common Stock was 2,225.

     As of February 22, 1999, all of the outstanding Class B Common Stock of the
Company was owned by IMS Health.

     The Company has never  declared or paid dividends on its Class A or Class B
Common Stock.  The Company  currently  intends to retain any future  earnings to
finance the growth of the business and,  therefore,  does not anticipate  paying
any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.



                                      -17-

ITEM 6.     SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following table sets forth selected  consolidated  historical financial
data of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated.  The selected
consolidated  financial  data set forth below for the Company as of December 31,
1997 and 1998 and for each of the three years in the period  ended  December 31,
1998 are  derived  from the  audited  financial  statements  included  elsewhere
herein. The selected consolidated financial data set forth below for the Company
as of December 31, 1994,  1995 and 1996 and for each of the years ended December
31, 1994 and 1995 are derived from the audited financial statements not included
elsewhere herein. The selected consolidated financial information for 1996, 1997
and  1998  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and the Notes and "Item 7.  Management's  Discussion and Analysis of
Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" which are included  elsewhere in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                1994      1995       1996       1997     1998
                                ----      ----       ----       ----     ----
                                    (in thousands, except per share data)
STATEMENTS OF INCOME DATA:
Revenues..................     $   --    $   298   $ 2,775    $13,898   $45,031
Revenues - related party..      1,687      6,877     9,257     10,846    13,575
                               ------     ------    ------     ------    ------

   Total revenues.........      1,687      7,175    12,032     24,744    58,606

Cost of revenues..........        534      3,567     6,020     14,359    31,919
                               ------     ------    ------     ------    ------

Gross profit..............      1,153      3,608     6,012     10,385    26,687

Selling, general and
 administrative expenses..      1,351      2,213     3,727      6,898    15,547

Depreciation and 
 amortization expense.....         65        376       819      1,358     2,222
                               ------     ------    ------     ------    ------

Income (loss) from
 operations...............       (263)     1,019     1,466      2,129     8,918

Other income:
   Interest income........          4          7         8         25       638
   Other income - net.....        (19)        44         1         --        83
                               ------     ------    ------     ------    ------
   Total other income.....        (15)        51         9         25       721
                               ------     ------    ------     ------    ------

Income before provision
 for income taxes.........       (278)     1,070     1,475      2,154     9,639

Provision for income
 taxes....................        105       (247)     (341)      (581)   (3,606)

Minority interest.........        (22)      (362)     (492)      (545)        -

Net income................    $  (195)   $   461   $   642    $ 1,028   $ 6,033
                               ======     ======    ======     ======    ======

Basic earnings per share..    $ (0.03)   $  0.07   $  0.10    $  0.16   $  0.76
                               ======     ======    ======     ======    ======

Diluted earnings per 
 share....................    $ (0.03)   $  0.07   $  0.10    $  0.16   $  0.73
                               ======     ======    ======     ======    ======

Weighted average number
 of common shares
 outstanding..............      6,500      6,500     6,500      6,547     7,943
                               ======     ======    ======     ======    ======

Weighted average number
 of common shares and
 stock options
 outstanding..............      6,500      6,500     6,500      6,605     8,269
                               ======     ======    ======     ======    ======

BALANCE SHEET DATA
(at period end):
Cash and cash equivalents.    $   174    $   546   $ 1,810    $ 2,715   $28,418
Working capital...........        305      1,126     2,781      5,694    29,416
Total assets..............      1,824      5,451     7,827     18,298    51,679
Due to related party......        690        662       976      6,646         9
Stockholders' equity......        408      1,766     2,806      3,419    32,616


                                      -18-

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL  CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

GENERAL

     The Company  delivers full life cycle software  development and maintenance
technology  consulting  services to its customers  through the use of a seamless
on-site  and  offshore  project  team.   These  services   include   application
development  and maintenance  services,  Year 2000 and  Eurocurrency  compliance
services,   testing  and  quality   assurance   services  and   re-hosting   and
re-engineering services.

     The  Company  began  its  software  development  and  maintenance  services
business in early 1994, as an in-house technology development center for The Dun
& Bradstreet Corporation and its operating units. In 1996, the Company,  Erisco,
Inc. ("Erisco"),  IMS International Inc. ("IMS"),  Nielsen Media Research, Inc.,
Pilot  Software Inc. and Sales  Technologies,  Inc. and certain other  entities,
plus a majority  interest in Gartner  Group,  Inc.  were spun-off from The Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation to form  Cognizant.  In 1997, the Company  purchased the
24.0%  minority  interest in its Indian  subsidiary  from a third party for $3.4
million, making the Indian subsidiary wholly owned by the Company. In June 1998,
the Company  completed  its IPO. On June 30,  1998,  a majority  interest in the
Company,  Erisco, IMS and certain other entities were spun-off from Cognizant to
form IMS Health. At December 31, 1998, IMS Health owned  approximately  61.7% of
the  outstanding  stock  of the  Company  and  held  approximately  94.2% of the
combined  voting power of the Company's  Common Stock.  During 1996, the Company
made a strategic  decision to attract  customers that were not  affiliated  with
Cognizant or any of the former  affiliates of The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation.
As a result,  sales from customers not currently or previously  affiliated  with
The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation,  Cognizant,  IMS  Health,  and any of  their
respective subsidiaries grew from $1.3 million, or 11.2% of revenues, in 1996 to
$6.5  million,  or 26.3% of  revenues,  in 1997 and $26.9  million,  or 46.0% of
revenues, in 1998.

     Approximately  88.8%,  73.7% and 54.0% of the  Company's  revenues in 1996,
1997 and 1998,  respectively,  were generated from current and former affiliates
of the Company including  approximately  15.7%,  23.7% and 18.0%,  respectively,
from IMS Health and its  current  subsidiaries.  In  addition,  the  Company has
derived and believes that it will  continue to derive a  significant  portion of
its revenues from a limited number of large third-party customers.  During 1996,
1997 and 1998, the Company's five largest  customers  (other than IMS Health and
its current  subsidiaries)  accounted  for 80.7%,  50.8% and 43.7% of  revenues,
respectively.  In 1996, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation accounted for more than
75.0% of revenue.  In 1997,  Cognizant  Corporation and ACNielsen  accounted for
more than 40.0% and 10.0% of revenues,  respectively. In 1998, IMS Health, First
Data  Corporation  and ACNielsen  each accounted for more than 10.0% of revenue.
The  volume of work  performed  for IMS Health  and its  subsidiaries  and other
customers  is likely to vary from year to year,  and a major  customer,  whether
affiliated  or  unaffiliated,  in one year  may not  provide  the same  level of
revenues in any subsequent year.

     Approximately 26.4%, 44.4% and 44.1% of the Company's revenues were derived
from  Year  2000  compliance  services  in 1996,  1997 and  1998,  respectively.
Application  development  services  represented  approximately  20.9%, 19.4% and
25.8% of the Company's revenues in 1996,

                                      -19-

1997 and 1998,  respectively.  Application  maintenance  services  accounted for
44.2%,  28.4%  and  21.1% of the  Company's  revenues  in 1996,  1997 and  1998,
respectively.

     The  Company's  services are  performed on either a  time-and-materials  or
fixed-price  basis. The Company expects that an increasing  number of its future
projects  will  be  fixed-price  rather  than   time-and-materials   (which  has
historically   been  the  basis  for  its   contracts).   Revenues   related  to
time-and-materials  contracts  are  recognized  as  the  service  is  performed.
Revenues   related  to   fixed-price   contracts   are   recognized   using  the
percentage-of-completion  method of  accounting,  under which the sales value of
performance,  including  earnings  thereon,  is  recognized  on the basis of the
percentage  that each contract's cost to date bears to the total estimated cost.
Estimates are subject to adjustment as a project  progresses to reflect  changes
in expected completion costs. The cumulative impact of any revision in estimates
of the  percentage  of work  completed is reflected in the  financial  reporting
period in which the change in the estimate  becomes known,  and any  anticipated
losses are  recognized  immediately.  Since the  Company  bears the risk of cost
over-runs and inflation  associated  with  fixed-price  projects,  the Company's
operating results may be adversely  affected by changes in estimates of contract
completion costs.

     The majority of the  Company's  revenues are earned  within North  America.
Revenues  outside of North America totaled $2.4 million,  $3.5 million and $10.7
million in 1996, 1997 and 1998,  respectively.  Revenues from customers  located
outside of North  America  have  historically  been  generated  primarily in the
United  Kingdom and Germany.  As a percentage of revenues,  revenues  outside of
North  America  represented  19.9%,  14.3%  and  18.3% in 1996,  1997 and  1998,
respectively.  The primary  denomination  for invoices  issued by the Company is
U.S.  dollars,  with the  exception of invoices  issued in Canada and the United
Kingdom  which are  issued in local  currency.  Gains and  losses as a result of
fluctuations  in foreign  currency  exchange  rates  have not had a  significant
impact on results of operation.


                                      -20-

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth for the periods  indicated certain financial
data expressed as a percentage of total revenue:

                                                      Year Ended
                                                     December 31,
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                             1996         1997          1998
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------

Total revenues.......................       100.0%       100.0%        100.0%
Cost of revenues.....................        50.0         58.0          54.5
                                           ------        -----        ------
   Gross profit......................        50.0         42.0          45.5
Selling, general and administrative
   expenses..........................        31.0         27.8          26.5
Depreciation and amortization
   expense...........................         6.8          5.6           3.8
                                           ------        -----        ------
   Income from operations............        12.2          8.6          15.2
Other income (expense):
   Interest income...................         0.1          0.1           1.1
   Other income (expense)............          --           --           0.1
                                           ------        -----        ------
Total other income (expense).........         0.1          0.1           1.2
Income before provision for
   income taxes......................        12.3          8.7          16.4
Provision for income taxes...........        (2.8)        (2.3)         (6.2)
Minority interest....................        (4.1)        (2.2)           --
                                           ------        -----        ------
Net income...........................         5.3%         4.2%         10.3%
                                           ======        =====        ======


                                      -21-

Year Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1997

     Revenue.  Revenue increased by 136.8%, or $33.9 million, from $24.7 million
in 1997 to $58.6  million  in 1998.  This  increase  included  $14.9  million of
increased Year 2000 compliance services, and $19.0 million of increased sales of
software development,  maintenance and Eurocurrency compliance services. Revenue
growth resulted,  in part, from the successful  implementation  of the Company's
Year 2000  rollover  strategy,  pursuant  to which Year 2000  clients  have been
converted to include non-Year 2000 assignments  including  software  development
and  maintenance.  The percentage of revenues from unrelated  parties  increased
from 56.2% in 1997 to 76.8% in 1998. This increase  resulted  primarily from the
Company's continued efforts to pursue unaffiliated third-party customers and the
impact of the  spin-off  in June 1998 of a  majority  interest  in the  Company,
Erisco, IMS and certain other entities to form IMS Health, and the establishment
of Nielsen Media Research as a separate  publicly traded company.  For statement
of  operations  purposes,  revenues from related  parties only include  revenues
recognized  during the period in which the related party was affiliated with the
Company.  Accordingly,  as of July 1, 1998, Nielsen Media Research was no longer
deemed to be a related party.

     Gross profit. The Company's cost of revenues consists primarily of the cost
of salaries,  payroll  taxes,  benefits,  immigration  and travel for  technical
personnel,  and the cost of sales commissions related to revenues. The Company's
cost of revenues  increased by 122.3%,  or $17.6 million,  from $14.4 million in
1997 to $31.9  million in 1998.  The increase was due primarily to the increased
cost  resulting  from the  increase  in the  number of the  Company's  technical
professionals   from  approximately  900  employees  at  December  31,  1997  to
approximately  1,400  employees at December 31, 1998. The Company's gross profit
increased by 157.0%, or approximately  $16.3 million,  from approximately  $10.4
million in 1997 to  approximately  $26.7  million in 1998.  Gross profit  margin
increased  from 42.0% of  revenues  in 1997 to 45.5% of  revenues  in 1998.  The
increase in gross profit  margin was  primarily  attributable  to the  increased
third party revenue which have higher margins and a higher  utilization level of
technical professionals during 1998 compared to 1997.

     Selling,  general  and  administrative   expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  consist  primarily  of  salaries,  employee  benefits,
travel,  promotion,  communications,  management,  finance,  administrative  and
occupancy  costs.  Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses,   including
depreciation and amortization,  increased by 115.2%, or $9.5 million,  from $8.3
million in 1997 to $17.8  million in 1998,  but  decreased  as a  percentage  of
revenue  from 33.4% to 30.3%,  respectively.  The  increase in such  expenses in
absolute dollars was primarily due to expenses  incurred to expand the Company's
sales and marketing activities and increased  infrastructure expenses to support
the  Company's  revenue  growth.  The  Company  expects  selling,   general  and
administrative  expenses to continue to increase in absolute  dollars to support
the Company's  expansion.  The decrease in selling,  general and  administrative
expenses  as a  percentage  of revenue  resulted  from the  Company's  continued
ability to leverage the significant investments it made in the beginning of 1997
to establish a sales and marketing organization and to create the infrastructure
necessary to operate as an independent company.

     Income from  Operations.  Income from operations  increased  318.9% or $6.8
million,  from $2.1 million in 1997 to $8.9 million in 1998,  representing  8.6%
and 15.2% of  revenues,  respectively.  The  increase  in  operating  margin was
primarily due to the increased third-party

                                      -22-

revenue which generally has higher margins and the higher  utilization  level of
technical professionals mentioned above.

     Other  Income.  Other  income  consists  primarily  of interest  income and
foreign  currency  exchange gains.  Interest  income  increased by $613,000 from
$25,000 in 1997 to $638,000 in 1998.  The increase in such  interest  income was
attributable   primarily  to  increased   interest  income  resulting  from  the
investment  of the net proceeds  generated  from the Company's IPO and generally
higher cash balances.  The Company  recognized a net foreign  currency  exchange
gain of $83,000 in 1998, as a result of the effect of changing exchange rates on
the Company's transactions.

     Provision for Income Taxes. Historically,  the Company had been included in
the consolidated federal income tax returns of The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation
and  Cognizant.  The Company's  provision  for income taxes in the  consolidated
statements of income reflects  federal and state income taxes  calculated on the
Company's  stand alone basis.  The  provision  for income taxes  increased  from
$581,000 in 1997 to $3.6 million in 1998  resulting in an effective  tax rate of
27.0% in 1997 and 37.4% in 1998.  Without the effect of minority  interest,  the
effective tax rate would have been approximately 35.0% in 1997.

     Minority Interest.  In 1997,  minority interest expense was $545,000.  This
expense was attributable to profitability of the Company's Indian  subsidiary in
which an unaffiliated  third party held a 24.0% minority  interest.  The Company
purchased the minority  interest in October 1997 for $3.4  million.  The Company
has not recognized any minority expense subsequent to such purchase. In 1997 and
1998  the  Company  recorded  $76,000  and  $317,000  of  amortization  expense,
respectively, in connection with the goodwill recorded on the acquisition of the
remaining portion of its Indian subsidiary.

     Net Income.  Net income increased from $1.0 million in 1997 to $6.0 million
in 1998, representing 4.2% and 10.3% as a percentage of revenues, respectively.


Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to  Year Ended December 31, 1996

     Revenue. The Company's revenues increased 105.7% from $12.0 million in 1996
to $24.7 million in 1997. This increase included $7.8 million of increased sales
of Year  2000  compliance  services,  and $4.9  million  of  increased  sales of
software development and maintenance  services.  The percentage of revenues from
unrelated parties increased from 23.1% or $2.8 million in 1996 to 56.2% or $13.9
million in 1997. This increase resulted from the full-year impact in 1997 of the
fourth quarter 1996 spin-off of Cognizant (including the Company) from The Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation,  as well as the  Company's  expanded  efforts to pursue
unaffiliated  third-party  customers.  For  statement  of  operations  purposes,
revenues from related parties only include revenues recognized during the period
in which the related party was affiliated with the Company.

     Gross  profit.  Gross profit  increased  72.7% from $6.0 million in 1996 to
$10.4 million in 1997. As a percentage of revenues,  gross profit  declined from
50.0% in 1996 to 42.0% in 1997.  Cost of  revenues  increased  138.5%  from $6.0
million in 1996 to $14.4  million in 1997.  The increase in cost of revenues was
primarily  attributable  to increases in the number of the  Company's  technical
professionals from approximately 500 employees at December 31, 1996 to

                                      -23-

approximately  900  employees  at December  31,  1997.  The  increase in cost of
revenues as a percentage of revenues  resulted  primarily from a movement in the
mix of programmers from offshore to on-site locations,  which resulted in higher
labor rates and lower gross margins.

     Selling,  general  and  administrative   expenses.   Selling,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  81.6%  from  $4.5  million  in 1996 to $8.3
million in 1997.  This  increase  included  $2.3 million in increased  sales and
marketing  expenses  and $1.4 million in  increased  infrastructure  expenses to
support  the  Company's   revenue  growth  as  the  Company  opened  its  fourth
development center in India. As a percentage of revenues,  selling,  general and
administrative expense declined from 37.8% in 1996 to 33.4% in 1997.

     Income from  Operations.  Income from operations  increased 45.2% from $1.5
million  in 1996  to $2.1  million  in  1997,  representing  12.2%  and  8.6% of
revenues,  respectively.  The decrease in operating  margin was primarily due to
the Company's investment in its expanding sales and marketing  infrastructure to
support its strategy of continued  pursuit of  third-party  customers  and, to a
lesser extent, the movement in the mix of project staff from offshore to on-site
locations.

     Provision for Income Taxes.  The provision for income taxes increased 70.4%
from $341,000 in 1996 to $581,000 in 1997, resulting in an effective tax rate of
23.1% in 1996 and 27.0% in 1997.  Without the effect of minority  interest,  the
effective tax rate would have been approximately 35.0% for both periods.

     Minority Interest. In 1996, minority interest expense was $492,000 compared
to  $545,000 in 1997.  The  increase in  absolute  dollars was  attributable  to
increased  profitability  of the  Company's  Indian  subsidiary in which a third
party  held the  24.0%  minority  interest  offset by the  effect on the  income
statement  of the  purchase of such  minority  interest in October 1997 for $3.4
million. The Company has not recognized any minority interest expense subsequent
to such purchase.

     Net Income.  Net income was $642,000 in 1996 as compared to $1.0 million in
1997, representing 5.3% and 4.2% as a percentage of revenues, respectively.

BACKLOG

     The Company  generally enters into written  contracts with its customers at
the time it commences work on a project. These written contracts contain varying
terms  and  conditions  and  the  Company  does  not  generally  believe  it  is
appropriate  to  characterize   such  written  contracts  as  creating  backlog.
Additionally, because these written contracts often provide that the arrangement
can be terminated with limited advance notice and without  penalty,  the Company
does not  believe  that  projects  in  progress  at any one time are a  reliable
indicator or measure of expected future revenue.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Historically,  the Company's  primary sources of funding had been cash flow
from  operations  and  intercompany  cash  transfers with its majority owner and
controlling  parent company IMS Health,  accounting  successor to Cognizant.  In
June 1998, the Company  consummated  its IPO of 2,917,000  shares of its Class A
Common Stock at a price to the public of

                                      -24-

$10.00 per share, of which 2,500,000  shares were issued and sold by the Company
and 417,000  shares were sold,  at that time, by  Cognizant.  In July 1998,  IMS
Health (the  accounting  successor to Cognizant)  sold 437,550 shares of Class B
Common Stock pursuant to an over allotment option granted to the underwriters of
the IPO. The net proceeds to the Company  from the offering  were  approximately
$22.4  million  after  $845,000 of direct  expenses.  The funds  received by the
Company from the IPO were invested in  short-term,  investment  grade,  interest
bearing  securities,  after the  Company  used a portion of the net  proceeds to
repay  approximately  $6.6  million  of  non-trade  related  party  balances  to
Cognizant. The Company expects to use the remainder of the net proceeds from the
offering  for (i)  expansion of existing  operations,  including  the  Company's
offshore software development centers; (ii) continued development of new service
lines and  possible  acquisitions  of  related  businesses;  and  (iii)  general
corporate purposes including working capital.

     Net cash provided by operating  activities was approximately  $13.3 million
during  the year  ended  1998 as  compared  to net cash  provided  by  operating
activities  of $1.7 million  during the year ended 1997.  The  increase  results
primarily from a higher level of accrued liabilities,  increased net income, and
an increase in deferred  taxes,  partially  offset by  increased  other  current
assets.  Accounts receivable increased from $7.4 million at December 31, 1997 to
$11.1 million at December 31, 1998. The increase in accounts  receivable was due
primarily  to the  Company's  increase in revenue  partially  offset by improved
collection  efforts and results.  The Company monitors  turnover,  aging and the
collection of accounts  receivable  through the use of management  reports which
are prepared on a customer basis and evaluated by the Company's finance staff.

     The Company's  investing  activities  used net cash of $3.7 million for the
year ended  December  31, 1998 as compared to net cash used of $6.4  million for
the year ended  December  31,  1997.  The  decrease  in 1998 of net cash used in
investing activities compared to 1997 primarily reflects the payment in 1997 for
the acquisition of the minority interest of the Company's Indian subsidiary.

     The Company's  financing  activities provided net cash of $16.1 million for
the year ended  December 31, 1998 as compared to $5.7 million for the year ended
December 31, 1997. The increase in 1998 compared to 1997 resulted primarily from
the  net  proceeds  generated  from  the IPO of  $22.4  million,  offset  by the
repayment of non-trade related party balances of approximately $6.6 million.

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company had no significant third-party debt.

     The Company had working  capital of $29.4  million at December 31, 1998 and
$5.7 million at December 31, 1997.

     The Company  believes that its available  funds and the cash flows expected
to be  generated  from  operations,  will be adequate to satisfy its current and
planned operations and needs for the next 12 months.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

     The  assets  and  liabilities  of  the  Company's   Canadian  and  European
subsidiaries  are  translated  into U.S.  dollars at current  exchange rates and
revenues and expenses are  translated at average  monthly  exchange  rates.  The
resulting translation adjustments are recorded in a separate

                                      -25-

component of  stockholders'  equity.  For the Company's Indian  subsidiary,  the
functional currency is the U.S. dollar since its sales are made primarily in the
United States,  the sales price is  predominantly in U.S. dollars and there is a
high volume of intercompany transactions denominated in U.S. dollars between the
Indian subsidiary and its U.S.  affiliates.  Non-monetary assets and liabilities
are  translated  at  historical   exchange  rates,  while  monetary  assets  and
liabilities are translated at current exchange rates. A portion of the Company's
costs in India  are  denominated  in local  currency  and  subject  to  exchange
fluctuations,  which have not had any material  adverse  effect on the Company's
results of operations.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

     The Company's most significant  costs are the salaries and related benefits
for its programming staff and other professionals.  Competition in India and the
United States for  professionals  with advanced  technical  skills  necessary to
perform the  services  offered by the Company have caused wages to increase at a
rate  greater  than the  general  rate of  inflation.  As with  other IT service
providers,  the Company must adequately anticipate wage increases,  particularly
on its fixed-price contracts. There can be no assurance that the Company will be
able to recover cost increases  through  increases in the prices that it charges
for its services in the United States and elsewhere.

RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE YEAR 2000

     Historically,  certain computer programs have been written using two digits
rather  than four to define  the  applicable  year,  which  could  result in the
computer  recognizing a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than 2000.  This
in turn,  could  result in major  system  failures  or  miscalculations,  and is
generally  referred to as the "Year 2000 Problem".  The Company believes that it
has  sufficiently  assessed its state of readiness with respect to its Year 2000
compliance. As the assessment was completed using internal personnel,  costs and
time for such personnel were not  specifically  tracked.  The Company,  however,
estimates that such costs were immaterial. There were no external costs incurred
by the Company relating to its Year 2000  assessment.  Costs incurred to date to
address the Year 2000  problem  have been  immaterial  and the Company  does not
believe that Year 2000  compliance  will result in material  investments  by the
Company  in the  future.  The  Company  does not  anticipate  that the Year 2000
Problem will have any material  adverse  effects on the business  operations  or
financial  performance of the Company.  The Company does not believe that it has
any  material  exposure  to the  Year  2000  Problem  with  respect  to its  own
information  systems  and  believes  that all of its  business-critical  systems
correctly define the Year 2000 and subsequent years.  There can be no assurance,
however,  that the Year 2000 Problem  will not  adversely  affect the  Company's
business, operating results and financial condition.

     Contingency planning is underway in all of the Company's operations.  These
plans will address facilities and equipment,  telecommunications infrastructure,
and internal administrative  processes. In addition,  these plans will take into
account human  resource and  communications  issues that relate to the Company's
employees. By the end of June 1999, the Company expects to have such contingency
plans in place to address the most likely  effects on the Company from  external
risks.  As more  information  emerges  about  services upon which the Company is
critically reliant, these plans will be adjusted accordingly.

                                      -26-


     The  purchasing  patterns  of  customers  and  potential  customers  may be
affected by issues  associated with the Year 2000 Problem.  As companies  expend
significant  resources to correct  their current data storage  solutions,  these
expenditures  may result in reduced  funds to undertake  projects  such as those
offered by the  Company.  There can be no  assurance  that the Year 2000 Problem
will  not  adversely  affect  the  Company's  business,  operating  results  and
financial condition. Conversely, the Year 2000 Problem may cause other companies
to accelerate purchases,  thereby causing an increase in short-term demand and a
consequent decrease in long-term demand for the Company's services.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     During 1998,  various new accounting  pronouncements  were issued which may
impact the  Company's  financial  statements.  (See Note 2. to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.)

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     The  statements  contained in this Annual  Report on Form 10-K that are not
historical facts are  forward-looking  statements (within the meaning of Section
21E of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) that involve risks and
uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other
things,  the use of forward-looking  terminology such as "believes,"  "expects,"
"may,"  "will,"  "should"  or  "anticipates"  or the  negative  thereof or other
variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that
involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  From  time  to  time,  the  Company  or its
representatives have made or may make forward-looking  statements,  orally or in
writing. Such forward-looking statements may be included in various filings made
by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or press releases or
oral statements made by or with the approval of an authorized  executive officer
of the Company. These forward-looking  statements,  such as statements regarding
anticipated   future  revenues,   contract   percentage   completions,   capital
expenditures,  and other  statements  regarding  matters that are not historical
facts,  involve  predictions.  The  Company's  actual  results,  performance  or
achievements  could differ  materially from the results expressed in, or implied
by, these  forward-looking  statements.  Potential risks and uncertainties  that
could affect the Company's future operating results include, but are not limited
to:  (i) the  significant  fluctuations  of the  Company's  quarterly  operating
results  caused by a  variety  of  factors,  many of which  are not  within  the
Company's control, including (a) the number, timing, scope and contractual terms
of software development and maintenance projects,  (b) delays in the performance
of  projects,  (c) the accuracy of  estimates  of costs,  resources  and time to
complete  projects,  (d) seasonal patterns of the Company's services required by
customers,  (e) levels of market acceptance for the Company's services,  and (f)
the hiring of  additional  staff;  (ii)  changes in the  Company's  billing  and
employee  utilization  rates;  (iii) the Company's  ability to manage its growth
effectively,  which will  require the Company (a) to increase  the number of its
personnel,  particularly skilled technical,  marketing and management personnel,
and  (b)  to  continue  to  develop  and  improve  its  operational,  financial,
communications and other internal systems,  both in the United States and India;
(iv) the Company's limited operating  history with unaffiliated  customers;  (v)
the  Company's  reliance on key customers  and large  projects;  (vi) the highly
competitive  nature  of the  markets  for  the  Company's  services;  (vii)  the
Company's ability to successfully  address the continuing changes in information
technology,  evolving industry  standards and changing  customer  objectives and
preferences;  (viii) the Company's reliance on the continued services of its key
executive officers and leading technical personnel; (ix) the

                                      -27-

Company's  ability to attract and retain a sufficient  number of highly  skilled
employees in the future;  (x) the Company's  ability to protect its intellectual
property rights; (xi) general economic conditions; (xii) year 2000 compliance of
vendors' products and related issues,  including impact of the year 2000 problem
on customer buying  patterns;  and (xiii) the outcome of the impact of Year 2000
on the Company.  The Company's  actual  results may differ  materially  from the
results disclosed in such forward-looking statements.


ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     The financial  statements  required to be filed pursuant to this Item 8 are
appended to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A list of the financial  statements
filed and financial  statement schedule herewith is found at "Item 14. Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedule, and Reports on Form 8-K."


ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.


     Not applicable.


                                      -28-

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

     The information relating to the Company's directors,  nominees for election
as directors and executive  officers under the headings  "Election of Directors"
and "Executive  Officers" in the Company's  definitive  proxy  statement for the
1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated  herein by reference to such
proxy statement.


ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The discussion under the heading "Executive  Compensation" in the Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  for the 1999  Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  is
incorporated herein by reference to such proxy statement.


ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The discussion under the heading "Security  Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management" in the Company's  definitive proxy statement for the 1999
Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference to such proxy
statement.


ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The  discussion  under  the  heading  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related
Transactions"  in the Company's  definitive  proxy statement for the 1999 Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders  is  incorporated  herein by  reference  to such proxy
statement.



                                      -29-

                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  (1)    Financial Statements.

            Reference is made to the Index to Consolidated Financial  Statements
            on Page F-1.

(a)  (2)    Financial Statement Schedule.

            Reference is  made to the  Index to Financial  Statement Schedule on
            Page F-1.

(a)   (3)   Exhibits.

            Reference is made to the Index to Exhibits on Page 33.

(b)         Reports on Form 8-K.

            No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended  December
            31, 1998.


Schedules  other  than the one  listed  above are  omitted  as not  required  or
inapplicable or because the required information is provided in the consolidated
financial statements, including the notes thereto.

                                      -30-




                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 19th day of March,
1999.


                                          COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS
                                          CORPORATION



                                          By:/s/Wijeyaraj Mahadeva
                                             -------------------------------
                                             Wijeyaraj Mahadeva, Chairman of the
                                               Board and Chief Executive Officer



                                      -31-

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

       Signature                       Title                        Date
       ---------                       -----                        ----

/s/Wijeyaraj Mahadeva          Chairman of the Board and       March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  Wijeyaraj Mahadeva           Chief Executive Officer
                               (Principal Executive
                               Officer)


/s/Gordon Coburn               Chief Financial Officer,        March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  Gordon Coburn                Treasurer and Secretary
                               (Principal Financial and
                               Accounting Officer)


/s/Anthony Bellomo             Director                        March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  Anthony Bellomo

/s/Paul Cosgrave               Director                        March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  Paul Cosgrave

                               Director                        
- ----------------------
  Victoria Fash

/s/John Klein                  Director                        March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  John Klein

/s/Venetia Kontogouris         Director                        March 19, 1999
- ----------------------
  Venetia Kontogouris



                                      -32-

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

  EXHIBIT
    NO.                 DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- ------------            -----------------------

    3.1                 Amended  and  Restated   Certificate  of  Incorporation.
                        (Incorporated   by  reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to  the
                        Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1  (File
                        Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

    3.2                 By-laws.  (Incorporated  by  reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
                        the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (File
                        Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

   10.1*                Form of  Indemnification  Agreement  for  Directors  and
                        Officers.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
                        the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (File
                        Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

   10.2*                Amended and Restated Cognizant  Technology Solutions Key
                        Employees' Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated by reference
                        to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's  Registration Statement
                        on  Form  S-1  (File  Number   333-49783)  which  became
                        effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.3*                Amended  and  Restated  Cognizant  Technology  Solutions
                        Non-Employee     Directors'     Stock    Option    Plan.
                        (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.3  to  the
                        Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1  (File
                        Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

   10.4*                Option  Agreement  between  the  Company  and  Wijeyaraj
                        Mahadeva.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to
                        the Company's  Registration  Statement on Form S-1 (File
                        Number  333-49783)  which  became  effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

   10.5*                Form of Master  Services  Agreement  between the Company
                        and each of I.M.S.  International,  Inc.,  IMS  America,
                        Ltd. and Nielsen Media Research,  Inc.  (Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's  Registration
                        Statement  on Form S-1  (File  Number  333-49783)  which
                        became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   10.6*                License  Agreement  between the  Company  and  Cognizant
                        Corporation.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6
                        to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1
                        (File Number  333-49783)  which became effective on June
                        18, 1998.)

   10.7*                Intercompany Agreement between the Company and Cognizant
                        Corporation.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
                        to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-1
                        (File Number  333-49783)  which became effective on June
                        18, 1998.)

                                      -33-

  EXHIBIT
    NO.                 DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- ------------            -----------------------

   10.8*                Intercompany  Services Agreement between the Company and
                        Cognizant  Corporation.  (Incorporated  by  reference to
                        Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's  Registration Statement on
                        Form S-1 (File Number  333-49783) which became effective
                        on June 18, 1998.)

   10.9*                Form of Severance and Non-Competition  Agreement between
                        the  Company  and  each  of  its   Executive   Officers.
                        (Incorporated  by  reference  to  Exhibit  10.9  to  the
                        Company's  Registration  Statement  on  Form  S-1  (File
                        Number 333-49783) which became effective on June 18,
                        1998.)

   10.10**              Sublease  dated August 28, 1998 by and between Trans Tec
                        Services,  Inc.,  as  Sublessor,  and  the  Company,  as
                        Sublessee.

   21                   List of  subsidiaries of the Company.  (Incorporated  by
                        reference  to Exhibit 21 to the  Company's  Registration
                        Statement  on Form S-1  (File  Number  333-49783)  which
                        became effective on June 18, 1998.)

   23**                 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

   27**                 Financial Data Schedule.



- ------------------
*     A management  contract or compensatory plan or arrangement  required to be
      filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**    Filed herewith.  All other exhibits previously filed.


                                      -34-

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SCHEDULE


                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----

Consolidated Financial Statements:

   Report of Independent Accountants.......................................F-2

   Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of
     December 31, 1997 and 1998............................................F-3

   Consolidated Statements of Operations for the
     years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998..........................F-4

   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
     Equity for the years ended
     December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998......................................F-5

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
     years ended December 31, 1996, 1997 and 1998..........................F-6

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..............................F-7

Unaudited Quarterly Financial Data........................................F-23

Financial Statement Schedule
  Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...........................F-24




                                      F-1

                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation:

     In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial statements listed in the index
appearing  under  Item  14(a)(1)  on page 30  present  fairly,  in all  material
respects,  the financial position of Cognizant Technology Solutions  Corporation
as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their  operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles.  In addition,  in our
opinion,  the financial  statement  schedule listed in the index appearing under
Item  14(a)(2)  on  page 30  presents  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
information  set  forth  therein  when  read in  conjunction  with  the  related
consolidated  financial  statements.  These  financial  statements and financial
statement  schedule are the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management;  our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on these  financial  statements  and
financial  statement  schedule  based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with generally  accepted auditing standards which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether the financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP
New York, New York
February 26, 1999


                                      F-2

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                      (in thousands, except par values)
                                                               AT DECEMBER 31,
                                                               ---------------
                                                                1998      1997
                                                                ----      ----
         ASSETS
 Current assets
 Cash and cash equivalents................................... $28,418   $ 2,715
 Trade accounts receivable, net of allowances of $274 and
   $239, respectively........................................   9,230     4,733
 Trade accounts receivable - related party...................   1,877     2,670
 Unbilled accounts receivable................................   1,088       210
 Other current assets........................................   1,754       568
                                                              -------    ------
   Total current assets......................................  42,367    10,896
                                                              -------    ------

 Property and equipment - net................................   6,270     4,453
 Goodwill, net...............................................   1,830     2,147
 Other assets................................................   1,212       802
                                                              -------    ------
   Total assets.............................................. $51,679   $18,298
                                                              =======    ======

         LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 Current liabilities
 Accounts payable............................................ $ 1,744   $ 1,543
 Accrued and other liabilities...............................  11,207     3,659
                                                              -------     -----
   Total current liabilities.................................  12,951     5,202

 Deferred income taxes.......................................   6,103     2,593
 Due to related party........................................       9     6,646
 Minority interest...........................................      --        --
                                                              -------    ------
   Total liabilities.........................................  19,063    14,441
                                                              -------    ------

 Commitments and contingencies

 Mandatorily redeemable common stock (none issued and
   outstanding at December 31, 1998 and 114 shares at
   December 31, 1997)........................................      --       438
                                                              -------    ------
 Stockholders' equity:
 Preferred stock, $.10 par value, 15,000 shares authorized,
   none issued...............................................      --        --
 Class A common stock, $.01 par value, 100,000 shares
   authorized, 3,505 shares and 417 shares issued and
   outstanding at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively...      35         4
 Class B common stock, $.01 par value, 15,000 shares
   authorized, 5,645 shares and 6,083 shares issued and
   outstanding at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively...      57        61
 Additional paid-in capital..................................  24,566     1,420
 Retained earnings...........................................   7,969     1,936
 Cumulative translation adjustment...........................     (11)       (2)
                                                              --------   ------
   Total stockholders' equity................................  32,616     3,419
                                                              -------    ------
   Total liabilities and stockholders' equity................ $51,679   $18,298
                                                               ======    ======


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.


                                      F-3

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (in thousands, except per share data)

                                                      Years Ended December 31,
                                                     1998      1997       1996
                                                     ----      ----       ----

Revenues.........................................   $45,031   $13,898    $2,775
Revenues-related party...........................    13,575    10,846     9,257
                                                   --------  --------   -------
  Total revenues.................................    58,606    24,744    12,032
Cost of revenues.................................    31,919    14,359     6,020
                                                   ---------  --------   ------
Gross profit.....................................    26,687    10,385     6,012
Selling, general and administrative expense......    15,547     6,898     3,727
Depreciation and amortization expense............     2,222     1,358       819
                                                   --------  --------   -------
Income from operations...........................     8,918     2,129     1,466
Other income:
Interest income..................................       638        25         8
                                                   --------  --------   -------
Other income, net................................        83        --         1
                                                   --------  --------   -------
  Total other income.............................       721        25         9
Income before provision for income taxes.........     9,639     2,154     1,475
Provision for income taxes.......................    (3,606)     (581)     (341)
Minority interest................................        --      (545)     (492)
                                                   --------  --------   -------
Net income.......................................    $6,033    $1,028    $  642
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Net income per share, basic......................     $0.76     $0.16     $0.10
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Net income per share, diluted....................     $0.73     $0.16     $0.10
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Weighted average number of common shares
  outstanding - Basic............................     7,943     6,547     6,500
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Dilutive Effect of Shares Issuable as of
  Period-End Under Stock Option Plans............       302        58        --
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Adjustment of Shares Applicable to Exercised
  Stock Options during the Period................        24        --        --
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Weighted average number of common shares - 
  Diluted.........................................    8,269     6,605     6,500
                                                   ========  ========   =======

Comprehensive Income:
  Net income.....................................    $6,033    $1,028    $  642
  Foreign currency translation adjustment........        (9)       (2)       --
                                                   --------  --------   -------
Total comprehensive income.......................    $6,024    $1,026    $  642
                                                   ========  ========   =======


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.


                                      F-4



                  COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                (in thousands)




                                      F-5

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)
                                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                                  1998       1997        1996
                                                  ----       ----        ----

Cash flows from operating activities:
Net income.................................     $6,033      $1,028       $ 642
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
  cash provided by Operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization............      2,222       1,358         819
  Provision for doubtful accounts..........         45         239          --
  Deferred income taxes....................      3,510       1,170         518
  Minority interest........................         --         545         492

Changes in assets and liabilities:
Accounts receivable........................     (3,959)     (4,933)        (440)
Other current assets.......................     (1,854)       (591)          37
Other assets...............................       (410)       (390)        (199)
Accounts payable...........................        201         842         (474)
Accrued and other liabilities..............      7,548       2,386          487
Other adjustments for non-cash items.......         22           2           --
                                               --------    --------     --------
Net cash provided by operating activities..     13,358       1,656        1,882
                                               --------    --------     --------

Cash flows used in investing activities:
Purchase of property and equipment.........     (3,743)     (3,025)      (1,329)
Payment for acquisition of minority
  interest in subsidiary...................         --      (3,418)          --
                                               --------    --------     --------
Net cash (used in) investing activities....     (3,743)     (6,443)      (1,329)

Cash flows from financing activities:
Proceeds from Initial Public Offering......     23,250          --           --
Costs associated with Initial Public
  Offering.................................       (843)         --           --
Proceeds from option exercises/
  compensatory grant/contributed capital...        327          25          397
Payments to/proceeds from related party
  prior to the IPO.........................     (6,637)      5,669          315
                                               --------    --------     --------
Net cash provided by financing activities..     16,097       5,694          712

Effect of Currency Translation.............         (9)         (2)          --

Increase in cash and cash equivalents......     25,703         905        1,265
Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning
  of year..................................      2,715       1,810          545
                                              ---------    --------     --------
Cash and cash equivalents, at end of year..   $ 28,418     $ 2,715      $ 1,810
                                              =========    ========     ========

Supplemental information:
Cash paid for income taxes during the year.   $     53     $   158      $    32
                                              =========    ========     ========


The  accompanying  notes  are an  integral  part of the  consolidated  financial
statements.


                                      F-6

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The  Company  is  principally  engaged  in  the  software  development  and
maintenance  consulting  services  business with operations and  subsidiaries in
India, the United Kingdom, Canada and the United States. It delivers services to
customers,  principally  in the United  States,  through an on-site and offshore
project  team.  These  information   technology   consulting   services  include
application  development and maintenance  services,  Year 2000 and  Eurocurrency
compliance  services,  testing and quality assurance services and re-hosting and
re-engineering services.

     The Company is a Delaware  corporation  originally  organized in 1988.  The
Company began its software  development  and  maintenance  services  business in
early  1994,  as  an  in-house  technology  development  center  for  The  Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation and its operating  units. In 1996, the Company,  Erisco,
Inc. ("Erisco"),  IMS International Inc. ("IMS"),  Nielsen Media Research, Inc.,
Pilot  Software Inc. and Sales  Technologies,  Inc. and certain other  entities,
plus a majority  interest in Gartner  Group,  Inc.  were spun-off from The Dun &
Bradstreet Corporation to form Cognizant Corporation ("Cognizant"). In 1997, the
Company  purchased the 24.0% minority  interest in its Indian  subsidiary from a
third party for $3.4 million,  making the Indian  subsidiary wholly owned by the
Company.  In June 1998,  the  Company  completed  its IPO. On June 30,  1998,  a
majority  interest in the Company,  Erisco,  IMS and certain other entities were
spun-off from  Cognizant to form IMS Health  Incorporated  ("IMS  Health"),  the
"accounting   successor"  to  Cognizant,   the  Company's   majority  owner  and
controlling parent company.

     IMS Health  currently  provides  the Company  with  certain  administrative
services,  including payroll and payables  processing,  e-mail, tax planning and
compliance,  and permitted the Company to participate in IMS Health's  insurance
and employee  benefit  plans.  Costs for these services for all periods prior to
the IPO were allocated to the Company based on  utilization of certain  specific
services.  All  subsequent  services  were  performed  under the CTS IMS  Health
intercompany  services  agreement.  (See  also  Note  10.  to  the  Consolidated
Financial Statements.)


2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

 Principles of Consolidation.  The consolidated financial statements reflect the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
Company and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  as if it were a separate entity for
all periods presented.

 Cash and Cash Equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents primarily include time and
demand deposits in the Company's operating bank accounts.  The Company considers
all highly liquid  instruments  with an initial maturity of three months or less
to be cash equivalents.



                                      F-7

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

 Property and  Equipment.  Property  and  equipment  are stated at cost,  net of
accumulated depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line basis
over the  estimated  useful  lives of the  assets.  Leasehold  improvements  are
amortized on a straight-line  basis over the shorter of the term of the lease or
the  estimated  useful  life of the  improvement.  Maintenance  and  repairs are
expensed as incurred, while renewals and betterments are capitalized.

 Goodwill.  Goodwill  represents  the excess of the purchase price of the former
minority  interest in the Company's  Indian  subsidiary  over the fair values of
amounts assigned to the incremental net assets acquired. Amortization expense is
recorded  using  the  straight-line   method  over  a  period  of  seven  years.
Amortization  expense  was  $317  and $76 as of  December  31,  1998  and  1997,
respectively. At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the recoverability
of goodwill by  comparing  the  unamortized  balance to the related  anticipated
undiscounted  future cash flows from operating  activities.  It is the Company's
policy to recognize any  anticipated  under-recovery  of goodwill as a result of
this review.

 Revenue  Recognition.  The  Company's  services  are  entered  into on either a
time-and-materials  or fixed-price basis.  Revenues related to time-and-material
contracts  are  recognized  as the  service is  performed.  Revenues  related to
fixed-price  contracts  are  recognized  as the service is  performed  using the
percentage-of-completion  method of  accounting,  under which the sales value of
performance,  including  earnings  thereon,  is  recognized  on the basis of the
percentage  that each contract's cost to date bears to the total estimated cost.
Fixed price contracts are cancellable  subject to a specified notice period. All
services  provided by the Company through the date of  cancellation  are due and
payable under the contract terms.  The Company issues invoices  related to fixed
price contracts based upon achievement of milestones during a project. Estimates
are subject to adjustment as a project progresses to reflect changes in expected
completion  costs.  The  cumulative  impact  of any  revision  in  estimates  is
reflected  in the  financial  reporting  period in which the change in  estimate
becomes  known  and  any   anticipated   losses  on  contracts  are   recognized
immediately.  A reserve for  warranty  provisions  under such  contracts,  which
generally  exist for ninety days past  contract  completion,  is  estimated  and
accrued during the contract period.

 Unbilled  Accounts   Receivable.   Unbilled  accounts  receivable   represent
revenues on contracts to be billed,  in subsequent  periods,  as per the terms
of the contracts.

 Foreign  Currency  Translation.  The assets and  liabilities  of the  Company's
Canadian and European  subsidiaries  are translated into U.S. dollars at current
exchange  rates and  revenues and expenses  are  translated  at average  monthly
exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in a separate
component of stockholders'  equity.  For the Company's  Indian  subsidiary ("CTS
India"),  the functional  currency is the U.S. dollar,  since its sales are made
primarily in the United States, the sales price is predominantly in U.S. dollars
and there is a high  volume of  intercompany  transactions  denominated  in U.S.
dollars  between  CTS India and its U.S.  affiliates.  Non-monetary  assets  and
liabilities are translated at historical  exchange rates,  while monetary assets
and  liabilities are translated at current  exchange  rates.  The resulting gain
(loss) is included in other income.


                                      F-8

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

 Risks and Uncertainties.  The preparation of financial statements in accordance
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities  and disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities as of the date
of the financial  statements,  and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during  the  reported  period.  The most  significant  estimates  relate  to the
allowance for doubtful accounts,  reserve for warranties,  depreciation of fixed
assets and long-lived assets and the recognition of revenue and profits based on
the  percentage of  completion  method of  accounting  for fixed bid  contracts.
Actual  results  could  vary  from the  estimates  and  assumptions  used in the
preparation of the accompanying financial statements.

     All of the Company's software development centers, including a substantial
majority of its employees  and assets,  are located in India.  As a result,  the
Company  may  be  subject  to  certain  risks   associated  with   international
operations,  including  risks  associated  with foreign  currency  exchange rate
fluctuations  and  risks  associated  with the  application  and  imposition  of
protective  legislation  and  regulations  relating  to  import  and  export  or
otherwise  resulting from foreign policy or the variability of foreign  economic
conditions.  To date,  the Company has not  engaged in any  significant  hedging
transactions  to mitigate  its risks  relating to  exchange  rate  fluctuations.
Additional risks associated with international  operations include  difficulties
in enforcing  intellectual property rights, the burdens of complying with a wide
variety of foreign laws, potentially adverse tax consequences,  tariffs,  quotas
and other barriers.  A significant  portion of the Company's current engagements
are for the Company's Year 2000 compliance projects. An unanticipated decline in
the  demand for Year 2000  compliance  services  could  have a material  adverse
effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

      The Company  believes that demand for Year 2000  compliance  services will
diminish after the year 2000, as many solutions are  implemented  and tested.  A
core element of the Company's strategy is to use the business  relationships and
the knowledge of its customers' computer systems obtained in providing Year 2000
services to generate additional  projects from these customers.  There can be no
assurance  that the Company will be successful  in  generating  demand for other
services from its Year 2000 customers.

 Net Income Per Share.  In 1997,  the Company  adopted  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," which replaces the
presentation  of primary net income  (loss) per share  ("EPS") and fully diluted
EPS with a presentation  of basic EPS and diluted EPS,  respectively.  Basic EPS
excludes  dilution  and is  computed by dividing  earnings  available  to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the
period.  Similar  to fully  diluted  EPS,  diluted  EPS  includes  all  dilutive
potential common stock in the weighted average shares outstanding.

 Concentration of Credit Risk.  Financial  instruments that potentially  subject
the Company to significant  concentrations  of credit risk consist  primarily of
cash and cash equivalents and trade accounts  receivable.  The Company maintains
its cash and cash equivalents with high credit quality financial institutions.

                                      F-9

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

 Income Taxes.  Prior to the  consummation of the Company's IPO, the Company had
been  included in the federal and certain  state income tax returns of Cognizant
and The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation.  The  provision  for income taxes in the
Company's  consolidated  financial  statements has been calculated on a separate
company  basis.  Income tax  benefits  realized by the  Company and  utilized by
Cognizant or The Dun &  Bradstreet  Corporation  are  included in  stockholders'
equity.  The  Company is no longer  included in the  consolidated  return of its
majority owner and controlling parent company,  and is required to file separate
income tax returns.

     On a stand-alone basis, the Company provides for income taxes utilizing the
asset and liability  method of accounting  for income taxes.  Under this method,
deferred  income  taxes are recorded to reflect the tax  consequences  in future
years of differences  between the tax basis of assets and  liabilities and their
financial  reporting  amounts  at each  year end based on  enacted  tax laws and
statutory  tax rates  applicable  to the  periods in which the  differences  are
expected to affect taxable  income.  If it is determined  that it is more likely
than not that future tax benefits  associated with a deferred tax asset will not
be realized, a valuation allowance will be provided.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  of a change in the tax rates is recognized in income in
the period that includes the enactment date.

     CTS India is an export  oriented  company  that is  entitled to claim a tax
holiday for a period of five years from April 1996 through March 2001 in respect
to its export  profits.  Under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961,  substantially
all of the earnings of the Company's Indian subsidiary are currently exempt from
Indian Income Tax as profits are  attributable  to export  operations.  However,
since  management  intends to repatriate all accumulated  earnings from India to
the United States,  the Company has provided  deferred U.S.  income taxes on all
undistributed earnings.

 Stock-Based   Compensation.   With  respect  to  stock  options   granted  to
employees,  SFAS No. 123  "Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  permits
companies  to  continue  using  the  accounting  method   promulgated  by  the
Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"),  "Accounting for Stock
Issued to  Employees,"  to  measure  compensation  or to adopt the fair  value
based method  prescribed by SFAS No. 123.  Management  has  determined  not to
adopt the SFAS No. 123's accounting recognition  provisions,  but has included
the required pro forma disclosures.

 Reclassification.  Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the 1998 presentation.

 Recently Issued Accounting Standards.  In March 1998, the American Institute of
Certified Public  Accountants (the "AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP")
98-1,  "Accounting For The Costs of Computer Software  Developed Or Obtained For
Internal Use." SOP 98-1 provides  guidance on costs to be  capitalized  and when
capitalization of such costs should commence. SOP 98-1 applies to costs incurred
after adoption,  including  costs for software  projects that are in progress at
the time of the  adoption.  The Company has  evaluated the impact of this SOP on
its  financial  position and results of operations  and will  implement SOP 98-1
effective  January 1, 1999. The adoption of this  pronouncement  will not have a
material effect on the Company's financial statements.


                                      F-10

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     In April  1998,  the AICPA  issued SOP 98-5,  "Accounting  For The Costs Of
Start-up  Activities." SOP 98-5 requires all costs of start-up  activities to be
expensed as incurred.  SOP 98-5 is effective  for financial  statements  for the
years beginning after December 15, 1998. The adoption of this pronouncement will
not have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 133, "Accounting For Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities".  SFAS
No. 133 is effective  for all fiscal  quarters  for all fiscal  years  beginning
after June 15, 1999  (January 1, 2000 for the  company).  SFAS No. 133  requires
that all  derivative  instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair
value.  Changes in the fair value of  derivatives  are  recorded  each period in
current  earnings  or  other  comprehensive  income,   depending  on  whether  a
derivative is designated as part of a hedge  transaction and, if it is, the type
of hedge transaction.  For fair-value hedge transactions in which the Company is
hedging changes in an asset's,  liability's,  or firm  commitment's  fair value,
changes in the fair value of the derivative  instrument will generally be offset
in the  income  statement  by  changes  in the hedged  item's  fair  value.  For
cash-flow hedge transactions, in which the Company is hedging the variability of
cash  flows  related  to  a  variable-rate  asset,  liability  or  a  forecasted
transaction,  changes in the fair  value of the  derivative  instrument  will be
reported in other  comprehensive  income. The gains and losses on the derivative
instrument that are reported in other comprehensive  income will be reclassified
as earnings in the periods in which earnings are impacted by the  variability of
the cash flows of the hedged item. The ineffective portion of all hedges will be
recognized in current period earnings. The adoption of this pronouncement is not
expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.


3. INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

     On June 24,  1998,  the Company  consummated  its Initial  Public  Offering
("IPO") of 2,917,000  shares of its Common Stock at a price of $10.00 per share,
2,500,000 of which were issued and sold by the Company and 417,000 of which were
sold by Cognizant Corporation  ("Cognizant"),  the Company's then majority owner
and  controlling  parent  company.  The net proceeds to the Company from the IPO
were  approximately  $22.4 million after $845 of direct expenses.  In July 1998,
IMS Health (the accounting  successor to Cognizant) sold 437,550 shares of Class
B Common Stock, which were converted to Class A Common Stock pursuant to an over
allotment  option  granted  to the  underwriters  of the IPO.  Of the  total net
proceeds received by the Company upon the consummation of its IPO, approximately
$6.6 million was used to repay the related party balance then owed to Cognizant.
The related  party balance  resulted  from certain  advances to the Company from
Cognizant  used to  purchase  the  minority  interest  of the  Company's  Indian
subsidiary and to fund payroll and accounts  payable.  Concurrent  with the IPO,
the Company  reclassified the amounts in mandatorily  redeemable common stock to
stockholders'  equity as the redemption feature was voided.  (See Note 8. to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.)


                                      F-11

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


4. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA

Property and Equipment

      Property and equipment consist of the following:

                                     Estimated
                                    Useful Life        December 31
                                                       -----------
                                      (Years)        1998        1997
                                      -------        ----        ----
     Computer equipment and
     purchased software............       3       $ 5,542     $ 4,196
     Furniture and equipment.......     5 - 9       3,044       1,700
     Leasehold improvements........    Various      1,805       1,099
                                                  -------     -------
       Sub-total                                  $10,391     $ 6,995
     Accumulated depreciation 
      and amortization.............                (4,121)     (2,542)
                                                  -------     -------
     Property and Equipment - Net..               $ 6,270     $ 4,453
                                                  =======     =======


Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities

      Accrued expenses and other current liabilities consist of the following:

                                                       December 31,
                                                       ------------
                                                     1998        1997
                                                     ----        ----

Accrued bonuses and commissions............       $ 6,600     $ 2,003
Accrued vacation...........................           800         415
Other......................................         3,807       1,241
                                                  -------     -------
                                                  $11,207     $ 3,659
                                                  =======     =======


5. ACQUISITION OF MINORITY INTEREST

     On July 3, 1997,  the  Company  signed a  memorandum  of  understanding  to
purchase the 24.0% minority interest in CTS India from a third party. On October
31, 1997,  the Company paid $3,468 to the minority  shareholder  increasing  the
Company's ownership in CTS India from 76.0% to 100.0%. The Company accounted for
the  acquisition  of the  minority  interest  using  the  purchase  method.  The
incremental  assets  acquired have been recorded at their fair value at the date
of  acquisition.  The  excess  of  purchase  price  over the  fair  value of the
incremental  net assets  acquired  has been  recorded as  goodwill  and is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a seven year


                                      F-12

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

period.  The  following is a summary of the purchase  price  allocation  for the
acquisition of the minority interest:

     Fair value of assets........................................    $1,727
     Deferred taxes..............................................      (482)
     Goodwill....................................................     2,223
                                                                     -------
     Total purchase price........................................    $3,468
                                                                     ======

     The results of  operations of CTS India have been included in the Company's
operations  since the  acquisition  date.  Had the  acquisition  of the minority
interest taken place on January 1, 1996 or 1997, the results of operations would
not have  reflected  minority  interest  expense  in each  year and  would  have
reflected amortization of the related goodwill of $317 for 1996 and 1997.

6. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

     Beginning in 1997,  certain U.S.  employees of the Company were eligible to
participate in Cognizant's and now IMS Health's 401(k) plan. The Company matches
up to 50.0% of the  eligible  employee's  contribution.  The  amount  charged to
expense  for the  matching  contribution  was $55  and  $15 for the  year  ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Certain of the  Company's  employees  participate  in IMS Health's  defined
benefit  pension plan.  The costs to the Company  recognized  as  postretirement
benefit costs and related liabilities were not material to the Company's results
of operations or financial  position for the years  presented.  (See Note 10. to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.)

     CTS India maintains an employee benefit plan that covers  substantially all
India-based employees. The employees' provident fund, pension and family pension
plans are statutory defined  contribution  retirement  benefit plans.  Under the
plans, employees contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation,  which
is  matched  by  an  equal  contribution  by  CTS  India.  Contribution  expense
recognized was $186, $128 and $73 for the years ended December 31, 1998 1997 and
1996 respectively.

     CTS India also  maintains  a  statutory  gratuity  plan that is a statutory
postemployment benefit plan providing defined lump sum benefits. CTS India makes
annual   contributions  to  an  employees'  gratuity  fund  established  with  a
government-owned  insurance  corporation  to  fund a  portion  of the  estimated
obligation.  The Company estimates its obligation based upon employee salary and
projected  turnover rates.  Expense  recognized by the Company was $135, $94 and
$60 for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



                                      F-13

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

7. INCOME TAXES

     Income (loss) before  provision for income taxes consisted of the following
for years ended December 31:

                                                    1998       1997        1996
                                                    ----       ----        ----

U.S............................................   $(2,862)   $(1,812)    $ (611)
Non-U.S........................................    12,501      3,966      2,086
                                                  -------    -------     -------
Total..........................................   $ 9,639    $ 2,154     $1,475
                                                  =======    =======     =======

     The provision  (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following for the
years ended December 31,

                                                    1998       1997        1996
                                                    ----       ----        ----
U.S. Federal and state:
  Current.......................................  $    75    $  (607)    $ (177)
  Deferred......................................    3,516      1,178        518
                                                  -------    -------     -------
  Total U.S. Federal and state..................  $ 3,591    $   571     $  341
                                                  -------    -------     -------
Non-U.S.:
  Current.......................................  $    20    $    18     $   --
  Deferred......................................       (5)        (8)        --
                                                  -------    -------     -------
  Total non-U.S.................................       15         10         --
                                                  -------    -------     -------
  Total.........................................  $ 3,606    $   581     $  341
                                                  =======    =======     =======


     The following table sets forth the significant differences between the U.S.
federal  statutory  taxes  and the  Company's  provision  for  income  taxes for
consolidated financial statement purposes:

                                                    1998       1997        1996
                                                    ----       ----        ----

Tax expense at statutory rate...................  $ 3,277    $   732     $  502
State and Local Income Taxes....................     (110)        --         --
Goodwill........................................      108         26         --
Effect of minority interest on foreign earnings.       --       (185)      (168)
Other...........................................      331          8          7
                                                  -------    -------     -------
Total Taxes.....................................  $ 3,606    $   581     $  341
                                                  =======    =======     =======




                                      F-14

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     The  Company's  deferred  tax assets  (liabilities)  are  comprised  of the
following at December 31:

                                                           1998       1997
                                                           ----       ----

 Deferred tax assets:
   Net Operating Losses................................  $   940    $     8

 Net deferred tax assets...............................  $   940    $     8

 Deferred tax liabilities:
   Undistributed Indian income.........................   (7,043)    (2,601)

 Total deferred tax liabilities........................   (7,043)    (2,601)
 Net deferred tax liability............................  $(6,103)   $(2,593)
                                                         ========   ========

At December 31, 1998, the Company had $940 of tax credit carryforwards primarily
related to U.S.  Federal net operating  losses,  which expire if not used before
2018.

     CTS India is an export  oriented  company  that is  entitled to claim a tax
holiday for a period of five years from April 1996 through March 2001 in respect
to its  export  profits.  Under the Indian  Income  Tax Act of 1961,  all of the
Company's  earnings are  currently  exempt from Indian Income Tax as profits are
attributable  to  export  operations.   However,  since  management  intends  to
repatriate  all  earnings  from  India to the United  States,  the  Company  has
provided deferred U.S. income taxes on all undistributed  earnings.  The Company
has  determined  that the income  taxes  recorded  by the  Company  would not be
materially different in the absence of the current tax exemption and, therefore,
the tax exemption had no material effect on earnings per share.

8. CAPITAL STOCK

 A. Common  Stock.  On June 12,  1998,  the Company  amended  and  restated  its
certificate of incorporation to authorize  100,000,000  shares of Class A common
stock, par value $.01 per share,  15,000,000 shares of Class B common stock, par
value $.01 per share,  and 15,000,000  shares of preferred stock, par value $.10
per share,  and  effected a 0.65 for one reverse  stock  split.  All  applicable
shares and per share amounts in the accompanying  financial statements have been
retroactively  adjusted  to reflect  this  recapitalization.  Holders of Class A
common  stock have one vote per share and  holders of Class B common  stock have
ten votes per share.  Holders of Class B common  stock are  entitled  to convert
their  shares into Class A common  stock at any time on a share for share basis.
Shares of Class B Common Stock  transferred to  stockholders  of IMS Health in a
transaction intended to be on a tax-free basis (a "Tax-Free Spin-Off") under the
Code shall not convert to shares of Class A Common Stock upon the  occurrence of
such Tax-Free Spin-Off. No preferred stock has been issued.

     Subsequent to the IPO, the  underwriters  exercised their right to purchase
an additional  437,550 shares of Class A Common Stock. As a result,  IMS Health,
the majority  owner and  controlling  parent of the Company,  converted  437,550
shares of Class B Common stock into Class A Common Stock and  subsequently  sold
such shares.

                                      F-15


                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

 B. Redeemable Common Stock. On July 25, 1997, certain  management  employees of
the Company and its affiliates  subscribed  and  subsequently  purchased  Common
Stock under the "Key Employees  Restricted  Stock  Purchase  Plan." These shares
were purchased by the employees at the then estimated fair market value of $3.85
per  share.  Holders of the stock may put,  at any time,  to the  Company  their
shares  at the  lower  of the  purchase  price  or the  share  price  based on a
valuation of the Company at the time of the put. Upon  consummation  of the IPO,
this put right  terminated.  The  Company  initially  recorded  the value of the
purchased stock outside the equity section.  In 1998, upon the completion of the
initial public offering,  all redemption conditions were removed, and the shares
have been reclassified to common stock.

9. EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS PLANS

     In July 1997, CTS adopted a Key Employees  Stock Option Plan which provides
for the grant of stock options to eligible employees. Options granted under this
plan may not be granted at an exercise  price less than fair market value of the
underlying  shares on the date of grant. As a result of the IPO all options have
a life of ten years,  vest  proportionally  over four years and have an exercise
price equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.

     In December 1997, CTS adopted a Non-Employee  Directors' Stock Option Plan,
which  provides for the grant of stock  options to eligible  directors.  Options
granted  under this plan may not be granted at an exercise  price less than fair
market value of the underlying  shares on the date of grant.  As a result of the
IPO all options have a life of ten years, vest proportionally over two years and
have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the common stock on the
grant date.

     In March  1998,  CTS  granted  non-qualified  stock  options to purchase an
aggregate of 48,750 shares to CTS's Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer at an
exercise price of $6.92 per share,  an amount less than the fair market value of
the shares on the date of the grant.

     A summary of the Company's stock option activity,  and related  information
is as follows:


                                      F-16

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     The following  summarizes  information  about the  Company's  stock options
outstanding  and  exercisable  by price  range at  December  31,  1998 and 1997,
respectively:




     For 1998, $122 of compensation cost was recognized by the Company under APB
25. No compensation  cost was recognized by the Company under APB 25 for 1997 or
1996.

     Had compensation cost for the Company's stock-based  compensation plans, as
well as the IMS Health options held by certain executive  officers (See Note 10.
to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements),  been determined based on the fair
value at the grant  dates for awards  under  those  plans,  consistent  with the
method  prescribed  by SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and net income per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                        December 31,
                                                 1998        1997       1996
                                                 ----        ----       ----

 Net income
   As reported...............................   $6,033      $1,028       $642
   Pro forma.................................   $5,671        $778       $608
 As reported
   Net income per share, basic...............    $0.76       $0.16      $0.10
   Net income per share, diluted.............    $0.73       $0.16      $0.10
 Pro forma
   Net income per share, basic...............    $0.71       $0.12      $0.09
   Net income per share, diluted.............    $0.69       $0.12      $0.09


                                      F-17

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     The pro forma disclosures shown above are not representative of the effects
on net income and earnings per share in future years.

     For purposes of pro forma  disclosures only, the fair value for all Company
options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes  option model
with the following weighted average assumptions in 1998; risk-free interest rate
of 5.4 %,  expected  dividend  yield of 0.0%,  expected  volatility of 48.0% and
expected life of 3.6 years. 1997 assumptions:  risk-free  interest rate of 6.3%,
expected dividend yield of 0.0%,  expected volatility of 40.0% and expected life
of 8.7 years. The  weighted-average  fair value of the Company's options granted
was $4.68 during 1998. The weighted-average  fair value of the Company's options
granted was $2.38 during 1997. The assumptions used in 1998 for IMS Health stock
options were:  risk-free interest rate of 5.5%, expected dividend yield of 0.3%,
expected  volatility  of 25.0% and expected life of 3.0 years.  The  assumptions
used in 1997 and 1996 for Cognizant stock options were:  risk-free interest rate
of 5.9%,  expected  dividend  yield of 0.3%,  expected  volatility  of 25.0% and
expected life of 4.5 years.  The weighted average fair value of IMS Health stock
options granted to certain  executive  officers in 1998 was $7.14.  The weighted
average  fair value of  Cognizant  stock  options  granted to certain  executive
officers in 1997 and 1996 was $9.76 and $13.12, respectively.

10. OTHER TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES

 Background.  The  Company  began its  software  development  and  maintenance
services business in early 1994 as an in-house  technology  development center
for The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation and its operating units. These operating
units  principally  included   A.C.Nielsen,   Dun  &  Bradstreet   Information
Services,   Dun  &  Bradstreet   Software,   Erisco,  Inc.   ("Erisco"),   IMS
International,  Inc. ("IMS"), NCH Promotional Services, Inc. ("NCH Promotional
Services"),  Nielsen Media  Research,  Inc.  ("Nielsen Media  Research"),  The
Reuben H. Donnelley Corporation ("RHDonnelley"),  Pilot Software, Inc. ("Pilot
Software")  and  Sales  Technologies,  Inc.  ("Sales  Technologies"),   and  a
majority interest in Gartner Group, Inc. ("Gartner Group").  In November 1996,
the Company,  Erisco,  IMS,  Nielsen Media  Research,  Pilot  Software,  Sales
Technologies and certain other entities,  plus a majority  interest in Gartner
Group, were spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation to form Cognizant,
the then majority owner and controlling  parent of the Company.  At that time,
ACNielsen was separately  spun-off from The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation  and
Dun & Bradstreet Software was sold to GEAC Software.  In 1997,  Cognizant sold
Pilot Software to a third party.

     On January 15, 1998,  Cognizant announced that it would, subject to certain
conditions,  reorganize itself (the  "Reorganization"),  by spinning the Nielsen
Media Research  business from the rest of its businesses,  creating two publicly
traded  companies,  IMS Health  Corporation  ("IMS  Health")  and Nielsen  Media
Research. The reorganization became effective on July 1, 1998. The shares of the
Company previously held by Cognizant are now held by IMS Health and all services
previously  provided to the Company by Cognizant  are now being  provided by IMS
Health.

     In July  1998,  IMS  Health  sold  437,550  shares of Class B Common  Stock
pursuant to an over allotment  option granted to the underwriters of the IPO. As
of December 31, 1998,  IMS Health owned a majority and  controlling  interest in
the outstanding Common Stock of the



                                      F-18

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

Company  and  held  approximately  94.2%  of the  combined  voting  power of the
Company's  Common  Stock.  (See  also  Note  3.  to the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.)

     IMS Health  currently  provides  the Company  with  certain  administrative
services  including payroll and payables  processing,  e-mail,  tax planning and
compliance, and permits the Company to participate in IMS Health's insurance and
employee  benefit  plans.  Costs for these services for all periods prior to the
IPO were  allocated  to the Company  based on  utilization  of certain  specific
services.  All  subsequent  services  were  performed  under the CTS IMS  Health
intercompany  services  agreement.

 Affiliated  Agreements.  In 1997, the Company  entered into various  agreements
with  Cognizant  which were assigned to IMS Health as part of the 1998 spin-off.
The agreements include an Intercompany  Services Agreement for services provided
by IMS Health such as payroll and payables processing,  tax, finance,  personnel
administration, real estate and risk management services, a License Agreement to
use the "Cognizant" trade name and an Intercompany  Agreement.  On July 1, 1998,
IMS Health  transferred  all of its rights to the  "Cognizant"  name and related
trade and service marks to the Company. (See Item 3.)

 Revenues.  In 1996,  the Company  recognized  related party  revenues  totaling
$9,257  including  revenues  from  A.C.Nielsen,  Dun  &  Bradstreet  Information
Services,  Dun &  Bradstreet  Software  and  NCH  Promotional  Services  through
November 1, 1996 (the effective date of the spin-off of Cognizant from The Dun &
Bradstreet  Corporation)  and revenues from Erisco,  IMS, Nielsen Media Research
and Pilot Software are included as related party revenues for the full year.

     In 1997, the Company  recognized  related party revenues  totaling  $10,846
including revenues from Erisco, IMS, Nielsen Media Research, Sales Technologies,
Pilot Software and Gartner Group for the full year.

     In 1998, the Company  recognized  related party revenues  totaling  $13,575
including  revenues from IMS Health,  Nielsen Media  Research  (through June 30,
1998), Sales Technologies and Gartner Group.

 Services.  The Company, IMS Health and Nielsen Media Research have entered into
Master Services Agreements pursuant to which the Company provides IT services to
such subsidiaries.  IMS Health,  Cognizant and The Dun & Bradstreet  Corporation
provided the Company with certain administrative  services,  including financial
planning and  administration,  legal, tax planning and compliance,  treasury and
communications,   and  permitted  the  Company  to  participate  in  Cognizant's
insurance and employee  benefit plans.  Costs for these services for all periods
prior to the IPO were  allocated to the Company based on  utilization of certain
specific  services.  All subsequent  services were  performed  under the CTS IMS
Health  intercompany   services   agreement.   Management  believes  that  these
allocations are  reasonable.  Total costs in connection with these services were
$1,666,  $835,  and $354 for the years ended  December 31, 1998,  1997 and 1996,
respectively.



                                      F-19

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     The Company  financed  the  acquisition  of the  minority  interest and its
operations  through the expansion and contraction of intercompany  balances with
Cognizant,  which were repaid with  proceeds  from the IPO. No interest has been
charged on these transactions.

      Such transactions in 1998, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:

                                          1998       1997       1996
                                          ----       ----       ----


Loans and advances (repayments), net...  $(6,637)   $2,251        $315
Purchase of minority interest..........       --     3,418          --
                                         --------   -------   ---------
Proceeds (to) from related party.......  $(6,637)   $5,669        $315
                                         ========   =======   =========

 Leases.  Beginning January 1, 1997 through December 31, 1998, the Company began
subleasing office space from a subsidiary of IMS Health. The Company made annual
lease payments to the subsidiary of $107 and $99 in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

 Pension  Plans.  Certain  employees of the Company  participate in IMS Health's
defined  benefit  pension plans.  The plans are cash balance pension plans under
which six percent of  creditable  compensation  plus interest is credited to the
employee's retirement account on a monthly basis. The cash balance earns monthly
investment  credits  based on the 30-year  Treasury  bond yield.  At the time of
retirement,  the vested employee's account balance is actuarially converted into
an annuity.  The Company's cost for these plans is included in the allocation of
expense from IMS Health for employee benefits plans.

 Stock Options.  In November 1996, in consideration for services to the Company,
Cognizant  granted an executive  officer and director of the Company  options to
purchase an  aggregate  of 114,900  shares (on a pre-split  basis) of the common
stock of  Cognizant  at an exercise  price of $33.38 per share.  Such  executive
officer and director  agreed to forfeit  options to purchase 58,334 shares (on a
pre-split  basis)  of  Cognizant  common  stock  upon  the  consummation  of the
Company's  initial public  offering.  All remaining such options have since been
converted into options to purchase the common stock of IMS Health as a result of
the  Reorganization  that  occurred  on July 1, 1998.  In July 1998,  IMS Health
granted an executive officer options to purchase an aggregate of 8,158 shares of
the common stock of IMS Health at an exercise price of $30.17 per share.

     In  November  1996,  Cognizant  granted  an  executive  officer  options to
purchase an  aggregate  of 60,000  shares (on a  pre-split  basis) of the common
stock of Cognizant  at an exercise  price of $33.38 per share.  In addition,  in
November  1996,  such  executive  officer  was  granted  options to  purchase an
aggregate  of  20,000  shares  (on a  pre-split  basis) of the  common  stock of
Cognizant at an exercise price of $33.38 per share,  which was equal to the fair
market  value at the grant date,  by paying ten  percent of the option  exercise
price as an advance  payment  toward such  exercise.  All remaining such options
have since been  converted  into  options to  purchase  the common  stock of IMS
Health as a result of the Reorganization that occurred on July 1, 1998.



                                      F-20

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

The  unvested  portion of such  advance  payment  is  refundable  under  certain
conditions.  The remaining 90 percent is payable at exercise.  In July 1998, IMS
Health  granted an executive  officer  options to purchase an aggregate of 9,106
shares of the  common  stock of IMS  Health at an  exercise  price of $30.17 per
share.

11. COMMITMENTS

     The Company  leases  office  space under  operating  leases which expire at
various dates through the year 2007.  Certain leases contain renewal  provisions
and generally require the Company to pay utilities,  insurance, taxes, and other
operating  expenses.  Future minimum rental payments under operating leases that
have initial or  remaining  lease terms in excess of one year as of December 31,
1998 are as follows:

1999............................................................    $1,305
2000............................................................     1,203
2001............................................................     1,052
2002............................................................       789
2003............................................................       546
Thereafter......................................................       139
                                                                    -------
Total minimum lease payments....................................    $5,034
                                                                    =======

     Rental expense totaled  $1,260,  $509 and $241 for years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     At December 31,  1997,  the Company had a letter of credit in the amount of
$725 for the  purchase  of a mainframe  computer.  Subsequent  to year end,  the
letter of credit was paid.

12. CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is involved in various claims and legal actions  arising in the
ordinary course of business.  In the opinion of management,  the outcome of such
claims  and legal  actions,  if decided  adversely,  is not  expected  to have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition and
results of operations.  Additionally,  many of the Company's engagements involve
projects  that are critical to the  operations  of its  customers'  business and
provide  benefits  that are  difficult to quantify.  Any failure in a customer's
computer  system could  result in a claim for  substantial  damages  against the
Company,  regardless of the Company's responsibility for such failure.  Although
the Company  attempts to  contractually  limit its liability for damages arising
from negligent acts,  errors,  mistakes,  or omissions in rendering its software
development  and  maintenance  services,  there  can be no  assurance  that  the
limitations  of liability set forth in its contracts  will be enforceable in all
instances  or will  otherwise  protect the Company from  liability  for damages.
Although  the  Company  has  general  liability  insurance  coverage,  including
coverage for errors or omissions,  there can be no assurance  that such coverage
will  continue to be  available  on  reasonable  terms or will be  available  in
sufficient  amounts to cover one or more large claims,  or that the insurer will
not disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of

                                      F-21

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

one or more large  claims  against the Company that exceed  available  insurance
coverage  or changes in the  Company's  insurance  policies,  including  premium
increases or the imposition of large  deductible or  co-insurance  requirements,
would have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

13. SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The  Company  delivers  full  life  cycle  solutions  to  complex  software
development and maintenance  problems  through the use of a seamless on-site and
offshore   consulting   project  team.  These  solutions   include   application
development  and maintenance  services,  Year 2000 and  Eurocurrency  compliance
services,   testing  and  quality   assurance   services  and   re-hosting   and
re-engineering  services.  The Company has  adopted  SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosures
About Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."  Information about the
Company's operations and total assets in North America,  Europe and Asia for the
three years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:

                                             1998       1997       1996
                                             ----       ----        ----
     REVENUES (1)
     North America.......................  $47,883    $21,217      $9,641
     Europe..............................   10,481      3,177       2,114
     Asia................................      242        350         277
                                           --------  ---------  ----------
     Consolidated........................  $58,606    $24,744     $12,032
                                           ========  =========  ==========

     OPERATING INCOME (1)
     North America.......................   $6,724     $1,685      $1,128
     Europe..............................    2,098        400         303
     Asia................................       96         44          35
                                           --------  ---------  ----------
     Consolidated........................   $8,918     $2,129      $1,466
                                           ========  =========  ==========

     IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS
     North America.......................  $36,294     $9,930      $3,110
     Europe..............................    2,846         60          --
     India...............................   12,539      8,308       4,717
                                           --------  ---------  ----------
     Consolidated........................  $51,679    $18,298      $7,827
                                           ========  =========  ==========


(1) Revenues and resulting operating income are attributed to regions based upon
customer location.

     The  Company,   operating  globally,   provides  software  development  and
maintenance services for medium and large businesses.  North American operations
consist primarily of software development and maintenance consulting services in
the United States and Canada.  European operations consist primarily of software
development  and  maintenance  services  principally  in the United  Kingdom and
Germany.   Asian  operations  consist  primarily  of  software  development  and
maintenance consulting services principally in India.


                                      F-22

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)

     In  1998,  sales to one  related  party  customer  accounted  for  23.2% of
revenues  and two  third  party  customers  accounted  for  12.5%  and  11.3% of
revenues,  respectively.  In 1997, sales to one related party customer accounted
for  44.3% of  revenues  and one third  party  customer  accounted  for 13.9% of
revenues. In 1996 one related party customer accounted for 78.0% of revenues.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)



                                      F-23

                   COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                 (in thousands, except share and per share data)


                   Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                             (Dollars in Thousands)

Accounts Receivable Allowance:

          Balance at      Charged to     Charged to                  Balance at
         Beginning of     Costs and    Other Accounts              End of Period
 Year       Period         Expenses                   Deductions
 1998       $  239           $  45                      $  10          $  274
 1997           --             239                         --             239
 1996           --              --                         --              --




                                      F-24

