Item 1.Business

Acquisition of Enterprise Business

In October 2014, Zebra acquired the Enterprise business (“Enterprise”) from Motorola Solutions, Inc. (“MSI”), excluding its iDEN, or
Integrated Digital Enhanced Network Business, for $3.45 billion in cash (the “Acquisition”). Enterprise is an industry leader in mobile computing and advanced data capture technologies and services, which complement Zebra’s printing
and RFID products. Its products include rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computers; laser imaging and radio frequency identification based data capture products; wireless LAN (“WLAN”) solutions and software; and applications that are
associated with these products and services.

The Acquisition expanded Zebra’s product line with complementary products that together are employed by
customers to obtain greater visibility and insight into their operations. It enables us to deliver end-to-end solutions supporting the Internet of Things (“IoT”) in targeted industries. The Acquisition strengthened our global reach. We
believe that the greater real-time capabilities of the combined company will make Zebra a more valued strategic vendor to our customers, as well as a more important supplier of products and solutions to our channel partners.







Similar to Zebra’s business, Enterprise’s products and services are sold to a wide range of enterprise
customers, including those in the retail, hospitality, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, warehouse and distribution centers, energy and utilities, education and healthcare industries.

Zebra funded the Acquisition through a combination of foreign cash on hand of $250 million, the sale of 71⁄4% senior notes due 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $1.05 billion (the “Notes”), and a new credit agreement with various lenders that provided a term loan of $2.2 billion (the “Term
Loan”). The new credit agreement also included a revolving credit facility providing $250 million (the “Revolving Facility”; and, together with the Notes and the Term Loan, the “Debt Agreements”).

Integration of Enterprise Business

We commenced
integration planning soon after announcing the Acquisition in April 2014. Prior to closing, integration activities focused on understanding the carve-out of Enterprise from MSI. We needed to understand the systems and operations requirements of
Enterprise and ensure that we had appropriate systems and personnel in place to handle Enterprise requirements. After closing the Acquisition, integration activities have focused on creating one Zebra by integrating the operations of Enterprise with
Zebra to create a single business with common sales, marketing, finance, supply chain and other functions. Over the next few years, the integration will transform how we operate. Our priorities have centered on maintaining business and customer
continuity while identifying and accelerating synergies and integrating organizations, processes and systems. As part of integration, we have been undergoing organizational review that involves a talent selection process that we expect to complete
over the course of 2015.

To leverage our ability to deliver end-to-end solutions, we are creating a unified go-to-market strategy. This involves an
evaluation of the current channel programs for Enterprise and Zebra along with understanding our new capabilities for delivering value directly to end users. For the near term, we foresee continuing with separate channel partner programs with
differing program requirements until we are able to redesign our channel programs to best address the combined organization.

As part of the Acquisition,
Zebra acquired a new enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system that Enterprise uses for its operations and financial reporting. Until such time as Zebra is able to move onto a single ERP system, Zebra and Enterprise will be operating on
separate ERP systems. In the interim, Zebra is implementing processes to address the multiple ERP systems and investigating the appropriate path to having a unified ERP system.

Another key focus of the post-closing integration activities relates to transitioning off of MSI-provided transition services related primarily to information
technology. These services are an interim measure to facilitate the integration of Enterprise and enable us to continue operating Enterprise without disruption.

The remaining discussion of the “Business” section in this Annual Report addresses the way we currently operate. We expect that the continuing
integration of Enterprise will significantly impact most of these processes in future periods.

The Company

Zebra is a global leader respected for innovation and reliability. We offer products and services that give organizations greater visibility and insights into
their operations, which we call Enterprise Asset Intelligence. Our products and services allow our customers to manage their assets, transactions and people more effectively, and thereby improve their operational efficiency, deliver a better
customer experience, provide more effective security and achieve other objectives of their organization. We provide products and services in approximately 100 countries, with 122 facilities and approximately 6,800 employees worldwide.

We design, manufacture and sell a broad range of products, including: enterprise mobile computers; advanced data capture devices such as laser, 2D and RFID
scanners and readers; WLAN products; specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification; real-time location systems; related supplies such as self-adhesive labels; and utilities, frameworks and application software. Retailers,
manufacturers, transportation and logistics companies, governments, healthcare institutions and other organizations around the world use our devices in solutions for automatic identification of assets, data collection and personal identification.







We believe strong underlying technology trends support growth in our industry and the further adoption of our
products and solutions. Global competitive forces continue to drive enterprises to improve workflow and deliver better service to their customers. The broad availability of wireless and Internet connectivity supports the adoption and deployment of
Zebra mobile computers, data capture devices and printers to enable organizations to collect more data in real time on the location, movement and condition of their assets. This information, which is generated with the increasing use of barcodes,
RFID and other sensors, can help enterprises make smarter business decisions. Organizations are increasingly taking advantage of cloud computing for data analysis, as well as device management with solutions supported by the IoT. Zebra is well
positioned to benefit from the further adoption of mobility, cloud computing, and IoT.

Acquisitions (other than the Acquisition of the Enterprise
Business)

Laserband Acquisition– In July 2012, Zebra acquired LaserBand LLC. LaserBand is a leader in patient identification wristbands
and related products. LaserBand strengthens Zebra’s product and patent portfolio and enables Zebra to offer a wider array of products to hospitals, healthcare organizations and other customers that use wristbands in their operations.

Hart Systems Acquisition– In December 2013, Zebra acquired Hart Systems, a leading provider of self-directed physical inventory management
solutions to the retail industry. Hart has distinguished itself in the market by offering retailers high ROI, self-managed inventory solutions. This acquisition enables us to expand our presence in the retail market segment by offering additional
inventory management services as part of Zebra’s dedicated retail solutions. It adds software as a service (SaaS) to Zebra’s product portfolio.

Discontinued Operations

Sale of Navis, LLC- On
March 18, 2011, we sold our Navis marine terminal solutions business and the related WhereNet marine terminal solutions product line of our Zebra Enterprise Solutions business to Cargotec Corporation.

Sale of proveo AG- On August 3, 2011, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with F Two NV and sold all of our interest in Zebra Enterprise
Solutions GmbH (formerly proveo AG) business. proveo AG provided integrated aviation solutions to help optimize motorized ground support equipment and other mobile assets in airport terminal areas.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, Zebra reported the results of these businesses as discontinued operations. The amounts presented in Zebra’s
financial statements for discontinued operations include Navis and proveo assets and liabilities, and the operating results of these businesses for 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010. With the sale of Navis, we integrated the remaining ZES business into our
Location Solutions operations.

Continuing Operations

Commencing with the acquisition of Enterprise in October 2014, our continuing operations consist of two segments – (1) Enterprise, comprised of our
mobile computing, data capture, and WLAN products and (2) Legacy Zebra, comprised of barcode and card printing, location and motion sensing and supplies products.

Enterprise

Mobile Computing:We design,
manufacture and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products in a variety of specialized form factors and features for specific enterprise applications. These specialized computers are used in industrial applications including
inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers; field mobility applications including field service, post and parcel and direct store delivery; and customer facing applications including mobile point of sale and staff communication. Our
products incorporate both Android and Microsoft operating systems and support local- and wide-area voice and data communications. Our mobile computing products often incorporate barcode scanning, global position system (GPS) and RFID features. We
also provide related accessories and software applications.

Data Capture:We produce a wide variety of barcode scanners, RFID readers and image
capture devices. Our portfolio of barcode scanning products includes fixed, handheld and embedded OEM modules, in both laser scanners and imagers. The devices collect and decode barcodes and transmit the resulting data to enterprise systems. Our
RFID line of data capture products is focused on ultra-high frequency (UHF) technology. These RFID devices comply with the electronic product code global Generation 2 UHF standard and similar standards around the world. We also provide related
accessories and software for our data capture products.







Wireless LAN:We sell WLAN switches, controllers and access points to provide wireless broadband and WLAN
capabilities primarily to customers in retail, transportation and logistics and hospitality enterprises. We optimize the architecture of these solutions to minimize the resources required for installation and maintenance.

Legacy Zebra

Barcode and Card Printing:We design our printers to produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. Our customers use our printers in a wide range of applications, including routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction
processing, personal identification and product authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, where speed, reliability and durability are critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets for improved
customer service and productivity gains. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification (state identification cards and drivers licenses, healthcare IDs), access control and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards) by
financial institutions. Our RFID printer/encoders are used to print and encode passive RFID labels. We also provide related accessories and software to our data capture products.

Location and Motion Sensing:Zebra offers a range of solutions and services that provide visibility into the location and movement of a business’
personnel and assets with real-time locating systems. Zebra’s Location Solutions incorporates active RFID and other tracking technologies with software and services that offer benefits to users over systems using other technologies. The
benefits of Zebra’s active RFID hardware include delivering high levels of location accuracy and the ability to be deployed indoors. Our software and hardware locate, track, manage, and optimize the utilization of high-value assets, equipment,
and people. Zebra provides substantially all elements of the location solution, including asset tags, call tags, sensors, exciters and application software. The complementary technologies in our location solutions work seamlessly together to provide
customers with asset visibility, tracking, and motion monitoring.

Applications for our location solutions span a broad array of industries where tracking
assets, transactions and people are critical. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in industrial manufacturing, process industries, aerospace, transportation and logistics and healthcare environments. Sports teams are increasingly using our
Zebra MotionWorks sports solution to track the movement of players in real time on the field of play and in practice.

Supplies:We produce stock
and customized thermal labels, wristbands, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra supports its printing products, its resellers and its end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies
optimized to a particular end user’s needs. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra branded supplies with its printing equipment. Zebra also provides a family of self-laminating wristbands for use in laser printers. These wristbands are
marketed under the LaserBand name. Zebra operates supplies production facilities located in the United States and Western Europe. We supplement our in-house production capabilities with those of third-party manufacturers to offer Genuine Zebra
supplies, principally in Asia.

Service and Software

Each of our segments – Enterprise and Legacy Zebra – sells services and software that complement our hardware products described above.

Service:We provide maintenance, product support and repair services at our repair centers around the globe. Where appropriate, we also work with our
network of resellers who may provide maintenance service, either directly or through independent service agents, to extend the geographic reach of maintenance and repair services. We also perform network integration, network and device management,
as well as mobility consulting. Our expanded product line and services operations, which we acquired in the Enterprise Acquisition, increases our capability to provide services to our global customer base.

Software:Zebra’s software products enhance our customers’ ability to integrate, operate and manage their Zebra devices as well as gain
visibility into their increasingly complex value chains, all to achieve improved management over their assets, people and transactions. We offer design and integration software, which is specifically designed to optimize the performance of Zebra
label and card printers. We also offer a portfolio of software applications, utilities and platforms to enable optimal use of our devices, to assist in application development and integration, and to allow the management of devices and applications.
Software for mobile computers, data capture devices and WLAN products include support for native operating systems, HTML5 application development frameworks, push-to-talk (“PTT”) technology, voice-over-IP (“VoIP”), device
management, and custom applications. We use connectivity, mobility and IoT technologies delivered via packaged, on-premise software products, as well as through Software as a Service (“SaaS”), Platform as a Service (“PaaS”), and
Hardware as a Service (“HaaS”) models. Our software products include Zatar, a cloud-based service that makes it easy for businesses to adopt and use an IoT solution in their operations.







Zebra connectivity solutions include support for Ethernet, 802.11a/b/g/n, and Bluetooth®. We support integration with multiple device operating systems, such as Android™, iOS, Linux, Microsoft®Windows®and UNIX. We have programs supporting the development of application software from independent third parties, as well as the integration of Zebra devices in systems developed by independent
software vendors (ISVs).

Our Competitive Strengths

The following are our core competitive strengths that we believe enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors:

An industry leader focused solely on Enterprise Asset Intelligence

We focus on seven key technologies of Enterprise Asset Intelligence: (1) mobile computing, (2) barcode and card printing, (3) data capture,
(4) RFID, (5) location and motion sensing; (6) cloud-based device management, and (7) WLAN. We believe we are the only pure play Enterprise Asset Intelligence supplier in the world.

High entry and switching barriers

We have deep
and long-standing relationships with end customers for our products and services, and with our channel partners on a global basis. We believe a significant portion of our products are deployed in applications that are focused on rugged or
semi-rugged environments, with specialized product performance requirements. These characteristics provide high switching barriers for our products.

Depth and breadth of products and services for delivering end-to-end solutions

We are able to deliver full end-to-end solutions across targeted industries, with a broad portfolio of products and our wide network of business and reseller
partners.

Strong brands with multiple growth opportunities

We have strong brands in our relevant markets, and are well positioned to benefit from attractive global and secular trends in, including, mobility computing,
data sensing, tracking and capturing devices, secure wireless networks, cloud-based applications and edge sensor analytics.

Highly diversified
business mix

We are highly diversified across business segments, end markets, geographies, customers and suppliers. Additionally, we have strong
recurring business in services and supplies driven by an extensive installed worldwide base of products.

Global reach

We sell to customers in approximately 100 countries around the world. This global presence gives us the capability to supply our customers with products,
solutions and services no matter the location of their operations.

Scale advantages

We believe the size and scope of our operations, including product development, distribution and procurement capabilities, give us advantages over our
competitors. We believe we have the largest installed base of products, compared with other companies in our industry. These characteristics allow us to achieve economies of scale and develop industry-leading solutions.

Our Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to
deliver compelling value propositions and solutions, including IoT solutions, to our customers in Enterprise Asset Intelligence by leveraging and expanding our engineering, product development and distribution capabilities and best-in-class
offerings. The following are key elements to our strategy for achieving this objective:

Capitalize on attractive longer-term secular growth trends

We intend to fuel long-term growth by capitalizing on transformational secular trends, particularly in mobility, the cloud and IoT. We expect to
extend our leadership in mobile computing by delivering innovative solutions that increase productivity and revenues for customers through untethering their workforce. We intend to drive new business models and revenue streams for customers through
delivering solutions that seamlessly integrate smart devices with cloud-based software applications. Finally, we will capitalize on the accelerating IoT trend by providing solutions that take advantage of proliferation of data from smart connected
devices to drive increased visibility into customer operations.







Build upon and extend our leadership position in Enterprise Asset Intelligence

We intend to continue to deliver best-in-class offerings in core barcode, RFID and mobile computing and data capture solutions and use our product, services
and distribution capabilities to offer an expanded set of solutions that provide increased visibility into customer operations. We intend to accelerate penetration of the industries and geographies we serve through the continued development of
compelling Enterprise Asset Intelligence solutions, and by taking advantage of global channel relationships and industry leadership.

Provide
customers with highly differentiated solutions that deliver compelling value

We intend to develop and use our knowledge and expertise of our
customers’ industries and account relationships to drive customer-focused innovations in product and service offerings. Our sales and product development teams focus on delivering integrated end-to-end solutions that take advantage of our full
suite of product and service offerings. We aim to provide differentiated solutions by:

•strengthening “premiumness” against hardware-centric competitors through increasing “beyond the box” value propositions (e.g., software, services, supplies);

•expanding into underpenetrated markets by delivering disruptive XaaS business model solutions (e.g., Hart Systems hardware / software-as-a-service physical inventory solution); and

•investing in a broader set of technologies that help customers unlock and create new value through gaining greater real-time visibility and insights into their operations.

Leverage unmatched scale and scope advantages to accelerate share gain

We aim to capture a significant share of the Enterprise Asset Intelligence industry through leveraging transformative scale advantage and by outdistancing
competition through a broad portfolio of best-in-class products, research and development scale, go-to-market reach and global footprint.

Increase
speed and trajectory of expanding profitability

We intend to improve profit margins through operational excellence, cost reductions and operating
efficiencies derived from business process improvement activities and integration of Enterprise. We also intend to increase profitability through delivering innovative end-to-end solutions that provide significant value to customers.

Competition

We operate in a highly competitive
environment. Competitive pressures on companies worldwide, growth in the number of mobile workers globally, industry consolidation and trends in technology are some of the factors that are creating business opportunities for established and new
competitors.

Key competitive factors include the design, breadth and quality of products and services, product performance, product and service
availability, warranty coverage, brand recognition, company relationships with customers and go-to-market channel partners and company reputation. We believe Zebra competes effectively with respect to these factors.

Many companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of mobile computing devices, barcode and card printers, data capture solutions, WLAN and
location systems.

Mobile Computing

Competitors in
mobile computing include companies that have historically served enterprises with ruggedized devices. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of devices for broader consumer and commercial applications,
including notebook computers and tablets, smart phones, cordless phones, and cellular/WLAN/wired infrastructure equipment.

We face competition in our
mobile computing products and WLAN products and solutions from many companies, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Apple, Aruba, Cisco, Bluebird, Datalogic, HP, Honeywell, Panasonic, Ruckus and Samsung.

Data Capture

Competition is robust among suppliers of
data capture products. Each company seeks to provide a broad portfolio of barcode scanning products that are suitable for the majority of global market needs. In addition, we also compete against several smaller segment-focused competitors, which
focus on limited product subsets or specific regional strengths. These competitors include Code Corporation, Fujian Newland, and Opticon. We provide competitive scanning products based distinct technologies – flying spot lasers, area
(2D) imagers, and linear (1D) imagers. This diversity is required to meet a variety of customer needs.







We also offer a broad portfolio of both fixed and hand-held UHF (Ultra High Frequency) RFID readers, which are
based on the Electronic Product Code (“EPC”) standard. Competition in this product segment remains highly fragmented.

Barcode and Card
Printing

We consider our direct competition in printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, RFID
printer/encoders, and mobile printers. Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available processes used to personalize cards. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture
and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing, as well as card printers based on ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye
sublimation printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than we are. In addition,
service bureaus, which provide centralized services, compete for end-user business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

We face competition in our printing products from many printer companies, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Argox; Avery Dennison;
Bixolon; Blue Bamboo; Boca Systems; Brother International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; Cognitive TPG; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid Company; Epson; Evolis; Fargo Electronics, a unit of HID Global; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi;
Honeywell International Inc.; Lexmark International; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS Technologies; Nisca; Oki Data; Olympus; Practical Automation; Printronix; Sato; Seiko Instruments; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Star Micronics; Taiwan
Semiconductor; Toshiba TEC; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox.

Location Solutions

We compete with a diverse group of companies marketing location solutions that are primarily based on active RFID technologies. These competitors include
Aeroscout, Ekahau, Ubisense, Nebusens, Prozone, ZXY Sport Tracking, Sportsvision, IsoLynx, GE Healthcare, Versus Technology, Mojix, Impinj, Alien Technology, ThingMagic, TeleTracking Technologies, ARISTA, Centrak, Plus Location Systems and STATS
LLC.

Supplies

The supplies business is highly
fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area. We focus our supplies business primarily on providing differentiated products, which have unique performance characteristics, backed
by reliable service.

Customers

Zebra’s
customers are diversified across a wide variety of industries, including retail, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, and healthcare industries. Over the past three years, we had three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of its
sales. All three of these customers are distributors and not end users. No end customers account for 10% or more of net sales during these years.



Year Ended December 31,201420132012Customer A17.1%16.8%20.4%Customer B12.2%13.1%11.4%Customer C10.5%12.3%10.3%

Sales and Marketing

Sales.We sell our products and solutions primarily through distributors (two-tier distribution), VARs, independent software vendors, direct marketers,
and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). We also sell our products directly to a select number of named customer accounts through our in-house sales force. Distributors purchase, stock and sell a variety of AIDC components from
different manufacturers and sell to VARs, thereby increasing the distribution of our products. VARs customize systems for end-user applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Some OEMs resell the Zebra-manufactured
products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. VARs, OEMs and systems integrators provide customers with a variety of AIDC hardware, accessories, application software, and systems integration expertise. Because these sales
channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration and support services to end users within various industry segments, these relationships allow us to reach







customers around the world. We experience a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and industry served. We believe that the breadth of our distributor, VAR and
OEM channel network, both in terms of variety of channel and extent of geographic reach, enhances our ability to compete and to effectively offer our solutions to a greater number of end users.

Marketing.Our marketing function aligns closely with sales and product management functions to deliver solutions that address the business needs of
our customers and partners. Our marketing operations encompass global corporate marketing, field marketing, solutions marketing, product marketing, industry marketing, business intelligence, global demand center and channel marketing functions. Our
corporate marketing function manages our global Zebra brand, corporate public relations, industry analyst relations, internal communications and crisis communications. Field marketing encompasses regional demand generation, channel program
management and marketing and sales enablement. Our solutions marketing function includes product and industry marketing. Business intelligence focuses on market analysis, positioning and competitive analysis. Our global demand center leads content
development and digital marketing, including our corporate website and social media. Our global channel team executes the corporate go-to-market strategy by building partner loyalty and attracting emerging partners.

Manufacturing and Outsourcing

Final assembly of our
hardware products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. The manufacturing facility of our printers is located in China. Our mobile computing and data capture products are primarily produced in facilities located in Brazil, Israel,
Mexico and China. We also use the services of joint design manufacturers (JDMs) for certain products. These manufacturers produce our products to our design specifications in the quantities we order. We maintain control over portions of the supply
chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of key components. The manufacturers purchase the components and subassemblies used in the production of our products. The majority of our products are shipped to our regional distribution
centers. A portion of products are reconfigured at our distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging and customer specific customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance
with procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United States government.

Research and
Development

Zebra devotes significant resources developing new innovative solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our products and services
maintain high levels of reliability and value to our customers. Research and development expenditures for 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $151.1 million, $91.1 million and $87.4 million, respectively, or 9.0% of net sales for 2014, and 8.8% of net sales in
each of 2013 and 2012. Following the Acquisition, Zebra has more than 1,700 product development engineers worldwide focused on strengthening and broadening the already extensive product platform of the combined business.

Our Technology

Zebra’s mobile computing products
incorporate a wide array of advanced technologies and sensors in rugged, ergonomic enclosures to meet the needs of specific use cases. These devices couple industry-standard operating systems with specialized hardware and software features to
satisfy a customer’s mission-critical applications. Purpose-built rugged housings ensure reliable operations, surviving years of rough handling and harsh environments. Specialized features such as advanced data capture technologies, voice and
video collaboration tools and advanced battery technologies enable our customers to work more efficiently and better serve their customers. A broad portfolio of accessories further tailors mobile computers to meet a wide variety of enterprise needs.
Zebra mobile computers are offered with software tools and services that support application development, device configuration and field support to facilitate smooth and rapid deployment and ensure maximum customer return on investment.

Zebra’s advanced data capture products allow the rapid and accurate capture of business critical information simply, quickly, and accurately –
enabling critical visibility into business processes and providing key metrics for enterprise operations. These products include barcode scanners in a variety of form factors, including handheld scanners, presentation scanners, and standalone
engines designed for integration into third-party devices. These scanners incorporate a variety of technologies – area imagers, linear imagers, and lasers – to read linear and two-dimensional barcodes. They are used in a broad range of
applications, ranging from supermarket checkout to industrial warehouse optimization to patient management in hospitals. The design of these products reflects the diverse needs of these markets, with different ergonomics, multiple communication
protocols, and varying levels of ruggedness.







Zebra’s RFID readers use passive ultra-high frequency (UHF) to provide high speed, non-line of sight data
capture, reading data from hundreds or thousands of RFID tags in near real time. Using the EPC (Electronic Product Code) standard, our customers take advantage of RFID technology across multiple industries to track high-value assets, monitor
shipments, and drive increased retail sales though improved inventory accuracy. Zebra also offers mobile computers that support high frequency (HF) near-field communications (NFC), and low frequency (LF) radio technologies.

Zebra’s WLAN products provide the wireless backbone throughout an enterprise. Built upon industry standard Wi-Fi protocols, our products are
differentiated by massive scalability, enhanced capacity controls, site survivability, comprehensive security and location-based services for enterprises. Zebra’s WiNG 5 technology enables geographically distributed enterprises to rapidly
deploy controller-less WLAN solutions at multiple branch locations for corporate and guest access, all managed centrally. Integrated network, RF management, and application services at the edge allow an enterprise to prioritize mission critical or
latency sensitive traffic like voice and video and provide proactive assurance for the wireless network. Network security brings a comprehensive threat library to protect the network from a broad spectrum of intruders. Device management protocols
allow a single network infrastructure to onboard mobile users, campus and remote employees, authorized visitors and guest users bringing their own devices.

All Zebra printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical
printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate. Thermal printing benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations, yet it is flexible enough to support a wide range of specialty label materials and associated inks.
Our dye-sublimation thermal card printers produce full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, and on-demand photographs. Our printers also incorporate
RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband.

Zebra’s printers integrate
company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current
electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, Bluetooth, or 802.11 wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language
such as Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II®), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer
systems.

Our Real Time Locating System (“RTLS”) solutions, which use active RFID technologies, extend Zebra’s reach by employing
technologically advanced hardware and software solutions to locate, track, manage and optimize high-value assets, equipment and people. We offer a range of scalable RTLS technologies that generate accurate, on-demand information about the physical
location and status of high-valued assets. Customers benefit by utilizing the choice or combination of asset tracking products that can be “application matched” based on ISO/IEC 24730-2, Cisco CCX Wi-Fi, precision GPS, and ultra wideband
(UWB) technologies. In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure products that receive tag transmissions and provide location and motion calculations, database and system management functions and asset visibility. The flexible
infrastructure supports large tag populations and coverage areas that can range from small to large.

Zebra’s supplies business includes labels,
receipts, ribbons, plastic cards and wristbands suitable for use with Zebra’s printers, and also wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. Our wristbands incorporate multi-layer form technology to ensure trouble-free
printing, wearer comfort, and reliable barcode reading, even when exposed to harsh chemical environments. Zebra offers many thermal label, card, and receipt materials, and matching ribbons, for diverse applications that may require chemical
resistance, temperature extremes, abrasion, exceptional image quality, or long life.

Intellectual Property

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and contractual rights to establish and protect its innovations, and holds a
large portfolio of U.S. and foreign registered intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2014, such portfolio consisted of more than 800 trademark registrations, 500 trademark applications, 3,100 patents and 1,100 patent applications.

We believe that our intellectual property will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage
for future technologies. We also believe that we are not dependent upon any single patent or select group of patents. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technical leadership and marketing abilities. Although we
do not rely only on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; we will enforce our intellectual property rights when and where appropriate.







Employees

As of January 31, 2015, Zebra employed approximately 6,800 persons, of which 740 were corporate employees. Some portions of our business, primarily in
Europe and China, are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from those in the United States. In Europe, for example, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as compensation, benefits,
restructurings and layoffs. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good.

Regulatory Matters

Wireless Regulatory Matters

Our business is
subject to certain wireless regulatory matters.

The use of wireless voice, data and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is
regulated by government agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal
entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international
coordination under the International Telecommunications Union. We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios and portable or hand held
devices. Consequently, our results of operations could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time to time by the FCC, NTIA or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and
unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities, and consequently, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current
spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.

Other Regulatory Matters

Some of our operations
use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and
disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. During 2014, compliance
with U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment did not have a material effect on our business or results of operations.

Contact Information

Zebra Technologies is a Delaware
corporation. Our principal offices are located at 475 Half Day Road, Suite 500, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069. Our main telephone number is +1 (847) 634-6700, and our primary Internet Web site address iswww.zebra.com. You can find all of
Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing. During the second quarter of 2015, our principal offices will move to Three Overlook Point, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069

Additional Information

For financial information
regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.



