Item 1.Business

The Company

Zebra is a global leader respected for innovation and reliability. Zebra provides enabling technologies that allow customers to take smarter
actions. Our extensive portfolio of bar code, receipt, card, kiosk and RFID printers and supplies, as well as real-time location solutions give a digital voice to assets, people and transactions that provides greater visibility into
mission-critical information.

We design, manufacture and sell specialty printing devices that print variable information on demand at the
point of issuance. These devices are used worldwide by manufacturers, service and retail organizations and governments for automatic identification, data collection and personal identification in applications that improve productivity, deliver
better customer service and provide more effective security. Our product range consists of direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, passive radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders and dye sublimation card
printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other accessories, including software for label design and printer network management.

In 2007 and 2008, we acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, Navis Holdings, LLC and Multispectral Solutions, Inc. These companies comprised the
former Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ZES), through which we offered asset tracking and management solutions to optimize the flow of goods in complex logistical operations. These acquisitions provided us with new technologies to offer our
customers, including active RFID, global positioning systems (GPS), telematics and ultra wideband radio (UWB) technologies. These solutions incorporate battery-powered wireless tags, fixed-position







antennae, transponder modules and application software. We also provide consulting services, maintenance contracts and software licenses related to these solutions.

Discontinued Operations

Sale of
Navis, LLC- On March 18, 2011, we sold our Navis marine terminal solutions business and the related WhereNet marine terminal solutions product line of our ZES business to Cargotec Corporation. Zebra has a short-term receivable from the
buyer which represents funds held in escrow that are subject to adjustment according to terms of the agreement.

Sale of proveo AG- On
August 3, 2011, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with F Two NV (a Belgium company) to sell all of our interest in Zebra Enterprise Solutions GmbH (formerly proveo AG) business.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, Zebra reported the results of these businesses as discontinued operations. The amounts presented in Zebra’s financial statements for discontinued operations
include Navis and proveo assets and liabilities, and the operating results of these businesses for 2011, 2010 and 2009. With the Navis sale, Zebra integrated the former ZES Location Solutions product line. The reporting of separate business segments
is no longer required.

Continuing Operations

Zebra’s continuing operations include our printer business and our integrated location solutions business.

Zebra’s printer operations

We design our printer products to operate at the point of
issuance to produce high-quality labels, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using our printer products for barcoding and personal identification includes routing and tracking, patient safety,
transaction processing, and identification and authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, where speed, reliability and durability are critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where
improved customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for using our on demand receipt printers. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification, access control and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM
cards) by financial institutions.

Applications for our printing technology span most industries and geographies. They include inventory
control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file management systems, patient barcode wrist banding, medical specimen labeling, shop floor control,
in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2011, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than 10,600,000 printers to customers around the world.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security, reduce costs, more effectively manage assets, improve quality, deliver
better customer service, and increase productivity support the adoption of the printing and automatic identification applications Zebra provides. These solutions deliver significant and predictable economic benefits. Industry-mandated compliance
requirements for bar code labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the deployment of these systems. Many of Zebra’s applications enhance the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement systems in
manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened concern over safety and security are also increasing the use of automatic identification systems. Still
other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and security
and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems for driver’s licenses, employee
and visitor badges, national identification cards, event passes, club membership cards and keyless entry systems. Financial institutions utilize card printers for credit, debit and ATM cards.

Our printers are used to print bar code labels, receipts, plastic identification cards, wristbands, and tags and to encode passive RFID “smart” labels and cards. We also sell related specialty
labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code label design and network management software. These products are used to support bar code labeling, personal identification, and specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing
supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of the economy. We work closely with distributors, value-added resellers, kiosk manufacturers and end users of our products to design and implement printing solutions that meet their technical
demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for specific applications. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock,
ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of printing solutions for particular applications.







We produce the industry’s broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal
printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product offering is a unique and significant competitive strength.

Of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, we believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies
are best suited for most bar code labeling and other on-demand printing applications. Thermal transfer printing produces durable dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images
can be printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix bar code labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited
where ease of use, smaller size and cost are important factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s mobile and desktop units.

As of December 31, 2011, we offered 58 thermal printer models with numerous variations, in eight categories as follows:



•Performance tabletop printers for applications requiring continuous operation in high output, mission-critical and industrial settings.

•Mid-range tabletop printers, which are designed for demanding commercial applications.

•Desktop printers to deliver value and performance in applications with lower volume or space restrictions.

•Mobile printers to meet the printing needs of mobile workers in a broad range of industries.

•Print engines, which are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID
smart label capabilities.

•Kiosk and ticket printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications.

•Card printers, which print and encode national identity cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, gift cards, personalized cards
and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards).

•RFID printer/encoders for passive high frequency and ultra-high frequency radio frequency identification in the retail supply chain, for defense
logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these
transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic
identification applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be provided
with traditional off-site printing.

Zebra’s Location Solutions

Businesses demand real-time responses to real-world events that impact their operations and business results. Zebra Location Solutions offer a range of solutions and services that enable businesses to
have complete visibility of its edge level process, including personnel and assets.

Zebra Location Solutions extend Zebra’s reach far
beyond the abilities of passive RFID. Its state-of-the-art software and hardware locate, track, manage, and maximize the utilization of high-value assets, equipment, and people. Whether tracking containers through a supply chain, work in progress,
optimizing manufacturing fulfillment, or providing wide-area asset traceability, real time location solutions from Zebra provide constant visibility.

Zebra Location Solutions include asset tags, call tags, sensors, exciters and application software. Each tag contains a unique ID that users can associate to a specific asset, part, or workstation. The
complementary technologies in a Zebra location solution seamlessly work together to provide customers with asset visibility and tracking.

Applications for Zebra Location Solutions span a broad array of industries where tracking assets, transactions and people are critically important. Zebra
Location Solutions are deployed in industrial manufacturing, process industry, aerospace, transportation and logistics and healthcare.

Printer Supplies

Supplies products
consist of stock and customized thermal labels, wristbands, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its printing equipment.

Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a
particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform. These printing solutions







frequently include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed to optimize image resolution and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application
performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches, smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are
not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade image quality, and decrease the life of key printer components such as printheads.

Printer Related Software

Zebra has specialized printer management, label design and driver solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. The ZebraLink Solutions suite of networking, software, firmware offerings,
combined with the enhanced printer management capabilities of ZebraNet™ Bridge, makes Zebra’s printers easy to use and integrate into small, medium and enterprise-wide environments. Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels
of functionality to all major computer network and software systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11b/g and
Bluetooth®.

Zebra offers label design and integration software specifically designed to optimize the performance of Zebra bar code label printers. Zebra’s suite of label design and printer configuration tools
includes ZebraDesigner™, ZebraDesigner™ Pro, ZebraDesigner™ for XML, and ZebraDesigner™ Label Design Software for use with mySAP™ Business Suite. Zebra’s Enterprise Connector Solution for Oracle®Business Intelligence Publisher™, delivers seamless integration between Oracle and Zebra printers, creating a
versatile, easily managed, cost-effective printing platform.

Printer Maintenance and Services

Zebra provides depot maintenance and repair services at repair centers in Vernon Hills, Illinois; Etobicoke, Ontario, Canada; Mexico City, Mexico;
Preston, U.K.; Singapore; Shanghai, China; and Heerenveen, Netherlands. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, Zebra offers on-site repair services for tabletop
printers in the United States. Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides technical support from in-house support
personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. For most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet atwww.zebra.com, 24 hours per day, seven days per week.

Printer Warranties

In general, Zebra
provides warranty coverage of one year on printers against defects in material and workmanship. Printheads are warranted for nine months, and batteries are warranted for twelve months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and
workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair or replacement during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s Technology

Our customers
rely on Zebra to provide products and systems to help identify, authenticate, track or route both items and people, and then process the related transactions. These products and systems use technologies that provide specific benefits in each
application.

All Zebra printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology, either direct thermal printing, thermal transfer
printing or dye-sublimation printing. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate.

Direct thermal printers apply the heat directly to a thermally-sensitive label, wristband, or receipt to create an image. This form of thermal printing technology benefits applications requiring simple
and reliable operations such as shelf labeling, patient identification, and kiosk receipts. Some desktop label printers, mobile printers and kiosk printers support only direct thermal printing.

Thermal transfer printers apply heat to a ribbon to release ink onto labels or tags. This form of thermal printing technology allows a wider range of
specialty label materials and associated inks to be used for applications such as circuit board labels, chemical identification and product labels that require resistance to chemicals, temperature extremes, abrasion, or labels requiring a long shelf
life. Most of our printers in our high performance, midrange, print engine, desktop and mobile categories use thermal transfer printing but can also support direct thermal printing.

Dye-sublimation card printers apply heat to a ribbon to release a dye that is absorbed into a plastic card, retransfer film or treated paper. This process creates full-color, photographic quality images
that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, on-demand photographs, and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards).







Direct thermal and thermal transfer printers create crisp images at high speeds, making them ideal for
printing easily readable text and machine readable bar codes. Dye sublimation thermal printers quickly create full-color images with visual characteristics more similar to halide-based film than to pixel-based ink jet or laser printers, making them
ideal for high quality photographs and personalized plastic cards. Some printers also include HF (13.56 MHz) or UHF (860-960 MHz) RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband.

Zebra’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or
high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Mobile printers use NiMH or LiIon
batteries to optimize print quality over an extended operating shift. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, infrared, Bluetooth, or 802.11b/g wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be
received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II®), as a print driver-provided
image, or as user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems including those operating on UNIX, Linux, MS/DOS®, or Microsoft®Windows®operating systems. Some independent software vendors, including Adobe, Oracle and SAP, have included Zebra printing
support in applications for healthcare, warehouse management, manufacturing, passenger transportation, and retailing.

Printer Sales and
Marketing

Sales.We sell our printer products primarily through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our printer products directly to a select number of named customer accounts. For media and consumables, we sell directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase,
stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems for end-user applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific
software, configuration, installation, integration and support services required by end users within various market segments, these relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. Zebra experiences
a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and industry served.

We functionally classify our direct VARs as
Premier Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contributions to Zebra’s strategic goals and sales commitment to Zebra.
In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies, services and RFID products in specific industries. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All
VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell
the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. We believe that the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete and more
effectively offer our solutions to a greater number of end users.

In some instances, we have designated a customer as a strategic account
when the customer is in a targeted high growth industry with applications for Zebra solutions that span our product categories. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with our partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs
are being met.

The sales function also encompasses a team that manages four global alliances. They direct the business development strategies
for third-party relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific applications.

Marketing.Marketing operations encompass global corporate marketing, field marketing, product marketing, industry marketing, market research and
channel marketing functions. Corporate marketing manages our Zebra brand globally, corporate public relations, internal communications and our web site. The group is also responsible for market research and planning and industry marketing. Product
marketing focuses on market analysis, positioning, product launch support and analyzes Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses. Field marketing encompasses demand generation, channel program management and marketing and sales enablement.

Printer Production and Manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards
of workmanship.

In 2010 we completed the transfer of final printer assembly to a third-party manufacturer, Jabil Circuit, Inc. This action
has helped to reduce costs and optimize our global printer product supply chain and enabled us to be more responsive to







customer needs and increase Zebra’s flexibility to meet emerging business opportunities. See Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for
further discussion of the transfer and transition process.

Jabil produces our printers to our design specifications in the quantities we
order. We maintain control over portions of the supply chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of key component parts. Jabil is responsible for the procurement of the component parts and subassemblies used in the Zebra printers it
produces. Zebra has a subsidiary located in Guangzhou, China, and has an office located near the Jabil facility in China where our products are assembled. This office is staffed with Zebra sourcing, engineering and quality personnel to help
ensure that we receive optimal pricing on raw materials and the final printers meet our quality standards. The majority of Zebra printers manufactured by Jabil are shipped to Zebra’s regional distribution centers. A small percentage of products
are reconfigured at Zebra’s distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging and some other customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with federal
procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United States government.

Competition

Many companies are engaged
in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code label printers, RFID printer/encoder, card personalization solutions and active RFID/Real Time Locating System (RTLS) solutions.

We consider our direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, printer/encoders, mobile printers and
supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing. Many of these companies are substantially larger than
Zebra.

Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available types of processes used to
personalize cards. We also compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation
printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition, service bureaus
compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

We compete with a
diverse group of companies marketing RTLS solutions.

Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors include
the reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical support; supplies and
applications support offered by the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently competes favorably with respect to these factors.

We face competition from many companies, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Aeroscout, Argox; Avery Dennison; Boca Systems; Brother
International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; Cognitive TPG; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Datamax-O’Neil, a unit of Dover Corporation; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid Company; Ekahau, Epson; Evolis; Fargo Electronics, a unit of HID Global; Godex;
Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Inc.; Lexmark International; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS Technologies; Nisca; Oki Data; Olympus; Practical Automation; Printronix; Sato; Seiko Instruments; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Star
Micronics; Taiwan Semiconductor; Toshiba TEC; Ubisense, Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox.

The supplies business is highly fragmented
and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Zebra’s competitors in the
Location Solutions space include Aeroscout, Ekahau and Ubisense.

Alternative Printing Technologies

We believe thermal printing will be the preferred label, card and receipt printer technology in Zebra’s target applications for the foreseeable
future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and high speeds compared with alternative printing
technologies. We view passive RFID smart label encoding and active RFID location systems as







complementary technologies to bar coded printing, offering growth opportunities to Zebra as the technologies become more widely adopted.

If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible that those technologies would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or
become available to our competitors, Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant negative effect on Zebra’s business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods of bar code printing and other means of automatic identification. Alternative
print technologies assessed include ink jet, laser and direct marking. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant thermal printing for labels, cards and receipts, we are not aware of any developing technology that offers the
advantages of thermal printing for our targeted applications. We continually monitor and evaluate new RFID technologies, support their standards development, and rapidly adopt RFID into new Zebra products and systems as new markets and applications
emerge.

Customers

Zebra has
sold more than 10,600,000 thermal printers to customers as of December 31, 2011. Our net sales to significant customers as a percentage of total net sales were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201120102009Customer A20.7%19.8%17.5%Customer B10.5%9.8%5.7%

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

Sales

Net sales by product category for
the last three years were (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31,Product Category201120102009Hardware$743,308$676,738$534,993Supplies187,457167,633155,847Service and software47,20644,82942,379Subtotal977,971889,200733,219Shipping and handling5,5175,1595,263Total net sales$983,488$894,359$738,482

Net sales to international customers, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201120102009Percent of net sales58.4%55.9%52.8%

We believe that international sales have the long-term potential to increase faster than domestic sales because of the
lower penetration of automatic identification applications outside North America and Western Europe and generally higher economic growth rates in developing countries. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our international growth and
currently operates facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 30 different countries.







Research and Development

Zebra’s research and development expenditures for the last three years were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):



Year Ended December 31,201120102009Research and development expenses (excludingacquired in process technology)$89,926$82,575$66,477Percent of net sales9.1%9.2%9.0%

We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our
products maintain high levels of reliability and value to our customers.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively protect many domestic and international trademarks. We hold 394 United States and foreign patents and have 176 United States and foreign patent applications pending
pertaining to products. The duration of these patents ranges from 6 months to 23 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some
technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by
Zebra to protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are
fundamental to our success.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their respective holders and include IBM, a
registered trademark of International Business Machines; UNIX, a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG; and Linux, a registered trademark of
Linus Torvalds. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of January 28, 2012, Zebra employed approximately 2,510 persons, of which 260 are corporate employees. None of our employees are members of a
union. Some portions of our business, primarily in Europe, are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from those in the United States. For example, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as
compensation, benefits or terminations of employment. We consider our employee relations to be very good.

Contact Information

Zebra Technologies Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our principal offices are located at 475 Half Day Road, Suite 500, Lincolnshire,
Illinois 60069. Our main telephone number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address iswww.zebra.com. You can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the investor page on this Web site,
immediately upon filing.

Additional Information

For financial information regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







