Item 1.Business

Zebra Technologies Corporation
is a Delaware corporation. Our principal offices are located at 475 Half Day Road, Suite 500, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069. Our main telephone number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address iswww.zebra.com. You can
find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

The
Company

Zebra delivers products and solutions that improve our customers’ ability to put their critical assets to work smarter by
identifying, tracking and managing assets, transactions and people.

Through the Specialty Printing Group (SPG), we design, manufacture and
sell specialty printing devices that print variable information on demand at the point of issuance. These devices are used worldwide by manufacturers, service and retail organizations and governments for automatic identification, data collection and
personal identification in applications that improve productivity, deliver better customer service and provide more effective security. Our product range consists of direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, passive radio
frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders and dye sublimation card printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other
accessories, including software for label design and printer network management.

In 2007 and 2008, we acquired WhereNet Corp., proveo AG,
Navis Holdings, LLC and Multispectral Solutions, Inc. These companies comprise the Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ZES). The acquisitions of these companies has expanded the range of identification and tracking solutions we deliver to our
customers. In addition, they provided us with new technologies to offer our customers including active RFID, global positioning systems (GPS), telematics and ultra wideband (UWB) technologies. ZES products consist of battery-powered wireless tags,
fixed-position antennae, transponder modules and application software. ZES also provides consulting services, maintenance contracts and software licenses.







Zebra Specialty Printing Group (SPG)

We design our printer products to operate at the point of issuance to produce high-quality labels, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using our
printer products for barcoding and personal identification includes routing and tracking, transactions processing, and identification and authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, where speed, reliability and
durability are critical. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets where improved customer service and productivity gains may be the primary reason for using our on demand receipt printers. Plastic cards are used for secure,
reliable personal identification or access control.

Applications for our printing technology span most industries and geographies. They
include inventory control, small package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, JIT (Just-In-Time) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file management systems, hospital information systems, medical specimen labeling,
shop floor control, in-store product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2009, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than 8,400,000 printers to customers around the world.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide to strengthen security, reduce costs, more effectively manage assets, improve quality,
deliver better customer service, and increase productivity support the adoption of the printing and automatic identification applications Zebra provides because these solutions deliver significant and predictable economic benefits. Industry-mandated
compliance requirements for bar code labeling and RFID tagging are also important catalysts in the deployment of these systems. Many of Zebra’s applications enhance the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement
systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and heightened concern over safety and security are also increasing the use of automatic identification
systems. Still other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for
safety and security and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest in systems that provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems for
driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification cards, event passes, club membership cards and keyless entry systems.

Our printers are used to print bar code labels, receipts, plastic identification cards, wristbands, tags and encode passive RFID “smart” labels. We also sell related specialty labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and bar code
label design and network management software. These products are used to support bar code labeling, personal identification, and specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of
the economy. We work closely with distributors, value-added resellers, kiosk manufacturers and end users of our products to design and implement printing solutions that meet their technical demands. To achieve this flexibility, we provide our
customers with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for a specific application. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives to suit a particular
application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of printing solutions for particular applications.

We produce the industry’s broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of
optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product offering is a unique and significant competitive strength, because it allows Zebra to satisfy the widest variety of thermal printing
applications and leverage our brand and reputation as customers install new systems that require on demand printing.

Of the major printing
technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, we believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies are best suited for most bar code labeling and other on-demand printing applications. Thermal transfer printing
produces durable dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing readily scannable bar codes. These images can be printed on a wide variety of labeling materials, which enable users to affix bar code labels to virtually
any object. This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited where ease of use, smaller size and cost are important factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology
is found principally in Zebra’s mobile and desktop units.







As of December 31, 2009, we offered 58 thermal printer models with numerous variations, in eight
categories as follows:



•Performance tabletop printers for applications requiring continuous operation in high output, mission-critical and industrial settings.

•Mid-range tabletop printers, which are designed for demanding commercial applications.

•Desktop printers to deliver value and performance in applications with lower volume or space restrictions.

•Mobile printers to meet the printing needs of workers in the field.

•Print engines, which are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID
smart label capabilities.

•Kiosk and ticket printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications.

•Card printers, which print national identity cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, gift cards and personalized cards.

•RFID printer/encoders for passive high frequency and ultra-high frequency radio frequency identification in the retail supply chain, for defense
logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these
transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic
identification applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production of custom bar code labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be provided
with traditional off-site printing.

Printer Supplies

Supplies products consist of stock and customized thermal labels, wristbands, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its
printing equipment.

Zebra fully supports its printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance
supplies optimized to a particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in consultation with the reseller and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform. These printing solutions
frequently include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed to optimize image resolution and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to
scratches, smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are all taken into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade image
quality, and decrease the part life of key printer components such as printheads.

Printer Related Software

Zebra has specialized printer management, label design and driver solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. The
ZebraLink Solutions suite of networking, software, firmware offerings, combined with the enhanced printer management capabilities of ZebraNet™ Bridge, makes Zebra’s printers easy to use and integrate into small, medium and enterprise-wide
environments. Our goal is to provide software that enables high levels of functionality to all major computer network and software systems. Network systems include Ethernet, 802.11b/g and Bluetooth®. In 2009, the ZebraLink Multiplatform Software Development and Smart Phone utility was introduced to aid with printing from Smartphones to Zebra
printers.

Zebra offers label design and integration software specifically designed to optimize the performance of Zebra
bar code label printers. Zebra’s suite of label design and printer configuration tools includes ZebraDesigner™, ZebraDesigner™ Pro, ZebraDesigner™ for XML, and ZebraDesigner™ Label Design Software for use with mySAP™
Business Suite. In 2008, Zebra added the Enterprise Connector Solution for Oracle®Business Intelligence
Publisher™, which delivers seamless integration between Oracle and Zebra printers, creating a versatile, easily managed, cost-effective printing platform.







Printer Maintenance and Services

Zebra provides depot maintenance and repair services at repair centers in Vernon Hills, Illinois; Camarillo, California; Etobicoke, Ontario, Canada; Mexico City, Mexico; Preston, U.K.; Singapore;
Shanghai, China; and Heerenveen, Netherlands. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, Zebra offers on-site repair services for tabletop printers in the United
States. Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides technical support from in-house support personnel located in the United
States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. For most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet atwww.zebra.com, 24 hours per day, seven days per week.

Printer Warranties

In general, Zebra
provides warranty coverage of one year on printers against defects in material and workmanship. Printheads are warranted for nine months, and batteries are warranted for twelve months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in material and
workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair or replacement during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s Printer Technology

Our
customers rely on Zebra to provide products and systems to help identify, authenticate, track or route both items and people, and then process the related transactions. These products and systems use technologies that provide specific benefits in
each application.

All Zebra printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology, either direct thermal printing, thermal
transfer printing or dye-sublimation printing. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate.

Direct thermal printers apply the heat directly to a thermally-sensitive label, wristband, or receipt to create an image. This form of thermal printing
technology benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations such as shelf labeling, patient identification, and kiosk receipts. Some desktop label printers, mobile printers and kiosk printers support only direct thermal printing.

Thermal transfer printers apply heat to a ribbon to release ink onto labels or tags. This form of thermal printing technology allows a wider
range of specialty label materials and associated inks to be used for applications such as circuit board labels, chemical identification and product labels that require resistance to chemicals, temperature extremes, abrasion, or labels requiring a
long shelf life. Most of our printers in our high performance, midrange, print engine, desktop and mobile categories use thermal transfer printing but can also support direct thermal printing.

Dye-sublimation card printers apply heat to a ribbon to release a dye that is absorbed into a plastic card, retransfer film or treated paper. This process
creates full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, and on-demand photographs.

Direct thermal and thermal transfer printers create crisp images at high speeds, making them ideal for printing easily readable text and machine readable bar codes. Dye sublimation thermal printers
quickly create full-color images with visual characteristics more similar to halide-based film than to pixel-based ink jet or laser printers, making them ideal for high quality photographs and personalized plastic cards. Some printers also include
HF (13.56 MHz) or UHF (860-960 MHz) RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband.

Zebra’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and
plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Mobile printers use NiMH or LiIon batteries to optimize print quality over an extended operating shift. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB,
infrared, Bluetooth, or 802.11b/g wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra







Programming Language II (ZPL II®), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems including
those operating on UNIX, Linux, MS/DOS®, or Microsoft®Windows®operating systems.
Some independent software vendors, including Adobe, Oracle and SAP, have included Zebra printing support in applications for healthcare, warehouse management, manufacturing, passenger transportation, and retailing.

Printer Sales and Marketing

Sales.We sell our printer products primarily through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our printer products directly to a select number of named customer accounts. For media and
consumables, we also sell directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems for
end-user applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration and support services required by end users within various market
segments, these relationships allow Zebra to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. Zebra experiences a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and industry served.

We functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth and
breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contributions to Zebra’s strategic goals and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies,
services and RFID products in specific industries. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification
components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. We believe that
the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete and more effectively offer our solutions to a greater number of end users.

In some instances, we have designated a customer as a strategic account when purchases of Zebra products reach specified levels and support requirements for
the account become highly customized. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with our partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs are being met.

The sales function also encompasses a group that manages a small number of global alliances. They direct the business development strategies for a limited number of third-party relationships that are
strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific applications.

Marketing.Marketing operations encompass
corporate marketing, marketing communications, product marketing, vertical marketing, solutions marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. Corporate marketing conducts activities to enhance the Zebra corporate brand, corporate
public relations, internal corporate communications and our Web site. The product marketing group identifies, evaluates and recommends new product opportunities and manages product introductions, positioning and demand creation. Product marketing
also focuses on strategic planning and market definition and analyzes Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses.

Printer
Production and Manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and versatility.
These designs combine cost-efficient materials, sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship.

In February 2008, we
announced that final printer assembly would be transferred to a third-party manufacturer, Jabil Circuit, Inc. We completed the transition of transferring substantially all printer lines to Jabil in 2009. This action is helping to reduce costs and
optimize our global printer product supply chain by improving responsiveness to customer needs and increasing Zebra’s flexibility to meet emerging business opportunities. See Note 22 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the transfer and transition process.







Jabil produces our printers to our design specifications in the quantities we order. We maintain control
over the supply chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of key component parts. Jabil is responsible for the procurement of the component parts and subassemblies used in the Zebra printers it produces. Jabil owns the inventory
associated with the product until the product is shipped to Zebra. Zebra has a subsidiary located in Guangzhou, China, and has an office located near the Jabil facility in China where our products are assembled. This office is staffed with
Zebra sourcing, engineering and quality personnel to help ensure that we receive optimal pricing on raw materials and the final printers meet our quality standards. Zebra printers manufactured by Jabil are shipped to Zebra’s regional
distribution centers. The majority of the product passes through to Zebra’s distribution centers. A small percentage of products are reconfigured at Zebra’s distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging and some other
customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with federal procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United States
government.

Printer Competition

Many companies are engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of bar code label printers, RFID printer/encoder and card personalization solutions.

We consider our direct competition in bar code label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, printer/encoders, mobile printers and
supplies. We also compete, however, with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing. Many of these companies are substantially larger than
Zebra.

Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available types of processes used to
personalize cards. We also compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation
printers. These card personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than Zebra. In addition, service bureaus
compete for end user business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

Our ability to compete
effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors include the reliability, quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems
connectivity; price; level of technical support; supplies and applications support offered by the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently
competes favorably with respect to these factors.

We face competition from many competitors, including the following (listed in alphabetical
order): Altech; Argox; Avery Dennison; Boca Systems; Brother International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; CognitiveTPG; ColorX; Copal; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Datamax-O’Neil, a unit of Dover Corporation; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid Company; Epson;
Evolis; Fargo Electronics; Fuji; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Technologies; Lexmark International; LogickaComp; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS; Nisca; Oki Data; Olmec; Olympus; Practical Automation; Printronix; Sato; Seiko
Instruments; Shinko; Song Woo Electronics; Sony; Star Micronics; Taiwan Semiconductor; ToshibaTEC; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox.

The supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various sizes depending on the geographic area.

Alternative Printer Technologies

We believe thermal printing will be the label, card and
receipt printer technology of choice in Zebra’s target applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety
of label materials at relatively low costs and high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We view passive RFID smart label encoding and active RFID location systems as complementary technologies to bar coded printing, offering
growth opportunities to Zebra as the technologies become more widely adopted.







If other technologies were to evolve or become available to Zebra, it is possible that those technologies
would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become available to our competitors, Zebra’s products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant negative effect on Zebra’s
business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods of
bar code printing and other means of automatic identification. Alternative print technologies assessed include ink jet, laser and direct marking. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant thermal printing for labels, cards and
receipts, we are not aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of thermal printing for our targeted applications. We continually monitor and evaluate new RFID technologies, support their standards development, and rapidly adopt
RFID into new Zebra products and systems as new markets and applications emerge.

Zebra Enterprise Solutions Group (ZES)

Formed in 2008 principally from the acquired businesses of Navis Holdings, LLC, WhereNet Corp., proveo AG, and Multispectral Solutions Inc., Zebra Enterprise
Solutions Group offers asset tracking and management solutions to optimize the flow of goods in complex logistical operations. Whether tracking containers and cargo through a major port, managing parts for lean manufacturing or managing ground
support equipment at a major airport, the automated asset tracking and management solutions from ZES improve business processes. Utilizing the combined products offered by these businesses, ZES provides greater asset visibility and business
efficiency for the aerospace and defense, aviation, automotive, industrial manufacturing, maritime, and transportation and logistics industries. Customers within these industries benefit by increasing productivity, lowering operational costs, and
improving safety and security throughout their logistics operations.

A substantial majority of ZES’s business consists of perpetual
software licenses and related services including maintenance, support and consulting services. In addition, ZES sells hardware including our proprietary real time asset management hardware. These products and services may be bundled and sold
together to customers or sold separately.



•Software Licenses. We sell perpetual software licenses on a fixed fee basis. The amounts of the license fees are based primarily on the scope
and functionality of the licenses purchased by the customer. The solutions we provide may also include third-party software.

•Hardware. We sell both proprietary and third-party real time asset management hardware. Most of our hardware products provide electronic tagging
of assets and real time information regarding the assets’ locations and telematics. We sell the hardware as part of an integrated solution and also replacement parts.

•Consulting Services. We provide consulting services for the planning and implementation of our solutions including initial installation and
training. Zebra’s professional services team works with customers who are implementing our applications for the first time, evaluating new technology automation solutions, integrating with third-party systems or upgrading to new platforms.
Services are typically charged on a time and materials basis, although from time-to-time we may enter into fixed fee contracts.

•Maintenance and Support. We offer support to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year, usually for an annual fee, which
entitles them to software upgrades and technical support.

We believe ZES is uniquely positioned with a broad range of asset
tracking and optimization solutions to offer our customers. However, several competitors exist for each solution ZES provides. They include Aeroscout Inc., Ekahau Inc., I.D. Systems Inc., Identec Solutions, Intermec Inc., RF Code Inc., Lockheed
Martin Corp., Roper Industries, Inc., Siemens AG, Motorola, Inc., Amicus, Pinnacle VTIS, IBM, Cosmos, Ubisense, Time Domain and Tideworks Technology.

The ZES products extend Zebra’s reach beyond passive RFID by employing technologically advanced hardware and software solutions to locate, track, manage and optimize high-value assets, equipment and people. We offer a wide range of
scalable real time locating systems (RTLS) technologies used to generate accurate, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets. Customers benefit by utilizing the choice or combination of asset tracking
products that can be “application matched” based on ISO/IEC 24730-2, Cisco CCX Wi-Fi, precision global positioning systems (GPS), and ultra wideband (UWB) technologies.







Our selection of RTLS asset tracking product offerings includes battery-powered active RFID WhereTag™
tags, WhereCall™ button tags, and precision WhereTrack™ products. These asset tags enable organizations to access accurate, real-time information on the location and status of their assets both indoors and outdoors.

In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure products. These products receive tag transmissions and forward the information to the Visibility
Server Software™ (a middleware application) which provides location calculations, database and system management functions and asset visibility. The flexible infrastructure supports large tag populations and coverage areas that can range from
small to large.

We offer a broad set of software development tools for integrating ZES hardware, middleware applications and software
applications, with customer and third-party applications. Our middleware application, Visibility Server Software, provides software tools to design, configure, operate and troubleshoot our RTLS products. Visibility Server Software serves as the
central repository for all of the real-time location and communication data captured by the ZES RTLS infrastructure.

ZES sells its products
and services into the following major industries:



•Airport Operations. Our Airport Visualizer™ provides integrated aviation solutions and helps to optimize motorized ground support equipment
on the pavement immediately adjacent to an airport terminal area or hangers (commonly referred to as the “apron”). This solution helps improve the operational efficiencies of mobile assets for the global aviation industry which is faced
with high costs in maintaining ample amounts of equipment, high fuel consumption, equipment misuse, rising gas emission and high levels of equipment congestion. As of December 31, 2009, our Airport Visualizer solution helped to optimize the
processes of approximately 1,500 airport ground service vehicles.

•Marine and Rail Terminal Operations. Installed and used at approximately 200 marine terminals around the world, our SPARCS™ (synchronous
planning and real time control system) terminal operating system (TOS) helps terminal operators optimize the flow of containers through the facility by managing the processes of a terminal operation. Zebra’s TOS provides users real-time
visibility of containers for better scheduling and routing, among other benefits, to lower costs, manage growth and minimize capital investments in land and berth space. Customers operating rail and truck terminals have begun to use our TOS to
improve their logistics operations as well. Our Navis Powerstow®solution helps terminal operators optimize ship
stowage to minimize total voyage cost and maximize efficiency. Navis Powerstow®offers easy-to-use planning
tools that provide real-time visibility of stowage operations. It uses graphic tools along with proprietary software to help operators configure the placement of cargo on a ship, taking into account several parameters such as weight and destination
to improve safety and vessel utilization.

•Distribution Operations. Our Yard Management Solution Suite™ provides effective management over gate schedules and dock assignments by
providing the ability to track, in real-time, the location and status of all vehicles and their associated inventory throughout the shipping yard or dock. Our Yard Management Suite includes modules for dock and yard management, gate automation and
scheduling for enhanced security, enterprise asset visibility, and container tracking. These optimize dock and yard management solutions, improve customer support, lower operating costs and increase yard and dock capacity.

•Manufacturing Operations. We provide an integrated wireless infrastructure for real-time location, digital messaging, telemetry, and wireless
networking applications to give manufacturers the ability to continuously manage the physical location and status of their critical assets for improving lean processes within the core manufacturing functions.

ZES products and services are primarily sold through ZES’s global direct sales force which is organized around geographic and vertical markets. We
complement our direct sales through the use of other channels including systems integrators with particular vertical market expertise.







ZES’s proprietary software and hardware are developed primarily by its internal team of engineers.
Generally, our software is warranted for 90 days after going live to function consistently with its specifications, and our hardware is warranted to be free from material defects in materials and workmanship for up to one year after purchase.

Customers

Zebra has sold
more than 8,400,000 thermal printers to customers as of December 31, 2009.

ScanSource, Inc., is our most significant customer. Our net
sales to ScanSource, a global distributor of Zebra SPG products, as a percent of our total net sales, were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,200920082007Percent of net sales16.115.416.5

No other customer accounted for 10% or
more of total net sales during these years.

Sales

Net sales by product category for the last three years were (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31,Product Category200920082007Hardware$539,934$692,638$656,974Supplies155,847172,106161,678Service and software102,541105,11342,801Shipping and handling5,2636,8436,826Total net sales$803,585$976,700$868,279

The increase in service and software net sales in 2008 was primarily
due to our ZES acquisitions.

Net sales to international customers, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,200920082007Percent of net sales54.954.552.1

We believe that international sales
have the long-term potential to increase faster than domestic sales because of the lower penetration of automatic identification applications outside North America and Western Europe and generally higher economic growth rates in developing
countries. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 26 different countries.

Research and Development

Zebra’s
research and development expenditures for the last three years were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):



Year Ended December 31,200920082007Research and development expenses - SPG (excludingacquired in process technology)$54,313$61,791$56,183Percent of SPG net sales7.57.06.7Research and development expenses - ZES (excludingacquired in process technology)$30,776$32,658$9,297Percent of ZES net sales37.934.726.4







We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and ensuring
that our products maintain high levels of reliability. Research and development resources are also directed toward enhancing our ZES systems. The increase in research and development expenditures for ZES in 2008 was mainly attributed to the
acquisition of Navis Holdings, LLC late in 2007.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements, copyright laws and contractual rights to
establish and protect its proprietary rights in its products. We have and actively protect many domestic and international trademarks. We hold 347 United States and foreign patents and have 151 United States and foreign patent applications pending
pertaining to products. The duration of these patents ranges from 1 to 23 years. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some
technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no assurance that legal protections relied upon by
Zebra to protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that the legal protections afforded to our intellectual property are
fundamental to our success.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property of their respective holders and include IBM, a
registered trademark of International Business Machines; UNIX, a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of SAP AG; and Linux, a registered trademark of
Linus Torvalds. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of January 29, 2010, Zebra employed approximately 2,700 persons, of which 1,975 are a part of SPG, 527 are a part of ZES and the remaining 198 are
corporate employees. None of these employees is a member of a union. We consider our employee relations to be very good.

Additional
Information

For financial information regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Zebra has two reportable segments for our operations and products. Financial information about segments and geographic areas is found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.







