Item 1.Business

The Company

Zebra is a global leader respected for innovation and reliability which offers products and solutions that enable organizations to gain greater insight
into their operations. Improved visibility allows our customers to create value by managing their assets, transactions and people better.

Zebra’s extensive portfolio of marking and printing technologies, which including barcode, RFID, GPS and sensoring, captures physical events in
digital form to give operational events a virtual voice. This capture enables organizations to know in real-time the location, condition, timing and accuracy of events occurring throughout their value chain. Once the events are seen, organizations
can create new value from what is already there.

We design, manufacture and sell specialty printing devices that print variable information
on demand at the point of issuance. These devices are used worldwide by manufacturers, service and retail organizations and governments for automatic identification, data collection and personal identification in applications that improve
productivity, deliver better customer service and provide more effective security. Our product range consists of direct thermal and thermal transfer label and receipt printers, passive radio frequency identification (RFID) printer/encoders and dye
sublimation card printers. We also sell a comprehensive range of specialty supplies consisting of self-adhesive labels, thermal transfer ribbons, thermal printheads, batteries and other accessories, including software for label design, application
development and printer network management.

Zebra also designs and sells solutions incorporating active RFID, telematics and ultra wideband
radio (UWB) technologies. These solutions help businesses locate and or track assets and people in real time. They use battery-powered wireless tags, fixed-position antennae, transponder modules and application software. We also provide consulting
services, maintenance contracts and software licenses related to these solutions.







In July of 2012, Zebra acquired LaserBand LLC (a Missouri limited liability company). LaserBand is a leader
in patient identification wristbands and related products. LaserBand strengthens Zebra’s product and patent portfolio and enables Zebra to offer a wider array of products to hospitals, other healthcare organizations and other customers that use
wristbands in their operations.

In December of 2012, Zebra acquired StepOne Systems. StepOne is a mobility software company that empowers
store associates by giving them access to product details as well as store and company inventories to better serve their customers. StepOne’s retail application platform is incorporated into Zebra’s fully integrated mobile point-of-sale
(POS) offering, which retail customers use to create a more personal customer engagement and improve the overall shopping experience.

Discontinued Operations

Sale of
Navis, LLC- On March 18, 2011, we sold our Navis marine terminal solutions business and the related WhereNet marine terminal solutions product line of our ZES business to Cargotec Corporation.

Sale of proveo AG- On August 3, 2011, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with F Two NV (a Belgium company) and sold all of our
interest in Zebra Enterprise Solutions GmbH (formerly proveo AG) business.

Beginning in the first quarter of 2011, Zebra reported the results
of these businesses as discontinued operations. The amounts presented in Zebra’s financial statements for discontinued operations include Navis and proveo assets and liabilities, and the operating results of these businesses for 2012, 2011 and
2010. With the sale of Navis, we integrated the remaining ZES business into our location solutions operations.

Continuing Operations

Zebra’s continuing operations include our printers, supplies and services business and our location solutions operations.

Zebra’s printer operations

We
design our printer products to produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. The exceptional diversity of applications using our printer products for barcoding and personal identification includes routing
and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, and identification and authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, where speed, reliability and durability are critical. They also include specialty printing for
receipts and tickets for improved customer service and productivity gains. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification (state id cards and drivers licenses), access control and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards) by
financial institutions.

Applications for our printing solutions span most industries and geographies. They include inventory control, small
package delivery, baggage handling, automated warehousing, just-in-time (JIT) manufacturing, employee time and attendance records, file management systems, patient barcode wrist banding, medical specimen labeling, shop floor control, in-store
product labeling, employee ID cards, driver’s licenses, and access control systems. As of December 31, 2012, management estimates that Zebra has sold more than 11,900,000 printers to customers around the world.

We believe competitive forces on businesses worldwide drive them to strengthen security, reduce costs, more effectively manage assets, improve quality,
deliver better customer service, and increase productivity support the adoption of the printing and automatic identification applications Zebra provides. These solutions deliver significant and predictable economic benefits. Many of Zebra’s
applications enhance the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) and other process improvement systems in manufacturing and service organizations. Greater emphasis on supply chain management, the drive to reduce errors in healthcare, and
heightened concern over safety and security are also increasing the use of automatic identification systems. Still other applications are taking advantage of recent advances in wireless and hand-held computing technologies.

Concern for safety and security and personal identification contribute to demand for our card printer products. This concern has heightened interest in
systems that provide personal identification and access control, including secure ID systems for driver’s licenses, employee and visitor badges, national identification cards, event passes, club membership cards and keyless entry systems.
Financial institutions utilize card printers for credit, debit and ATM cards.







Our printers are used to print barcode labels, receipts, plastic identification cards, wristbands, and tags
and to encode passive RFID “smart” labels and cards. We also sell related specialty labeling materials, thermal ink ribbons, and barcode label design and network management software. These products are used to support barcode labeling,
personal identification, and specialty printing solutions principally in the manufacturing supply chain, retail, healthcare and government sectors of the economy.

We work closely with distributors, value-added resellers, kiosk manufacturers and end users of our products to design and implement printing solutions that meet their technical demands. To achieve this
flexibility, we provide our customers with a broad selection of printer models, each of which can be configured for specific applications. Additionally, we will select and, if necessary, create appropriate labeling stock, ink ribbons and adhesives
to suit a particular application. In-house engineering personnel in software, mechanical, electronic and chemical engineering participate in the creation and development of printing solutions for particular applications.

We produce the industry’s broadest range of rugged, on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal printers. Our printing systems include hundreds of
optional configurations that can be selected to meet particular customer needs. We believe this breadth of product offering is a unique and significant competitive strength.

Of the major printing technologies, which include ink jet, laser and impact dot matrix, we believe that direct thermal and thermal transfer technologies are best suited for most barcode labeling and other
on-demand printing applications. Thermal transfer printing produces durable dark, solid blacks and sharply defined lines that are important for printing readily scannable barcodes. These images can be printed on a wide variety of labeling materials,
which enable users to affix barcode labels to virtually any object. This capability is very important in the industrial and service sectors Zebra serves. Direct thermal printing is best suited where ease of use, smaller size and cost are important
factors in the application. Accordingly, this technology is found principally in Zebra’s mobile and desktop units.

As of
December 31, 2012, we offered 54 thermal printer models with numerous variations, in seven categories as follows:



•Tabletop printers for applications requiring continuous operation in high output, mission-critical and industrial settings as well as demanding
commercial applications.

•Desktop printers to deliver value and performance in applications with lower volume or space restrictions.

•Mobile printers to meet the printing needs of mobile workers in a broad range of industries.

•Print engines, which are sold to manufacturers and integrators of high-speed automatic label applicator systems and are available with or without RFID
smart label capabilities.

•Kiosk and ticket printers for use in kiosks and other unattended printing applications.

•Card printers, which print and encode national identity cards, driver’s licenses, employee identification badges, gift cards, personalized cards
and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards).

•RFID printer/encoders for passive high frequency and ultra-high frequency radio frequency identification in the retail supply chain, for defense
logistics, and other applications. These units are used to print and encode “smart labels” in a single pass. Smart labels are printable labels embedded with an ultra-thin radio frequency transponder. Information encoded in these
transponders can then be read and modified by a radio frequency reader.

In addition to their use in on-demand automatic
identification applications, our thermal printers can also be used for on-site batch production of custom barcode labels and other graphics. This capability results in shorter lead times, reduced inventory, and more flexibility than can be provided
with traditional off-site printing.

Zebra’s location solutions

Zebra offers a range of solutions and services that enable businesses to have visibility into the location and movement of its personnel and assets with real-time locating systems.

Zebra’s location solutions incorporate active RFID technology. Our software and hardware locate, track, manage, and maximize the utilization of
high-value assets, equipment, and people. Whether tracking pallets through a supply chain, the flow of work in process, optimizing product fulfillment, or providing wide-area asset traceability, our real-time location solutions provide constant
visibility and accurate location.

Zebra provides asset tags, call tags, sensors, exciters and application software. Each tag contains a
unique ID that users can associate to a specific asset, part, workstation or person. The complementary technologies in our location solutions work seamlessly together to provide customers with asset visibility and tracking.







Applications for our location solutions span a broad array of industries where tracking assets, transactions
and people are critical. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in industrial manufacturing, process industries, aerospace, transportation and logistics and healthcare environments.

Printer supplies

Supplies products consist of stock and customized thermal labels,
wristbands, plastic cards, card laminates and thermal transfer ribbons. Zebra promotes the use of genuine Zebra brand supplies with its printing equipment.

We fully support our printers, resellers and end users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular user’s needs. Supplies are chosen in
consultation with the reseller and end user based on the specific application, printer and environment in which the labeling system must perform. These printing solutions frequently include proprietary ribbon and label formulations that are designed
to optimize image resolution and printer performance while meeting the most demanding end user application performance criteria. Factors such as adhesion, resistance to scratches, smudges and abrasion, and chemical and environmental exposures are
all taken into account when selecting the type of ribbon and labeling materials. The use of supplies that are not carefully matched to specific printers can degrade image quality, and decrease the life of key printer components such as printheads.

Zebra also provides a family of self-laminating wristbands for use in laser printers. These wristbands are marketed under the LaserBand name.

Printer related software

Our goal is to provide solutions that enable high levels of functionality to all major computer network and software systems. Zebra has specialized printer management, label design, printer drivers and
application development solutions to help unlock the full potential of Zebra printers. Our Link-OS™ suite of networking, software, device operating system offerings, makes Zebra’s printers easy to use and integrate into small, medium and
enterprise-wide environments. Zebra connectivity solutions include support for Ethernet, 802.11a/b/g/n, and
Bluetooth®. Integration with multiple device operating systems, such as Microsoft®Windows®, Android™, iOS, UNIX and Linux, are supported.

We also offer design and integration software specifically designed to optimize the performance of Zebra label and card printers. Our suite of tools includes CardStudio™, ZebraDesigner™,
ZebraDesigner™ Pro, ZebraDesigner™ for XML, and ZebraDesigner™ Label Design Software for use with mySAP™ Business Suite. Zebra’s Enterprise Connector Solution for Oracle®Business Intelligence Publisher™, delivers seamless integration between Oracle and Zebra printers, creating a versatile, easily managed, cost-effective printing
platform.

Printer maintenance and services

Zebra provides depot maintenance and repair services at repair centers in Vernon Hills, Illinois, United States; Etobicoke, Ontario, Canada; Mexico City, Mexico; Preston, United Kingdom; Singapore;
Shanghai, China; Heerenveen, Netherlands; Sydney, Australia; and Sao Paulo, Brazil. Zebra Authorized Service Providers (ZASP) also provide repair services for most Zebra products at their locations. In addition, Zebra offers on-site repair services
for tabletop printers in the United States. Outside of the United States, Zebra’s resellers may provide maintenance service, either directly as ZASPs or through independent service agents. Zebra also provides technical support from in-house
support personnel located in the United States, the United Kingdom and Singapore. For most Zebra products, Zebra provides interactive technical support via the Internet atwww.zebra.com, 24 hours per day, seven days per week.

Printer warranties

In general, Zebra
provides one year of warranty coverage on our printers against defects in material and workmanship. Our printheads are warranted for nine months, and our batteries are warranted for twelve months. Zebra supplies are warranted against defects in
material and workmanship for their stated shelf life or twelve months, whichever ends first. Defective equipment and supplies may be returned for repair or replacement during the applicable warranty periods.

Zebra’s technology

Our customers
rely on Zebra to provide products and systems to help identify, authenticate, track or route both items and people, and then process the related transactions. These products and systems use technologies that provide specific benefits in each
application.

All Zebra printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology, either direct thermal printing, thermal transfer
printing or dye-sublimation printing. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate.







Direct thermal printers apply the heat directly to a thermally-sensitive label, wristband, or receipt to
create an image. This form of thermal printing technology benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations such as shelf labeling, patient identification, and kiosk receipts. Some desktop label printers, mobile printers and kiosk
printers support only direct thermal printing.

Thermal transfer printers apply heat to a ribbon to release ink onto labels or tags. This form
of thermal printing technology allows a wider range of specialty label materials and associated inks to be used for applications such as circuit board labels, chemical identification and product labels that require resistance to chemicals,
temperature extremes, abrasion, or labels requiring a long shelf life. Most of our printers in our high performance, midrange, print engine, desktop and mobile categories use thermal transfer printing but can also support direct thermal printing.

Dye-sublimation card printers apply heat to a ribbon to release a dye that is absorbed into a plastic card, retransfer film or treated paper.
This process creates full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, on-demand photographs, and financial cards (credit, debit and ATM cards).

Direct thermal and thermal transfer printers create crisp images at high speeds, making them ideal for printing easily readable text and machine readable
barcodes. Dye sublimation thermal printers quickly create full-color images with visual characteristics more similar to halide-based film than to pixel-based ink jet or laser printers, making them ideal for high quality photographs and personalized
plastic cards. Some printers also include HF (13.56 MHz) or UHF (860-960 MHz) RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label, card, or wristband.

Zebra’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact
plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Mobile printers use NiMH or LiIon batteries to
optimize print quality over an extended operating shift. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, infrared, Bluetooth, or 802.11a/b/g/n wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a
proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (ZPL II®), as a print driver-provided image, or as
user-defined XML. These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems including those operating on UNIX, Linux, or Microsoft®Windows®operating systems.
Some independent software vendors, including Adobe, Oracle and SAP, have included Zebra printing support in applications for healthcare, warehouse management, manufacturing, passenger transportation, and retailing.

Printer sales and marketing

Sales.We sell our printer products primarily through distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also sell our printer products directly to a select number of named customer accounts. For media and
consumables, we sell directly to end users through the Internet and telesales operations. Distributors and VARs purchase, stock and sell a variety of automatic identification components from different manufacturers and customize systems for end-user
applications using their systems and application integration expertise. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration and support services required by end users within various market segments, these
relationships allow us to reach end users throughout the world in a wide variety of industries. We experience a minor amount of seasonality in sales, depending on the geographic region and industry served.

We functionally classify our direct VARs as Premier Partners, Advanced Partners, or Associate Partners, depending on their business competencies, depth
and breadth of their sales teams, customer support capabilities, contributions to Zebra’s strategic goals and sales commitment to Zebra. In addition, we offer VARs the opportunity to earn certifications for mobile/wireless printers, supplies,
services and RFID products in specific industries. We also sell through distributors, which in turn sell to an extended VAR community. All VARs, as well as OEMs and systems integrators, provide customers with a variety of automatic identification
components including scanners, accessories, applications software and systems integration expertise, and, in the case of some OEMs, resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. We believe that
the breadth of this indirect channel network, both in terms of variety and geographic scope, enhances our ability to compete and more effectively offer our solutions to a greater number of end users.

In some instances, we have designated a customer as a strategic account when the customer is in a targeted high-growth industry with applications for
Zebra solutions that span our product categories. Zebra sales personnel, either alone or together with our channel partners, manage these strategic accounts to ensure their needs are being met.

The sales function also encompasses a team that manages three global alliances. They direct the business development strategies for third-party
relationships that are strategic to new demand creation for specific vertical markets and/or specific applications.







Marketing.Marketing operations encompass global corporate marketing, field marketing, product
marketing, industry marketing, market research and channel marketing functions. Corporate marketing manages our Zebra brand globally, corporate public relations, internal communications and our web site. Corporate marketing is also responsible for
market research and planning and industry marketing. Product marketing focuses on market analysis, positioning, product launch support and analyzes Zebra’s competitive strengths and weaknesses. Field marketing encompasses demand generation,
channel program management and marketing and sales enablement.

Printer production and manufacturing

We design our products to optimize product performance, quality, reliability, durability and versatility. These designs combine cost-efficient materials,
sourcing and assembly methods with high standards of workmanship.

In 2010 we completed the transfer of final printer assembly to a
third-party manufacturer, Jabil Circuit, Inc. This action reduces product costs and optimized our global printer product supply chain. It has enabled us to be more responsive to customer needs and increase Zebra’s flexibility to meet emerging
business opportunities.

Jabil produces our printers to our design specifications in the quantities we order. We maintain control over
portions of the supply chain including supplier selection and price negotiations of key component parts. Jabil is responsible for the procurement of the component parts and subassemblies used in the Zebra printers it produces. Zebra has a subsidiary
located in Guangzhou, China, and has an office located near the Jabil facility in China where our products are assembled. This office is staffed with our sourcing, engineering and quality personnel to help ensure that we receive optimal raw
material pricing, manufacturing process controls are maintained and the final printers meet our quality standards. The majority of our printers manufactured by Jabil are shipped to our regional distribution centers. A small percentage of products
are reconfigured at Zebra’s distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging and customer specific customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with Federal
procurement regulations and various international trade agreements, and remain eligible for sale to the United States government.

Competition

Many companies are engaged
in the design, manufacture and marketing of barcode label printers, RFID printer/encoders, card personalization and active RFID/Real Time Locating System (RTLS) solutions.

We consider our direct competition in barcode label and receipt printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label printing systems, printer/encoders, mobile printers and
supplies. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture and marketing of printing systems that use alternative technologies, such as ink-jet and laser printing. Many of these companies are substantially larger than Zebra.

Dye sublimation, the technology used in our card printers, is only one of several commercially available processes used to personalize cards.
We also compete with companies that produce identification cards using alternative technologies, which include ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving and large-scale dye sublimation printers. These card
personalization technologies offer viable alternatives to Zebra’s card printers and provide effective competition from a variety of companies, many of which are substantially larger than us. In addition, service bureaus compete for end user
business and provide an alternative to the purchase of our card printing equipment and supplies.

We compete with a diverse group of small
companies marketing RTLS solutions.

Our ability to compete effectively depends on a number of factors. These factors include the reliability,
quality and reputation of the manufacturer and its products; hardware and software innovations and specifications; breadth of product offerings; information systems connectivity; price; level of technical support; supplies and applications support
offered by the manufacturer; available distribution channels; and financial resources to support new product design and innovation. We believe that Zebra presently competes favorably with respect to these factors.

We face competition in our printing business from many printer companies, including the following (listed in alphabetical order): Argox; Avery Dennison;
Bixolon; Blue Bamboo; Boca Systems; Brother International; Canon; CIM; Citizen; Cognitive TPG; Custom; Danaher; Datacard; Datamax-O’Neil, a unit of Dover Corporation; Dymo, a Newell Rubbermaid Company; Epson; Evolis; Fargo Electronics, a unit
of HID Global; Godex; Hewlett-Packard; Hitachi; Intermec Inc.; Lexmark International; MagiCard; Matica; Microcom; Mitsubishi; NBS Technologies; Nisca; Oki Data; Olympus; Practical Automation; Printronix; Sato; Seiko Instruments; Song Woo
Electronics; Sony; Star Micronics; Taiwan Semiconductor; Toshiba TEC; Victor Data Systems; Woosim; and Xerox.







The supplies business is highly fragmented and competition is comprised of numerous competitors of various
sizes depending on the geographic area.

Zebra’s competitors in the location solutions products include Aeroscout, Ekahau and Ubisense.

Alternative printing technologies

We believe thermal printing will be the preferred label, card and receipt printer technology in Zebra’s target applications for the foreseeable future. Among the many advantages of direct thermal and
thermal transfer printing is the ability to print high-resolution, durable images on a wide variety of label materials at relatively low costs and high speeds compared with alternative printing technologies. We view passive RFID smart label encoding
and active RFID location systems as complementary technologies to barcoded printing, offering growth opportunities for Zebra as the technologies become more widely adopted.

If other technologies were to evolve or become available, it is possible that those technologies would be incorporated into our products. Alternatively, if such technologies were to evolve or become
available to our competitors, our products may become obsolete. This obsolescence would have a significant negative effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Therefore, we continually assess competitive and complementary methods of barcode printing and other means of automatic identification. Alternative print
technologies include ink jet, laser and direct marking. While we cannot be sure that new technology will not supplant thermal printing for labels, cards and receipts, we are not aware of any developing technology that offers the advantages of
thermal printing for our targeted applications. We continually monitor and evaluate new RFID technologies, support standards development and rapidly adopt RFID into new Zebra products and systems as new markets and applications emerge.

Customers

Zebra has sold more than
11,900,000 thermal printers to customers as of December 31, 2012. Zebra had three customers that accounted for 10% or more of its sales. All three of these customers are distributors and not end users. Our net sales to significant customers as
a percentage of total net sales were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201220112010Customer A20.4%20.7%19.8%Customer B11.4%10.5%9.8%Customer C10.3%8.9%8.0%

No other customer accounted for 10% or more of total net sales during these years.

Sales

Net sales by product category for
the last three years were (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31,Product Category201220112010Hardware$730,489$743,308$676,738Supplies212,499187,457167,633Service and software47,94147,20644,829Subtotal990,929977,971889,200Shipping and handling5,2395,5175,159Total net sales$996,168$983,488$894,359







Net sales to international customers, as a percent of total net sales, were as follows:



Year Ended December 31,201220112010Percent of net sales56.2%58.4%55.9%

We believe that international sales are likely to increase faster than domestic sales because of the lower penetration of
automatic identification applications outside North America and Western Europe and generally higher economic growth rates in developing countries. As a result, Zebra has invested resources to support our international growth and currently operates
facilities and sales offices, or has representation, in 30 different countries.

Research and Development

Zebra’s research and development expenditures for the last three years were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):



Year Ended December 31,201220112010Research and development expenses$87,364$89,926$82,575Percent of net sales8.8%9.1%9.2%

We devote significant resources to developing new printing solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our
products maintain high levels of reliability and value to our customers.

Intellectual Property Rights

Zebra relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights and contractual rights to establish and protect its innovations. We hold
over 200 domestic and international trademarks. We hold over 700 United States and foreign patents and patent applications. The expiration of any individual patent would not have a significant negative impact on our business.

Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy portions of our products or to
reverse engineer or otherwise obtain and use some technology and information that we regard as proprietary. Moreover, the laws of some countries do not afford Zebra the same protection to proprietary rights, as do United States laws. There can be no
assurance that legal protections relied upon by Zebra to protect its proprietary position will be adequate. While Zebra’s intellectual property is valuable and provides certain competitive advantages, we do not believe that the legal
protections afforded to our intellectual property are fundamental to our success.

Other trademarks mentioned in this report are the property
of their respective holders and include IBM, a registered trademark of International Business Machines; UNIX, a registered trademark of UNIX Systems Laboratories; MS/DOS and Windows, registered trademarks of Microsoft; SAP, a registered trademark of
SAP AG; and Linux, a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. Bluetooth is a trademark owned by Bluetooth SIG and used by Zebra under license.

Employees

As of January 26, 2013,
Zebra employed approximately 2,544 persons, of which 265 are corporate employees. None of our employees are members of a union. Some portions of our business, primarily in Europe and China, are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from
those in the United States. For example, in Europe, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as compensation, benefits or terminations of employment. We consider our employee relations to be very good.

Contact Information

Zebra
Technologies Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our principal offices are located at 475 Half Day Road, Suite 500, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069. Our main telephone number is (847) 634-6700 and our primary Internet Web site address iswww.zebra.com. You can find all of Zebra’s filings with the SEC free of charge through the investor page on this Web site, immediately upon filing.

Additional Information

For financial information regarding Zebra, see Zebra’s
Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes, which are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







