ITEM 1. Business

General

We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information
technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are
designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies, commercial businesses, and personal residences.

We conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in five segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging
Markets, Asia Pacific, and Japan. The Emerging Markets theater consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments,
see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into this report by reference.

We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our
headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make
available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.

Products and Services

We design, manufacture, and sell IP-based networking and other products related to the communications and IT industry and provide services
associated with these products and their use. Our products and services are designed to address a wide range of customers’ needs, including improving productivity, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage. In addition, our products
and services are designed to help customers build their own network infrastructures that support tools and applications that allow them to communicate with key stakeholders, including customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and
employees. We focus on delivering networking products and solutions that are designed to simplify and secure customers’ network infrastructures. We believe that integrating multiple network services into our products helps our customers reduce
their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, routing and switching; advanced technologies; and other products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range
of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers,
and consumers.

Our products are used individually or as integrated offerings to connect personal and business computing
devices to networks or computer networks with each other—whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and service offerings across multiple technology segments enables us to offer a wide range
of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks to a single multi-service data, voice, and video network, enabling economies of scale.







Network architectures, built on core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to
accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business, are redefined when delivered by the network platform and are what we
refer to as market adjacencies. Our position is not only differentiated by our architectural approach and IP leadership, but is strengthened through our experience, expertise, partners and services. Our unique value proposition, in our view,
allows us to comprehensively deliver on and accelerate the transformation of these market adjacencies.

In the past several
years we have addressed market adjacencies related to our core routing and switching products through the development of various network-related offerings in our advanced and emerging technologies groups of products. Our advanced and emerging
technologies offerings build upon our existing competencies which we believe allows us to expand the overall market for our products and services. In this respect, we have focused our efforts on the following product categories: application
networking services, Cisco TelePresence systems, the Cisco Unified Computing System platform, digital media, home networking, physical security, security, storage area networking, unified communications, video systems, and wireless technology, among
others. We are in the process of identifying additional advanced and emerging technologies for focus and investment in the future. As has been the case from time to time, one or more of our currently identified advanced or emerging technologies may
be curtailed or eliminated due to market developments or other factors.

We refer to the evolutionary process by which
adjacencies arise as market transitions. Market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. With regard to
virtualization/the cloud, one example of a market in which a significant market transition is underway is the enterprise data center market. We believe the market is at an inflection point, as awareness grows that intelligent networks are becoming
the platform for productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We further believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the
rise in scalable processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:

Virtualization:refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared
resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.

The Cloud:refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software
applications, are no longer tethered to a user’s physical infrastructure but which instead are delivered to and consumed by the user “on demand” as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users
simultaneously.

This virtualization and cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought
about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through, among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product
families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to capitalize on this market transition through the development of cloud-based product and
service offerings, through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-related IT solutions, including software-as-a-service (SaaS), and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.

In addition, in fiscal 2010, Cisco and EMC, together with VMware, formed the Virtual Computing Environment (“VCE”) coalition to
accelerate customers’ ability to increase business agility through greater IT infrastructure flexibility and lower IT, energy and real estate costs through pervasive data center virtualization and a transition to private cloud infrastructures.
The VCE coalition introduced Vblock Infrastructure packages designed to be fully integrated, tested, validated, scalable, and immediately deployable infrastructure packages that combine innovative virtualization, networking, computing, storage,
security and management technologies from Cisco, EMC, and VMware with end-to-end vendor accountability.Similarly, our investment in Acadia Enterprises, LLC (“Acadia”), a joint venture with EMC, in which VMware and Intel have also
invested, is designed to pave the way to new delivery models for cloud computing solutions.

The competitive landscape in the
enterprise data center market is changing, and we expect there will be a new class of very large, well-financed and aggressive competitors, each bringing its own new class of products to address this new market. However, with respect to this market,
we believe the network will be the intersection of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center
market. As we enter this next market phase, we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best
solutions for our customers.

Other market transitions on which we are focusing primary attention include those related to the
increased role of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0 technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in
network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked Web 2.0
technologies, as customers evolve their communications and business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers, and our fiscal 2010 acquisition
of Tandberg ASA (“Tandberg”) is an example of our increased emphasis on the video market segment.







To address these market adjacencies, we believe a collaborative strategy is required. We believe that we need the subject area and
functional skill expertise of not just one person but many within our company. Accordingly, we have developed what we feel is an innovative organizational structure of boards and councils, bringing together Cisco managers from across many functional
areas within our company to collaboratively define, plan, execute, and monitor our progress in these many market adjacencies.

For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled
“We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may
suffer.” For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 15 is incorporated into this report by reference.

Our current offerings fall into several categories:

Routing

Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data,
voice, and video applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of
routers, from core network infrastructure for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 1800, 2800, and 3800 Series
Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco ASR 1000, 5000 and 9000 Series Aggregation Service Routers; Cisco 7200, 7600 and 12000 Series Routers and the Cisco CRS Carrier Routing System.

During fiscal 2010, we introduced the Cisco CRS-3 Carrier Routing System (“CRS-3). Built on the same design principles as the CRS-1,
the Cisco CRS-3 more than triples performance and provides efficiency by consuming less power while using cooling and rack-space resources for intelligent, service-rich bandwidth capacity. Developed for service provider core networks, the CRS-3 is
designed to transport the growing video and application traffic on the Internet.

Switching

During fiscal 2010, we enhanced our fixed configuration switches, to deliver key network services that are designed to work with Cisco
routing, security, and wireless products to enable video collaboration, enterprise-wide energy management, and policy-based security. In fiscal 2010, we continued to expand on the Cisco Catalyst 4900 series and the deployment options for Nexus 7000
by introducing support for up to one million routes.







Advanced Technologies

Application Networking Services

Cisco Application Networking Services consist of a broad portfolio of application networking solutions that enable secure, high
performance, reliable delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch office users. Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by
using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources. A key product within our application networking services category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive
WAN optimization solution.

During fiscal 2010, we introduced WAN Optimization Services for SaaS-based applications and WAN
Optimization solutions for the Integrated Service Router G2’s Services Ready Engine.

Home Networking

Today’s consumers have increasing demands for wireless connectivity. Our home networking strategy aligns with Cisco’s broader
vision to enable consumers to live a connected life that is more personal, more social, and more visual. Our products connect different devices in the household, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage, video, music, movies, and
games throughout the home. Products include routers, adapters, gateways, switches, modems, home network management software, and other products that are designed to provide both tech-savvy and mass-market consumers with rich in-home experiences.
These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.

During fiscal 2010, we re-launched our home networking product lines in the United States and Canada. The launch included Valet, a new
product line of wireless products aimed at providing mainstream users with the benefits of wireless home networking experiences. In addition, we launched the new Linksys E-Series wireless routers and adapters for technology-minded consumers. Both of
these product families support the new 802.11n Wi-Fi standard. They also include our new Cisco Connect Software, enabling consumers to easily set up and manage their wireless network.

Security

Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our
products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPN), unified client, web, and email security. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats.
We provide security solutions that are designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. In addition, Cisco security systems include network and application policy
solutions for identity services used in data centers and collaboration services as a series of network access control and entitlement solutions. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series Adaptive Security
Appliances line.

In fiscal 2010, we introduced the Cisco AnyConnect VPN Client, which enables users to access networks with
their mobile device of choice, including laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of borderless networks. We also acquired ScanSafe, Inc. (“ScanSafe”) a cloud-based web security
service designed to prevent zero-day malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. As a cloud-based service, the ScanSafe solution requires no hardware or upfront capital costs or maintenance and is designed to provide
real-time threat protection for accurate policy and security enforcement.

Storage Area Networking

We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center environments designed to deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure
connectivity between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, virtualization, and tools
that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series currently is the key product line within our storage area networking product category.

During fiscal 2010, we continued to enhance our MDS 9000 product line by introducing features to enable server
virtualization, SAN consolidation and pay-as-you-grow flexibility to scale from an entry-level departmental switch to edge connectivity in enterprise SANs.

Unified Communications

Cisco Unified Communications products integrate voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks, delivering a
media-rich collaboration experience to the workspace. Specific products include IP phones, client software, servers, and network appliances supporting call control, contact centers, messaging, conferencing, voice mobility, and collaboration
including presence and preference information. These products are available as software and web-based collaborative offerings, as standalone devices, and as integrated components in Cisco routers and switches. These applications aim to use the
network as the platform to enhance competitive advantage by enabling users to accelerate decision time and reduce transaction time. The security and scalability of the network enable users in any workspace to connect with one another through a
computer, handset, smartphone, or other similar communications equipment. Cisco Unified Communications products are part of a comprehensive solution that includes network infrastructure, security, wireless, management







applications, lifecycle services, flexible deployment, outsourced management options, and third-party applications. In addition, Cisco WebEx products provide web-based collaborative offerings
that allow users to share presentations, applications, documents, and desktops, with full-motion video and integrated audio, in a rich multimedia environment online through the use of a standard web browser.

During fiscal 2010, we introduced unified communications solutions, which provide more deployment options for our customers, with support
for virtualization of unified communications applications on the Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) and we also announced the launch of Cisco Hosted Collaboration Solution for partners who are looking to offer Cisco Unified Communications and
Collaboration in an “as a Service” consumption model. We also provided additional support for customers migrating from legacy voice to IP-based networks and we enhanced capabilities to our Unified Messaging, Conferencing, Mobility, and
Customer Contact solutions.

Video Systems

Our video systems offerings consist primarily of digital set-top boxes and digital media technology products. Digital set-top boxes
provide video entertainment services to consumers. They enable subscribers to access a variety of interactive digital television services developed by either Cisco or third parties. Our equipment includes standard-definition (SD), IP television
(IPTV) service-enabled, Data over Cable System Interface Specification (DOCSIS), DOCSIS gateway (DSG), high-definition (HD), digital video recorder (DVR), HD-DVR, multiple-room DVR, and digital-only set-top boxes. Digital media technology products
span a wide range of signal processing and headend capabilities including reception, encoding or transcoding, transrating, multiplexing, ad insertion, switching, and modulation. Deployment of these capabilities can help service providers and
broadcast customers to more efficiently deliver entertainment, information, and communications services over their existing access networks.

Wireless Technology

The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and
outdoor environments. This wireless system strives to maximize flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the
platform designed to reduce operational cost. This platform delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A
current key product line within our wireless technology category is the Cisco Aironet product family.

Other Products

Our other products category primarily consists of optical networking products, cable access, Cisco’s Flip Video
family which includes the Flip Ultra and Flip Mino camcorder lines, and service provider voice-over-IP (VoIP) services. Additional items in our other products category include emerging technologies such as Cisco TelePresence systems, the Cisco
Unified Computing System, physical security and video surveillance, digital media systems, and building systems that help companies manage energy efficiently.

During fiscal 2010, with the acquisition of Tandberg, our TelePresence products within the other products category now include the
Tandberg line of video conferencing products. We also launched new Flip camcorders in the United States and Canada.

Service

In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced
services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for
systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs.
The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our
architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.

Customers and Markets

Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the
organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the business applications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In
each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer.

Enterprise

Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ
1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multi-vendor environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We strive to take advantage of
the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell
these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.







Service Providers

Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide.
They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and web portal providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the
telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home,
mobility, and network management products and systems in their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business
customers. These technologies include Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems products, as well as other video and security products and systems that can
be incorporated into network-attached data centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which
requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.

Commercial

Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the
commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or
companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel
partners.

Consumer

Our consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use to enjoy a broad range of
entertainment, communications, and information experiences. Cisco is able to deliver these solutions to consumers through major consumer channels, including both traditional and online retailers, directly through our website and through value added
resellers. The Flip Video family of camcorders represents a new addition to our consumer product line, having been added to our product portfolio through the acquisition of Pure Digital Technologies, Inc. The Flip Video family of camcorders is
designed to make video simple, accessible, and fun by allowing people to easily capture and edit videos and then share them instantly with friends and family and on popular video-sharing websites.

Sales Overview

As of the end of fiscal 2010, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 24,600 employees, including
managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 90 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A
substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail
partners.

Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system
installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems
integrators.

Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.
In addition, home networking products are generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail
partners generally is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for
changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.

For information regarding risks related
to our channels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to
our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.”

For information
regarding risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the
uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our
operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact
our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results”, among others.

Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services,
including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.







We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans,
for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases
include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to
three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products
and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders. Note 6 is incorporated into this report by reference.

Product Backlog

Our product backlog at July 31, 2010, the last day of our 2010 fiscal year, was approximately $4.1 billion, compared with product
backlog of approximately $3.9 billion at July 25, 2009, the last day of our 2009 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of
the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date,
is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any future period.

Acquisitions, Investments, and
Alliances

The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The
combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden
the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and
services:



•Developing new technologies and products internally



•Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies



•Reselling other companies’ products



•Acquiring all or parts of other companies

Acquisitions

We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are
inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating
results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk
Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.”

Investments in Privately Held Companies

We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that
provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio
investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.”

Strategic Alliances

We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and
acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic
alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Nokia Corporation; Nokia
Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The
risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits
from such alliances and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.”







Competition

We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video
traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors
represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of
competitors may change as we increase our activity in our advanced technology markets and market adjacencies. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced
price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.

Our
competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Belden Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone
Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; Force10 Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks,
Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others.

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:



•The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services



•Product performance



•Price



•The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages



•The ability to reduce production costs



•The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection



•Conformance to standards



•Market presence



•The ability to provide financing



•Disruptive technology shifts and new business models

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The
inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic
alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success.

Research and Development

We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and
development budget among routers, switches, advanced technologies, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.3 billion, $5.2 billion, and $5.3 billion in fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008,
respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus include, but are not limited to, Cisco TelePresence systems products, physical
security, digital media, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.







The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving
standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop
and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other
innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue
developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and
technological changes, or that those products will achieve market acceptance.

Manufacturing

We primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies on contract manufacturers for manufacturing services. We presently
use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to
configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer
requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our
products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.

Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing
process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any
significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or
any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year. We experienced longer than normal lead times on several of our products in fiscal 2010 and continue
to see challenges at some of our component suppliers. This was attributable in part to increasing demand driven by the improvement in our overall markets, and similar to what is happening in the industry, the longer than normal lead time extensions
also stemmed from supplier constraints based upon their labor and other actions taken during the global economic downturn.

Although we primarily employ an outsourced manufacturing strategy, we continue to operate manufacturing facilities, including a principal
facility in Juarez, Mexico, for the manufacture of set-top boxes. The manufacturing operations in Juarez range from automated assembly lines for volume production to complete assembly of a particular product by one individual or a small group of
individuals.

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights,
trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also
seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in
other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and
trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our
employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.

Many of our products
are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and
standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to
obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial
condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.







The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large
number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that
others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same
extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our proprietary rights may prove difficult
to enforce,” “We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,” and “We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.”

Employees

As of July 31, 2010, we employed approximately 70,700 employees, including approximately 18,250 in manufacturing and service,
approximately 21,250 in engineering, approximately 24,600 in sales and marketing, and approximately 6,600 in general and administration. Approximately 38,350 employees are in locations within the United States. We consider the relationships with our
employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date,
we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2010 of each of our executive officers:





NameAgePosition

Susan L. Bostrom49Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer, Global Policy and Government AffairsMs. Bostrom joined Cisco in October 1997 as Vice President of Cisco’s
Applications and Services Marketing group. In August 1998, she was appointed Vice President of the Internet Business Solutions Group, and she was promoted to Senior Vice President in February 2000. In October 2002, she also assumed responsibility
for Worldwide Government Affairs. Since January 2006, she has served as Chief Marketing Officer, and in August 2007 she was named Executive Vice President. Before joining Cisco, Ms. Bostrom had served as Senior Vice President of Global Marketing and
Strategic Planning at FTP Software. Ms. Bostrom also currently serves on the board of directors of Varian Medical Systems, Inc.



Frank A. Calderoni53Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer
Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage
networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a
number of executive positions.



John T. Chambers61Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorMr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the
Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers
was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S.
Operations.



Mark Chandler54Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and SecretaryMr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom,
Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was
promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to
Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.



Wim Elfrink58Executive Vice President and Chief Globalisation OfficerMr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In
November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006
and moved to Bangalore India to establish Cisco’s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President.









NameAgePosition



Robert W. Lloyd54Executive Vice President, Worldwide OperationsMr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East
and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position.



Gary B. Moore61Executive Vice President, Cisco ServicesMr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco
Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that,
he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions.



Randy Pond56Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and SystemsMr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of
Cisco’s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia
operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice
President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.







