Item 1.Business

General

We
design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP)-based networking and other products related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry and provide services associated with these products and their use. We provide a broad
line of products for transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. Our products are designed to transform how people connect, communicate, and collaborate. Our products are installed at enterprise
businesses, public institutions, telecommunications companies and other service providers, commercial businesses, and personal residences.

We
conduct our business globally and are managed geographically in four segments: United States and Canada, European Markets, Emerging Markets, and Asia Pacific Markets. The Emerging Markets segment consists of Eastern Europe, Latin America, the Middle
East and Africa, and Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States. For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As we strive for faster decision making with greater
accountability and alignment to support our emerging countries and our five foundational priorities as discussed below, beginning in fiscal 2012, we will organize into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and
Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (“APJC”).

We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and
our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through
a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”): our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of
charge.

Products and Services

As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business
imperatives







and opportunities—improving productivity and user experience, reducing costs, and gaining a competitive advantage—and to help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders,
including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers’ network infrastructures. We also deliver products and solutions that
leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions and customer requirements—including in recent periods, virtualization, cloud, collaboration, and video. We believe that integrating multiple network services into and across
our products helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility and reduce their total cost of network ownership. Our product offerings fall into the following categories: our core technologies, Routing and Switching;
New Products; and Other Products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Our customer base spans virtually all types of public and private
agencies and businesses, comprising enterprise businesses, service providers, commercial customers, and consumers.

Our products are used
individually or as integrated offerings to connect personal and business computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other—whether they are within a building, across a campus, or around the world. Our breadth of product and
service offerings across multiple technology segments enables us to offer a wide range of products and services to meet customer-specific requirements. We also provide products and services that allow customers to transition their various networks
to a single multi-service data, voice, and video network, thereby enabling economies of scale.

Network architectures, built on core routing
and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the
network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.

We
announced a plan in May 2011, which we began implementing in fiscal 2011 and expect to complete in fiscal 2012, to realign our sales, services and engineering organizations in order to simplify our operating model and focus on our five foundational
priorities:



•Leadership in our core business (routing, switching, and associated services) which includes comprehensive security and mobility solutions



•Collaboration



•Data center virtualization and cloud



•Video



•Architectures for business transformation

We believe that focusing on these priorities will best position us to continue to expand our share of our customers’ information technology spending.

We are currently undergoing product transitions in our core business and introducing next-generation products with higher price performance and
architectural advantages compared to both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth
across these next-generation product families. We believe that our strategy and our ability to innovate and execute may enable us to improve our relative competitive position in many of our product areas even in uncertain or difficult business
conditions and, therefore, may continue to provide us with long-term growth opportunities. However, we believe that these newly introduced products may continue to negatively impact product gross margins, which we are currently striving to address
through various initiatives including value engineering, effective supply chain management, and delivering greater customer value through offers that include hardware, software, and services.







We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions. Market transitions on which we are primarily
focused include those related to the increased role of virtualization/the cloud, video, collaboration, networked mobility technologies and the transition from Internet Protocol Version 4 to Internet Protocol Version 6. For example, a market in which
a significant market transition is under way is the enterprise data center market, where a transition to virtualization / the cloud is rapidly evolving. There is a continued growing awareness that intelligent networks are becoming the platform for
productivity improvement and global competitiveness. We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends such as the increasing adoption of virtualization, the rise in scalable
processing, and the advent of cloud computing and cloud-based IT resource deployments and business models. These key terms are defined as follows:

Virtualization:refers to the process of aggregating the current siloed data center resources into unified, shared resource pools that can be dynamically delivered to applications on
demand thus enabling the ability to move content and applications between devices and the network.

The cloud:refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user’s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user
“on demand” as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously.

This virtualization and
cloud-driven market transition in the enterprise data center market is being brought about through the convergence of networking, computing, storage, and software technologies. We are seeking to take advantage of this market transition through,
among other things, our Cisco Unified Computing System platform and Cisco Nexus product families, which are designed to integrate the previously siloed technologies in the enterprise data center with a unified architecture. We are also seeking to
capitalize on this market transition through the development of other cloud-based product and service offerings through which we intend to enable customers to develop and deploy their own cloud-based IT solutions, including software-as-a-service
(SaaS) and other-as-a-service (XaaS) solutions.

The competitive landscape in the enterprise data center market is changing. Very large,
well-financed, and aggressive competitors are each bringing their own new class of products to address this new market. We expect this competitive market trend to continue. With respect to this market, we believe the network will be the intersection
of innovation through an open ecosystem and standards. We expect to see acquisitions, further industry consolidation, and new alliances among companies as they seek to serve the enterprise data center market. As we enter this next market phase,
we expect that we will strengthen certain strategic alliances, compete more with certain strategic alliances and partners, and perhaps also encounter new competitors in our attempt to deliver the best solutions for our customers.

Other market transitions on which we are focusing particular attention include those related to the increased role of video, collaboration, and networked
mobility technologies. The key market transitions relative to the convergence of video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, which we believe will drive productivity and growth in network loads, appear to be evolving even more quickly
and more significantly than we had previously anticipated. Cisco TelePresence systems are one example of product offerings that have incorporated video, collaboration, and networked mobility technologies, as customers evolve their communications and
business models. We are focused on simplifying and expanding the creation, distribution, and use of end-to-end video solutions for businesses and consumers.

We believe that the architectural approach that has served us well in the past in addressing market opportunities in the communications and IT industry will be adaptable to other markets. An example of a
market where we aim to apply this approach is mobility, where growth of IP traffic on handheld devices is driving the need for more robust architectures, equipment and services in order to accommodate not only an increasing number of worldwide
mobile device users, but also increased user demand for broadband-quality business network and consumer web applications to be delivered on such devices.







For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including
the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and
market share may suffer.” For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our current offerings fall into several categories:

Routing

Routing technology is fundamental to the Internet, and this technology interconnects public and private IP networks for mobile, data, voice, and video
applications. Our routing products are designed to enhance the intelligence, security, reliability, scalability, and level of performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications. We offer a broad range of routers, from core
network infrastructure and mobile Internet network for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home. Key products within our routing category are the Cisco 800, 1900, 2900, and
3900 Series Integrated Services Routers as well as the Cisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASR) 1000, 5000 and 9000 Series; Cisco 7600 and 12000 Series Routers; and the Cisco Carrier Routing System (CRS), CRS-1 and CRS-3.

During fiscal 2011, we introduced enhancements to the ASR 9000 System, which complement the Cisco CRS-3 located in the core of the next-generation
Internet. We believe these new enhancements will help enable compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace.

Switching

During fiscal 2011, we continued to enhance our fixed configuration and modular switches to deliver key network services that are designed to
work with Cisco routing, security, and wireless products to enable video collaboration, enterprise-wide energy management, and policy-based security. In fiscal 2011, we also continued to expand on the Cisco Catalyst 4500 processor module by adding a
new supervisor engine and features such as Universal Power over Ethernet to power new applications such as thin clients. This supervisor engine is designed to achieve borderless network access and price-performance aggregation deployments providing
increased fiber density along with hardware capabilities to support aggregation functionalities. In addition, we introduced capabilities in the Nexus 7000 for scale and convergence such as FabricPath and Director-class FCoE. Additionally, we
completely refreshed our flagship Catalyst 6500 platform, tripling the performance, quadrupling the scalability, and adding new services to the platform.







New Products

Video Connected Home

Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital
interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world. These systems consist of products and platforms deployed
in network operation centers, headends, core and edge access networks, and outside plant environments, as well as in homes and businesses. Our range of set-top box product offerings includes both standard IP capable models and radio frequency
models that can securely distribute content, as well as more advanced models with digital video recording options and whole home video capabilities for delivering standard definition and high definition video. We also provide cable modems,
residential gateways, femtocell access points, and other products deployed in homes and businesses

Our home networking strategy aligns with
Cisco’s broader vision to enable consumers to live a connected life that is more personal, social, and visual. Our products connect different devices in the household, allowing people to share Internet access, printers, storage, video, music,
movies, and games throughout the home. Products include routers, adapters, gateways, switches, modems, home network management software, and other products that are designed to provide both tech-savvy and mass-market consumers with rich in-home
experiences. These products are sold through select retailers, value-added resellers, online retailers, and service providers worldwide.

Collaboration

Cisco’s
Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and endpoints—from mobile phones and tablets to desktops, Macs and laptops to desktop virtualization
clients. Specific solutions include IP phones, mobile applications, customer care, web conferencing, messaging, enterprise social software and Cisco TelePresence Systems. These solutions are available as software and web-based collaborative
offerings, standalone devices, integrated components in Cisco routers and switches, and as hosted services in the cloud. Cisco’s strategy is to offer an open, interoperable architecture that enables customers to deliver a consistent
collaboration experience regardless of device, content, location, or interaction style. These capabilities are critical capabilities in today’s era, which requires a collaborative workspace that is mobile, social, visual and
virtual.

During fiscal 2011, Cisco introduced several new Collaboration solutions including: Cisco Quad, an enterprise social software
platform; Cisco Social Miner, a social media solution for proactive customer care; Cisco TelePresence EX90 and MX200 systems designed to easily extend TelePresence to more desktops, offices and meeting spaces; Cisco Jabber, an enterprise application
for presence, instant messaging, web conferencing, desktop sharing, voice and video on mobile devices, laptops and applications; Cisco WebEx for web-based collaboration with presentations, applications, documents, integrated audio and high
quality video on tablets and desktops; and new desktop virtualization endpoints for thin client Collaboration applications.

Security

Cisco security solutions deliver network and content security systems that are designed to enable highly secure collaboration. Our
products in this category span firewall, intrusion prevention, remote access, virtual private networks (VPN), unified client, web and email security and network security. Our AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client enables users to access networks with
their mobile device of choice, such as laptops and smartphone-based mobile devices while allowing organizations to manage the security risks of borderless networks. Our cloud-based web security service is designed to provide real-time threat
protection and to prevent zero-day malware from reaching corporate networks, including roaming or mobile users. We focus on a proactive, layered approach to counter both existing and emerging security threats. We provide security solutions that are
designed to be integrated, timely, comprehensive, and effective, helping to ensure holistic security for organizations worldwide. In addition, Cisco security systems include network and application policy solutions for identity services used in







data centers and collaboration services as a series of network access control and entitlement solutions. A key product line within our security product category is the Cisco ASA 5500 Series
Adaptive Security Appliances line.

Wireless

The Cisco Unified Wireless Network is designed to unify high-performance 802.11n wireless access across campus, branch, remote, and outdoor environments. This wireless system strives to maximize
flexibility and reliability with its access point, controller, antenna, and integrated management products. Simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting are features of the platform designed to reduce operational cost. This platform
delivers, through an open application programming interface (API), business-relevant mobility data, voice, video, and context-aware applications to partners and end-user customers. A current key product line within our wireless technology category
is the Cisco Aironet product family.

Data Center

Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) and Server Virtualization form the core of Cisco’s Data Center products. The UCS platform unites computing, network, storage access, and virtualization into a
cohesive system. Key products within our UCS platform are Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers and Cisco UCS C-Series Rack-Mount Servers supported by fabric interconnects which include our lossless FCoE interconnect switch that consolidates input/output
within the system, server chassis, fabric extenders, and network adapters.

Cisco Application Networking Services consist of a broad portfolio
of application networking solutions designed to enable secure, high performance, reliable delivery of applications within data centers and across WANs to remote and branch office users. Our solutions are designed to help facilitate the deployment
and delivery of business applications across an entire organization by using technology to accelerate, maximize availability of, and secure both application traffic and computing resources. A key product within our application networking services
category is Cisco Wide Area Application Services (WAAS), a comprehensive WAN optimization solution that is enabled for SaaS-based applications and the Integrated Service Router G2’s Services Ready Engine.

We provide storage area networking (SAN) products for data center environments designed to deliver multilayer, scalable, and highly secure connectivity
between servers and storage systems, including products such as storage arrays and tape drives. These products incorporate intelligent network features, such as advanced network security, traffic management, server virtualization, SAN consolidation
and pay-as-you-grow flexibility to permit users to scale from an entry-level departmental switch to edge connectivity in enterprise SANs, and also incorporate tools that are designed to help make storing, retrieving, and protecting critical data
across widely distributed environments more efficient. The Cisco MDS 9000 Series of configurable Fiber Channel fabric switches is currently the key product line within our storage area networking product category.

Other Products

Our Other
Products category primarily consists of optical networking products, emerging technologies such as physical security and video surveillance, and digital media systems.

Service

In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service
offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Technical support services help ensure that our products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system software. These services help
customers protect their network investments and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications. Advanced services are services that are part of a comprehensive program that is designed to provide responsive, preventive,







and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our
service and support strategy seeks to capitalize on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.

Customers and Markets

Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and the
business applications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent
or more of our net sales. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and consumer.

Enterprise

Enterprise businesses
are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multi-vendor
environment. Our enterprise customers also include public sector entities and governments. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We
offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners.

Service Providers

Service
providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless
providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content-providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based
services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, connected home, mobility, and network management products, systems and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco
data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers. These technologies include Cisco Unified Communications and call center products and applications, Cisco WebEx
collaboration tools, and Cisco TelePresence systems products, as well as other video and security products and systems that can be incorporated into network-attached data centers. Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to
require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.

Commercial

Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than
1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise
customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within
the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.

Consumer

Our consumer customers are individuals who use the network at home, or while away from home, for personal use to enjoy a broad range of entertainment,
communications, and information experiences. Cisco’s primary







strategy for serving the consumer market is through its service provider customers, and to a lesser extent through major consumer channels, including through both traditional and online
retailers, through our website, and through value added resellers.

Sales Overview

As of the end of fiscal 2011, our worldwide sales and marketing department consisted of approximately 25,898 employees, including managers, sales
representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in approximately 95 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial
portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, distributors, and retail partners.

Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support,
professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators.

Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers. In addition, home networking products are
generally sold through distributors and retail partners. We refer to sales through distributors and retail partners as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors and retail partners generally is recognized based on a
sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors and retail partners are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in
various cooperative marketing programs.

For information regarding risks related to our channels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,”
including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess
inventory may harm our gross margins.”

For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 1A. Risk
Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets
exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could
harm our operating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses
or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results”, among others.

Our service offerings complement our products
through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.

We provide financing arrangements, such as leases, financed service contracts, and loans, for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a
competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Leases include sales-type, direct financing, and operating leases. We also provide certain qualified customers with the
option of financing long-term service contracts, which primarily relate to technical support services and typically range from one to three years. Our loan financing arrangements may include not only financing for the acquisition of our products and
services, but also may provide additional funds for other costs associated with network installation and integration of our products and services. For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.







Product Backlog

Our product backlog at July 30, 2011, the last day of our 2011 fiscal year, was approximately $4.3 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately $4.1 billion at July 31, 2010, the last
day of our 2010 fiscal year. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional
customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net product sales for any
future period.

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances

The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of technological complexity and rapid
change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to
customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. We employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:



•Developing new technologies and products internally



•Acquiring all or parts of other companies



•Entering into joint-development efforts with other companies



•Reselling other companies’ products

Acquisitions

We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future
acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not
materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with
acquisitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.”

Investments in Privately Held Companies

We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these
investments are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments
could harm our earnings.”

Strategic Alliances

We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can
include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, we have strategic alliances with Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC
Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Corporation; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; SAP AG; Sprint
Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; Xerox Corporation; and others. Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas. The risks associated with our strategic
alliances are more fully







discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from
such alliances and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.”

Competition

We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video
traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors
represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of
competitors may change as we increase our activity in our New Products markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from
competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.

Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Arista Networks,
Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; D-Link Corporation; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5
Networks, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; LogMeIn, Inc.; Meru Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc.;
Motorola Solutions, Inc.; NETGEAR, Inc.; Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; and Symantec Corporation; among others.

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete
and may compete in the future include:



•The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services



•Product performance



•Price



•The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages







•The ability to reduce production costs



•The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection



•Conformance to standards



•Market presence



•The ability to provide financing



•Disruptive technology shifts and new business models

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we
must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results, and financial condition, and accordingly affect our chances of success.

Research and
Development

We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research
and development budget among routers, switches, new products, and other product technologies for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $5.8 billion, $5.3 billion, and $5.2 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of focus are tied to our foundational priorities and include, but are not limited to, our core routing and
switching products, Cisco TelePresence systems products, and the Cisco Unified Computing System. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.

The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our
success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these
objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect
to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they
emerge, such as IP version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes, or that those products will achieve market acceptance.

Manufacturing

We rely on contract manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board
assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The
manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as
comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.

Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and
delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding







capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any
manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis, primarily annually. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts
covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year.

Although we employ an
outsourced manufacturing strategy, as of July 30, 2011 we operated manufacturing facilities in Juarez, Mexico for the manufacture of set-top boxes. We have entered into an agreement to sell these manufacturing operations to a contract
manufacturer, consistent with our strategic objective of simplifying our operating model. The transaction is expected to be completed in fiscal 2012.

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing

We seek to
establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the
United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate
confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing
products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make
our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.

Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future
to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be
no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation
regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive
basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.

The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly
changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged,
invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or, that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect
our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our
proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,” “We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,” and “We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.”

Employees

As
of July 30, 2011, we employed approximately 71,825 employees, including approximately 18,368 in service and manufacturing, approximately 21,112 in engineering, approximately 25,898 in sales and marketing, and







approximately 6,447 in general and administration. Approximately 37,300 employees are in locations within the United States. We expect our headcount to decrease in the near term as part of
targeted cost-cutting initiatives, which include the workforce reduction announced in July 2011. Additionally, we also expect our headcount in fiscal 2012 to decrease by approximately 5,000 employees upon the completion in fiscal 2012 of the sale of
our Juarez, Mexico manufacturing operations.

We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical
personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting
qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows the name, age and position as of August 31, 2011 of each of our executive
officers:





NameAgePosition

Frank A. Calderoni54Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerMr. Calderoni joined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer
Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage
networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation where he held a
number of executive positions.



John T. Chambers62Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorMr. Chambers has served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006 and as a member of the
Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers
was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S.
Operations.



Mark Chandler55Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and SecretaryMr. Chandler joined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom,
Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was
promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to
Senior Vice President. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.









NameAgePosition

Blair Christie39Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing and Communications Officer, Worldwide Government AffairsMs. Christie joined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco’s Investor Relations
team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco’s Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations.In June 2006, Ms.
Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current
position.



Wim Elfrink59Executive Vice President, Emerging Solutions and Chief Globalisation OfficerMr. Elfrink joined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Customer Advocacy in Europe. In
November 2000 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy and took over global responsibility for the function. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to
establish Cisco’s Globalisation Centre East. In August 2007 he was named Executive Vice President. In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position and as of August 2011 he has relocated to San Jose,
California.



Robert W. Lloyd55Executive Vice President, Worldwide OperationsMr. Lloyd joined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East
and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, US, Canada and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to his current position.



Gary B. Moore62Executive Vice President, Chief Operating OfficerMr. Moore joined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco
Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services. In February 2011, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position. Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief
executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems where he held a number of executive positions.



Randy Pond57Executive Vice President, Operations, Processes and SystemsMr. Pond joined Cisco in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond assumed leadership of
Cisco’s Supply/Demand group. In 1994, he was appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In January 2000, Mr. Pond was promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia
operations. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics in June 2001. In August 2003, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Operations, Processes and Systems, and he was named Executive Vice
President in August 2007. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer, and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo Communications.







