Item 1.Business

General

We design, manufacture, and sell Internet Protocol (IP) based networking products and services related to the communications and information technology (IT) industry. Our customers include businesses of all sizes, public institutions, telecommunications companies, other service providers and individuals. We connect people, process, data and things with products that transport data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, and around the world. We are a key strategic partner to companies that helps them as they seek to make the most of the Internet of Everything (IoE) and connect the unconnected.

We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC).  For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report.

As part of our business focus on the network as the platform for all forms of communications and IT, our products and services are designed to help our customers use technology to address their business imperatives and opportunities—driving growth, improving productivity, reducing costs, mitigating risk, and gaining a competitive advantage. We deliver networking products and solutions designed to simplify and secure customers’ network infrastructures and help them connect more effectively with their key stakeholders, including their customers, prospects, business partners, suppliers, and employees. We continually focus on delivering products and solutions that leverage the network to most effectively address market transitions. In recent periods, we have developed and delivered products and services to address the transitions driven by virtualization, cloud, software, collaboration, and video. Our products and technologies are grouped into the following categories:  Switching; Next-Generation Network (NGN) Routing; Service Provider Video; Collaboration; Data Center; Wireless; Security; and Other Products. We believe that integrating products and services into architectures and solutions helps our customers reduce their operational complexity, increase their agility, and reduce their total cost of network ownership.

Network architectures, developed from our core routing and switching technologies, are evolving to accommodate the demands of increasing numbers of users, network applications, and new network-related markets. These new markets are a natural extension of our core business and have emerged as the network has become the platform for provisioning, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of IT-based products and services.









Strategy and Focus Areas

Our strategy is to deliver the integrated architectures, solutions, and outcomes to help our customers grow, manage costs, and mitigate risk. We see our customers, in almost every industry, becoming increasingly reliant on technology—and specifically the network—to meet their business objectives and compete successfully in the market.

Our focus continues to be on capitalizing on market transitions to maintain leadership in our core markets and to enter new markets where the network is foundational.  We believe this focus best positions us to become a more relevant and trusted partner to our customers and to expand our share of our customers’ IT spending.  We are focused on driving the innovation, speed, agility, and efficiencies in our company required to deliver leading technology solutions for our customers and shareholder value for our investors.

Over the last few years, we have been working to transform our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions, as well as to meet customers' business outcomes. As a part of this transformation, we are making changes to how we are organized and how we deliver our technology.  We believe these changes enable us to better meet our customers’ requirements and help them stay ahead of market transitions.

As part of the ongoing transformation of our business, we continue to drive product transitions in our core business, including the introduction of next-generation products with better price-performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors. We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth in certain of the new products, but we do continue to manage through the transitions of several of our existing key product platforms, and we continue to see the impact thereof on our overall core performance.  Going forward, a focus on utilizing our core products within the integrated solutions that we provide customers to meet their business outcomes will be a critical part of our strategy.

In our view our routing and switching product leadership has been foundational to our success in the data center market. We initially captured the market transition to converged infrastructure, bringing together networking, compute, and storage into one integrated architecture with the Unified Computing System (UCS). We continue to expand the opportunity relating to UCS, including incorporating the UCS solution within our solutions for cloud and virtualization.  We believe that disruption in the enterprise data center market is accelerating, due to changing technology trends that, we believe, depend on an intelligent network—trends such as network virtualization, cloud, and the increased demands of applications. To take advantage of our position in our customers' network infrastructure, we are implementing strategies and offering strong products to address each of these major transitions, including:

•Virtualization, which we refer to as the process of creating a virtual, or nonphysical, version of a device or resource, such as a server, storage device, network, or operating system, in such a way that users as well as other devices and resources are able to interact with the virtual resource as if it were an actual physical resource.

•The cloud, which we refer to as an IT hosting and delivery system in which resources, such as servers or software applications, are no longer tethered to a user’s physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user “on demand” as an Internet-based service, whether singularly or with multiple other users simultaneously.

We also remain focused on continued investment in our services portfolio, tightly integrated with our product portfolio, to deliver the solutions our customers want. A few examples of new service offerings include security services, cloud and managed services and consulting services.

Among our other areas of focus are:

•Our security products, where we are seeing strong momentum as we integrate our recently acquired Sourcefire, Inc.  ("Sourcefire") portfolio into an integrated security architecture

•Our collaboration products, where we have recently introduced an entirely new portfolio of products designed to deliver a much richer experience at much lower price points

•Our wireless products, where we are seeing strong growth of our cloud networking business, which we acquired from Meraki, Inc.

•Our software offerings, where we are focused on delivering our technology and solutions via new license models by which we seek to increase our recurring revenue









Market Transitions

We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions as sources of future revenue opportunities as part of the continued transformation of our business, and we believe market transitions in the IT industry are occurring with greater frequency.  Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a cost center issue—where the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivity—to becoming a platform for revenue generation, business agility, and competitive advantage.

Virtualization/Application CentricityWe are also focusing on a market transition involving the move toward more programmable, flexible, and virtual networks, sometimes called software defined networking, or SDN.  This transition is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers’ total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability, and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area.

We believe the promise of SDN is to enable more open and programmable network infrastructure.  We are addressing this opportunity with a unique strategy and set of solutions that is designed to address the application demands transition and offers a holistic approach to the future of networking that responds automatically to the needs of applications.  We introduced and began shipping our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI), which delivers centralized application-driven policy automation, management, and visibility of both physical and virtual environments as a single system.  ACI is comprised of our Nexus 9000 portfolio of switches, enhanced versions of our NX-OS operating system, and the Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC), which provides a central place to configure, automate, and manage an entire network, based on the needs of applications.

CloudOur Intercloud strategy seeks to leverage our application centric infrastructure together with our partners to deliver, we believe, the first global open network of highly secure hybrid cloud environments. We believe that customers and partners view our approach to the cloud as differentiated and unique, recognizing that we offer a solution to federated, private, hybrid, and public clouds that enables them to move their cloud workloads across heterogeneous private and public clouds with the necessary policy, security, and management features. With our InterCloud solution, we aim to build upon the leadership we have established in the private cloud market and as a cloud infrastructure provider.

For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.” For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.









Products and Services

Our current offerings fall into several categories:

Switching

Switching is an integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, wireless access points, and servers and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions.  Key product platforms within our Switching product category, in which we also include storage products, are as follows:

Fixed-Configuration SwitchesModular SwitchesStorageCisco Catalyst Series:Cisco Catalyst Series:Cisco MDS Series:• Cisco Catalyst 2960-X Series• Cisco Catalyst 4500-E Series• Cisco MDS 9000• Cisco Catalyst 3650 Series• Cisco Catalyst 6500-E Series• Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series• Cisco Catalyst 6800 Series• Cisco Catalyst 4500-X SeriesCisco Nexus Series:Cisco Nexus Series:• Cisco Nexus 2000 Series• Cisco Nexus 7000 Series• Cisco Nexus 3000 Series• Cisco Nexus 9000 Series• Cisco Nexus 5000 Series• Cisco Nexus 6000 Series

Fixed-configuration switchesare designed to cover a range of deployments in both large enterprises as well as in small and medium-sized businesses, providing a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. Our fixed configuration switches range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit.

Modular switches are typically used by enterprise and service provider customers with large-scale network needs.  These products are designed to offer customers the flexibility and scalability to deploy numerous, as well as advanced, networking services without degrading overall network performance.

Fixed-configuration and modular switches also include products such as optics modules, which are shared across multiple product platforms.

Our switching portfolio also includes virtual switches and related offerings.  These products provide switching functionality for virtual machines and are designed to operate in a complementary fashion with virtual services to optimize security and application behavior.

During fiscal 2014, we continued to see increased market acceptance of switches we introduced in the previous fiscal year, including our Cisco Catalyst 2960-X, Cisco Catalyst 3850 and Cisco Catalyst 6800 Series switches.  We announced our application-centric-infrastructure solution, Cisco ACI, in fiscal 2014.  Cisco ACI consists of the new Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches, a Cisco Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC) and accompanying centralized policy management capability, a Cisco Application Virtual Switch (AVS), integrated physical and virtual infrastructure, and an open ecosystem of network, storage, management, and orchestration vendors.  Key characteristics of Cisco ACI include simplified automation by an application-driven policy model, centralized visibility and vigilance with real-time application monitoring, open software flexibility for development and operations teams and ecosystem partner integration capability, and scalable performance in hardware.

Individually, our switching suite of products is designed to offer the performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and network cores to highly virtualized and converged corporate data centers. Working together with our wireless access solutions, these switches are, in our view, the building blocks of an integrated network that delivers scalable and advanced functionality solutions—protecting, optimizing, and growing as a customer’s business needs evolve.









NGN Routing

NGN technology is fundamental to the foundation of the Internet.  This category of technologies interconnects public and private wireline and mobile networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our NGN Routing portfolio of hardware and software solutions consists primarily of physical and virtual routers and routing systems.  Our solutions are designed to meet the scale, reliability, and security needs of our customers.  In our view, our portfolio is differentiated from those of our competitors through the advanced capabilities, which we sometimes refer to as “intelligence,” that our products provide at each layer of network infrastructure to deliver performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications.

As to specific products, we offer a broad range of hardware and software solutions, from core network infrastructure and mobile network routing solutions for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home.  Key product areas within our NGN Routing category are as follows:

High-End RoutersMidrange and Low-End RoutersOther NGN RoutingCisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASRs):Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISRs):Optical networking products:• Cisco ASR 901, 902, and 903 Series• Cisco 800 Series ISRCisco Cloud Services Router 1000V• Cisco ASR 1000 Series• Cisco 1900 Series ISROther routing products• Cisco ASR 5000 and 5500 Series• Cisco 2900 Series ISR• Cisco ASR 9000 Series• Cisco 3900 Series ISRCisco Carrier Routing Systems (CRS):• Cisco ISR-AX• Cisco CRS-1 Carrier Router• Cisco CRS-3 Multishelf System• Cisco CRS-X• Cisco 7600 SeriesCisco Network Convergence System (NCS):• Cisco NCS 2000 Series• Cisco NCS 4000 Series• Cisco NCS 6000 SeriesCisco Quantum Software SuiteSmall cell access routers

During fiscal 2014, we continued to add new capabilities, including a new platform in our high-end routers known as the Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS).  In fiscal 2014, we also made several enhancements to our Cisco ASR series of products.   We also continue to provide enhancements to our NGN Routing portfolio through our architectural approach, which consists of a programmable network at the foundation and a services platform that connects the network to applications and services.  Our solutions seek to combine silicon, systems, and software to enable the next-generation IoE and compelling new experiences for consumers, new revenue opportunities for service providers, and new ways to collaborate in the workplace.









Service Provider Video

Our end-to-end, digital video distribution systems and digital interactive set-top boxes enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world.   Key product areas within our Service Provider Video category are as follows:

Service Provider Video InfrastructureVideo Software and SolutionsSet-top boxes:• Content security systems• IP set-top boxes• Digital content management products• Digital cable set-top boxes• Digital headend products• Digital transport adapters• Digital media network products• Integration and customization offeringsCable/Telecommunications Access:• Service provider video software solutions (Videoscape)• Cable modem termination systems (CMTS)• Hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) access network products• Quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) productsCable modems:• Data modems• Embedded media terminal adapters• Wireless gateways

During fiscal 2014, we continued to leverage technologies obtained through our fiscal 2013 acquisition of NDS Group Limited (“NDS”), a provider of video software and content security solutions.  We have included all of our revenue from NDS within the Service Provider Video product category.  Specifically, we have integrated NDS products with Cisco Videoscape, our comprehensive content delivery platform designed to enable service providers and media companies to deliver next-generation entertainment experiences.

Collaboration

Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and related IT equipment—sometimes collectively referred to as "endpoints"—that people use to access networks,  such as mobile phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients.   Key product areas within our Collaboration category are as follows:

Unified CommunicationsWeb-Based Collaboration OfferingsCisco TelePresence Systems• IP phones• Cisco WebEx meeting server• Collaboration desk endpoints• Call center and messaging products• Cisco WebEx meeting center• Collaboration room endpoints• Call control• Immersive systems• Software-based, IM clients• Cisco TelePresence server and video conferencing infrastructure• Communication gateways and unified communication applications and subscriptions• Cisco TelePresence integration solutions

We include all of our revenue from WebEx within the Collaboration product category. During fiscal 2014, our collaboration offerings expanded within the Cisco TelePresence Systems collaboration desk endpoints category, including the Cisco Desktop Collaboration DX70 and DX80 offerings which offer high-definition voice and video communications, integrated collaboration, ten-point touchscreen, end-user personalization, and cloud readiness.  We also added room-based endpoints with our Cisco TelePresence MX700 and MX800 offerings, which are designed to provide an all-in-one solution for medium to large meeting rooms.  Also, within our Cisco TelePresence systems product category, for our enterprise customers we added Cisco Business Edition 7000, a stackable, modular server solution designed to consolidate multiple collaboration applications onto a single integrated platform.











Data Center

Our Data Center product category has been our fastest growing major product category for each of the past four fiscal years.  The Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS) unites computing, networking, storage, management, and virtualization into a single fabric-based platform designed to simplify operations and provide business agility through rapid deployment and scaling of application infrastructure.  UCS is specifically designed for virtualization and automation and enables on-demand provisioning from shared pools of infrastructure across physical and virtual environments.

Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows:

Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS):• Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers• Cisco UCS C-Series Rack Servers• Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects• Cisco UCS Manager and Cisco UCS Central Software• Cisco UCS Director• Cisco UCS Invicta SeriesServer Access Virtualization:• Cisco Nexus 1000V• Cisco Nexus 1000V InterCloud



During fiscal 2014 we expanded the network management capabilities of our Cisco UCS Central Software offerings, further enhancing Cisco UCS management capabilities to encompass thousands of servers across one or many data centers.  Additionally, we continued to invest in data center infrastructure management and automation software within our Cisco UCS Director product offering. We also introduced new UCS blade and rack servers which address large-scale databases, data analytics, and business intelligence, and we also introduced the Cisco UCS Invicta Series, which aims to simplify the data center through the use of flash technology to maximize operational efficiency by improving handling of data-intensive application workloads.   During fiscal 2014, Cisco UCS added flash memory to its portfolio of products as a result of our acquisition of WhipTail Technologies, Inc. ("WhipTail"), a provider of high-performance, scalable solid-state memory systems, which occurred in the second quarter of fiscal 2014.

Our fiscal 2014 Data Center product innovations were designed to accelerate execution on our strategy, which is to enable customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads—taking into account customer's unique application requirements—onto a single scalable, centrally managed, and automated system.  This strategy has resulted in a portfolio of solutions designed to preserve customer choice, accelerate business initiatives, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represent a comprehensive solution when deployed.

Wireless

Wireless access via wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) is a fast-growing technology with organizations across the globe investing to provide indoor and outdoor coverage with seamless roaming for voice, video, and data applications.  We aim to deliver an optimized user experience over Wi-Fi and leverage the intelligence of the network to solve business problems.  Our wireless solutions include wireless access points; standalone, switch-converged, and cloud-managed solutions; and network managed services.  Our wireless solutions portfolio is enhanced with security and location-based services via our Mobility Services Engine (MSE) solution.  Our offerings provide users with simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting features designed to reduce operational cost and maximize flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in customized chipset development toward the goal of delivering innovative radio frequency (RF) product functionality; our CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, our ClientLink solution for mobile devices, and our VideoStream video optimization technology are illustrations of recent investment activity in this area.

Key product areas within our Wireless category are as follows:

Cisco Aironet SeriesAccess point modules for 3600 Series (802.11ac, 3G, WSSI, LTE/4G) and 3700 SeriesControllers (standalone and integrated)Meraki wireless cloud solutions









In fiscal 2014, the Connected Mobile Experience (CMX), a Wi-Fi location data analytics platform we introduced in fiscal 2013, continued to experience positive momentum as customers seek new monetization opportunities.  Our fiscal 2013 acquisitions of Meraki, Inc. (“Meraki”), a cloud-managed networking company, and ThinkSmart Technologies Limited, a specialist in Wi-Fi data location analytics, in our view bolster our Unified Access platform by providing scalable, easy-to-deploy, on-premise networking solutions that can be centrally managed from the cloud.

Security

With the IoE creating what we believe to be a potentially significant opportunity, security is a significant business concern, and we believe it is a top investment priority of our customers.  More people, processes, and devices than ever before are connected to the Internet, causing an escalation of security threats which can result in—where such security threats become actual security breaches—loss of revenue, intellectual property, and reputation.  Our security portfolio of products and services is designed to offer a comprehensive solution that collects and shares intelligence with a coordinated focus on threats across the entire attack continuum—before, during, and after an attack.    These solutions include network security, web and email security, cloud web security, advanced malware protection, data center security, and network admission control and identity services.  Our security solutions and services are designed to protect customers from the network to the cloud to the endpoint, through a network-integrated architecture.

During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we completed our acquisition of Sourcefire, a provider of intelligent cybersecurity solutions.  Sourcefire delivers innovative, highly automated security through continuous awareness, threat detection, and protection across its portfolio, including next-generation intrusion prevention systems, next-generation firewalls, and advanced malware protection.  In fiscal 2014 we announced new solutions in advanced malware protection and network security that included integration of our Sourcefire products with products obtained from our fiscal 2013 acquisition of Cognitive Security.  We also introduced OpenAppID, an open source application detection solution designed to allow customers to create, share, and implement custom application detection so they can address new application-based threats as quickly as possible.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we acquired ThreatGRID, Inc., a leader in dynamic malware analysis and threat intelligence technology.  ThreatGRID's private and public cloud technology combines dynamic malware analysis with analytics and actionable indicators with the goal of enabling security teams to proactively defend against and quickly respond to advanced cyber attacks and malware outbreaks.   With the ThreatGRID acquisition, we aim to strengthen our advanced threat protection security offering.

Other Products

Our Other Products category primarily consists of certain emerging technologies and other networking products.

Service

In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services.

Technical support services help our customers ensure their products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system and application software that we have developed. These services help customers protect their network investments, manage risk, and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications.  A key example of this is our Cisco Smart Services offering, whichleverages the intelligence from Cisco’s millions of devices and customer connections to protect and optimize network investment for our customers and partners.

Advanced services are part of a comprehensive program that is focused on providing responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy is focused on capitalizing on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.











Customers and Markets

Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and business applications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment. In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector.

Enterprise

Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services, primarily through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.

Service Providers

Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. They include regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, mobility, and network management products, systems, and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers.  Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.

Commercial

Generally, we define commercial businesses as companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.

Public Sector

Public sector entities include federal governments, state and local governments, as well as educational institution customers.   Many public sector entities have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment.  We sell to public sector entities through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.

Sales Overview

As of the end of fiscal2014, our worldwide sales and marketing departments consisted of24,740employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in 94 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors.

Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators.

Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.  We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.

For information regarding risks related to our channels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.”









For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results,” among others.

Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and software maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.

Financing Arrangements

We provide financing arrangements for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.   Our financing arrangements include the following:

Leases:• Sales-type• Direct financing• OperatingLoansFinanced service contracts

For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Product Backlog

Our product backlog atJuly 26, 2014, the last day of fiscal2014, was approximately$5.4 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately$4.9 billionatJuly 27, 2013, the last day of fiscal2013. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual product revenue for any future period.

Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances

The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. Our growth strategy is based on the three components of innovation, which we sometimes refer to as our “build, buy, and partner” approach.  The foregoing is a way of describing how we strive to innovate: we can internally develop, or build, our own innovative solutions; we can acquire, or buy, companies with innovative technologies; and we can partner with companies to jointly develop and/or resell product technologies and innovations.  The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. To summarize, we employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:

•Developing new technologies and products internally

•Acquiring all or parts of other companies

•Entering into joint development efforts with other companies

•Reselling other companies’ products

Acquisitions

We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk









factor entitled “We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.”

Investments in Privately Held Companies

We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.”

Strategic Alliances

We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new market creation. Companies with which we have, or recently had, strategic alliances include the following:

Accenture Ltd; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; Red Hat, Inc.; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC (“VCE”); VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others.

Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.”

Competition

We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our new product markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.

Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Aruba Networks, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation;  Motorola Solutions, Inc.; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.;  Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; Ruckus Wireless, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; and VMware, Inc.; among others.









The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:

•The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services

•Product performance

•Price

•The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages

•The ability to reduce production costs

•The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection

•Conformance to standards

•Market presence

•The ability to provide financing

•Disruptive technology shifts and new business models

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.

Research and Development

We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among our product categories, which consist of Switching, NGN Routing, Service Provider Video, Collaboration, Wireless, Data Center, Security, and Other Product technologies, for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $6.3 billion,$5.9 billion, and$5.5 billionin fiscal2014,2013, and2012, respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of increased focus include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products, collaboration, and  products related to the data center. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.

The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. We intend to continue developing products that meet key industry standards and to support important protocol standards as they emerge, such as IP Version 6. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that those products will achieve market acceptance.

Manufacturing

We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.

Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year.









Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.

Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.

The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,” “We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,” and “We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.”

Employees

Employees are summarized as follows:

July 26, 2014Employees by geography:United States36,725Rest of world37,317Total74,042Employees by line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations:Cost of sales(1)16,348Research and development25,837Sales and marketing24,740General and administrative7,117Total74,042

(1)Cost of sales includes manufacturing support, services, and training.

We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.









Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows the name, age, and position as of August 31, 2014 of each of our executive officers:

NameAgePosition with the CompanyFrank A. Calderoni57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJohn T. Chambers65Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and DirectorMark Chandler58Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance OfficerBlair Christie42Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing OfficerWim Elfrink62Executive Vice President, Industry Solutions and Chief Globalisation OfficerRobert W. Lloyd58President, Development and SalesGary B. Moore65President and Chief Operating OfficerPankaj Patel60Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer, Global EngineeringCharles H. Robbins48Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations

Mr. Calderonijoined Cisco in May 2004 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales Finance. In June 2007, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Customer Solutions Finance. He was appointed to his current position effective in February 2008. From March 2002 until he joined Cisco, Mr. Calderoni served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of QLogic Corporation, a supplier of storage networking solutions. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SanDisk Corporation from February 2000 to February 2002. Prior to that, he was employed by IBM Corporation, where he held a number of executive positions.  Mr. Calderoni also serves on the Board of Directors of Adobe Systems Incorporated and Nimble Storage, Inc.

Mr. Chambershas served as Chief Executive Officer since January 1995, as Chairman of the Board of Directors since November 2006, and as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers also served as President from January 31, 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994. Mr. Chambers was promoted to President and Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 1995. Before joining Cisco, he was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations.

Mr. Chandlerjoined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel, and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, and in May 2012 was appointed Chief Compliance Officer. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.

Ms. Christiejoined Cisco in August 1999 as part of Cisco’s Investor Relations team. From April 2000 through December 2003, Ms. Christie held a number of managerial positions within Cisco’s Investor Relations function. In January 2004, Ms. Christie was promoted to Vice President, Investor Relations. In June 2006, Ms. Christie was appointed to Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2008, Ms. Christie was promoted to Senior Vice President, Global Corporate Communications. In January 2011, Ms. Christie was appointed to her current position.

Mr. Elfrinkjoined Cisco in 1997 as Vice President of Cisco Services in Europe. In November 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Cisco Services and took over global responsibility for the function, relocating to San Jose, California. Mr. Elfrink was appointed Chief Globalisation Officer in December 2006 and moved to Bangalore, India to establish Cisco’s Globalisation Centre East.  In August 2007, he was named Executive Vice President.  In February 2011, Mr. Elfrink was appointed to his current position, in which heheads three of Cisco’s global initiatives: Cisco’s Industry Solutions Group, the Emerging Countries initiatives, and Cisco’s globalisation strategy.

Mr. Lloydjoined Cisco in November 1994 as General Manager of Cisco Canada. In October 1998, he was promoted to Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa); in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, EMEA; and in July 2005, Mr. Lloyd was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S., Canada, and Japan. In April 2009, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations.  In October 2012, Mr. Lloyd was appointed to his current position.









Mr. Moorejoined Cisco in October 2001 as Senior Vice President, Advanced Services. In August 2007, he also assumed responsibility as co-lead of Cisco Services. In May 2010, he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Cisco Services, and in February 2011, he was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  In October 2012, Mr. Moore was appointed to his current position.  Immediately before joining Cisco, Mr. Moore served for approximately two years as chief executive officer of Netigy Corporation, a network consulting company. Prior to that, he was employed by Electronic Data Systems, where he held a number of senior executive positions.

Mr. Pateljoined Cisco in July 1996 upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., serving from July 1996 through September 1999 as a Senior Director of Engineering.  From November 1999 through January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President of Engineering at Redback Networks Inc., a networking equipment provider later acquired by Ericsson.  In January 2003, Mr. Patel rejoined Cisco as Vice President and General Manager, Cable Business Unit, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in July 2005.  In January 2006, Mr. Patel was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Service Provider Business and, additionally, in May 2011 became co-leader of Engineering. In June 2012, Mr. Patel assumed the leadership of Engineering.  In August 2012, Mr. Patel was promoted to his current position.

Mr. Robbinsjoined Cisco in December 1997, from which time until March 2002 he held a number of managerial positions within Cisco’s sales organization. Mr. Robbins was promoted to Vice President in March 2002, assuming leadership of Cisco’s U.S. channel sales organization.  Additionally, in July 2005 he assumed leadership of Cisco’s Canada channel sales organization.  In December 2007, Mr. Robbins was promoted to Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial, and in August 2009 he was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S. Enterprise, Commercial and Canada. In July 2011, Mr. Robbins was named Senior Vice President, Americas.  In October 2012, Mr. Robbins was promoted to his current position.















