Item 1.Business

General

Cisco designs and sells broad lines of products, provides services and delivers integrated solutions to develop and connect networks around the world, building the Internet.  Over the last 30 plus years, we have been the world’s leader in connecting people, things and technologies - to each other and to the Internet - realizing our vision of changing the way the world works, lives, plays and learns.

Today, we have over 70,000 employees in over 400 offices worldwide who design, produce, sell, and deliver integrated products, services, and solutions. Over time, we have expanded to new markets that are a natural extension of our core networking business, as the network has become the platform for automating, orchestrating, integrating, and delivering an ever-increasing array of information technology (IT)–based products and services.

We conduct our business globally and manage our business by geography. Our business is organized into the following three geographic segments: The Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific, Japan, and China (APJC).  For revenue and other information regarding these segments, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our products and technologies are grouped into the following categories: Switching; Next-Generation Network (NGN) Routing; Collaboration; Service Provider Video; Data Center; Wireless; Security; and Other Products. In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services. Increasingly, we are delivering our technology and services to our customers as solutions for their priorities including cloud, video, mobility, security, collaboration, and analytics. The network is  at the center of these markets and technologies, and we are focused on delivering  integrated solutions to help our customers achieve their desired business outcomes. Cisco customers include businesses of all sizes, public institutions, governments and communications service providers. They look to Cisco as a strategic partner to help them use  IT to enable, differentiate or fundamentally define their business strategy and drive growth, improve productivity, reduce costs, mitigate risk, and gain a competitive advantage in an increasingly digital world.

We were incorporated in California in December 1984, and our headquarters are in San Jose, California. The mailing address of our headquarters is 170 West Tasman Drive, San Jose, California 95134-1706, and our telephone number at that location is (408) 526-4000. Our website is www.cisco.com. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this report.











Strategy and Focus Areas

We see our customers, in every industry, increasingly using technology—and, specifically, the network—to grow their business, drive efficiencies, and try to gain a competitive advantage.  In this increasingly digital world, data is the most strategic asset and is increasingly distributed across every organization and ecosystem—on customer premises, at the edge of the network, and in the cloud.  The network also plays an increasingly important role enabling our customers to aggregate, automate, and draw insights from this highly distributed data where there is a premium on security and speed. This is driving them to adopt entirely new IT architectures and organizational structures. We understand how technology can deliver the outcomes our customers want to achieve, and our strategy is to lead our customers in their digital transition with solutions including pervasive, industry-leading security that intelligently connect nearly everything that can be connected.

To deliver on our strategy, we are focused on providing highly secure, automated and intelligent solutions built on infrastructure that connects data that is highly distributed (globally dispersed across organizations).  Together with our ecosystem of partners and developers, we aim to provide the technology, services, and solutions that we believe will enable our customers to gain insight and advantage from this distributed data with scale, security and agility.

Over the last few years, we have been transforming our business to move from selling individual products and services to selling products and services integrated into architectures and solutions. As a part of this transformation, we continue to make changes to how we are organized and how we build and deliver our technology.  We are focused on how we accelerate what is working and change what is not, simplify our business and our communication, drive operational rigor in everything we do, and invest in our culture and our talent.

We will strive to continue to lead the market transitions in our core markets and enter new markets where the network is foundational, in order to further our strategy.  We continue to drive product transitions across many of our businesses, including the introduction of next-generation products that offer, in our view, better price-performance and architectural advantages compared with both our prior generation of products and the product offerings of our competitors.  We believe that many of these product transitions are gaining momentum based on the strong year-over-year product revenue growth for certain of the new products. We do continue to manage through the transitions of several of our existing key product platforms, and we continue to see the impact of those transitions on our overall core performance.  As we go forward, we plan to continue to deliver innovation across our portfolio, in order to sustain our leadership and strategic position with customers.

Market Transitions

We continue to seek to capitalize on market transitions as sources of future revenue opportunities as part of the continued transformation of our business, and we believe market transitions in the IT industry are occurring with greater frequency.  Market transitions relating to the network are becoming, in our view, more significant as intelligent networks have moved from being a cost center issue—where the focus is on reducing network operating costs and increasing network-related productivity—to becoming a platform for revenue generation, business agility, and competitive advantage.  Some examples of significant market transitions are as follows:

Digitization/Internet of EverythingGlobally, countries, cities, industries and businesses are becoming digital to capitalize on the next wave of the Internet - the Internet of Everything (IoE), which we define as the connection of people, processes, data and things.  When people, processes, data and things are connected, we believe it creates an opportunity to deliver better customer experiences, create new revenue streams and operating models to drive efficiency and produce value.

Our goal is to be a strategic partner to our customers by providing the solutions, people, partners and experience as our customers move from traditional to digital businesses.   We believe our customers’ journey to becoming digital businesses requires security, cloud, mobile, social and analytic technologies with a strong foundation of an intelligent network that is agile, simple and that provides real time business insight.

The move to digital is driving many of our customers to adopt entirely new IT architectures and organization structures. In our view, we are delivering the architectural approach and solution-based results to help them reduce complexity, accelerate and grow, and manage risk in a world that is increasingly virtualized, application centric, cloud-based, analytics-driven, and mobile.

Virtualization/Application CentricityWe are focusing on a market transition involving the move toward more programmable, flexible, and virtual networks, sometimes called software defined networking (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV).  This transition is focused on moving from a hardware-centric approach for networking to a virtualized network environment that is designed to enable flexible, application-driven customization of network infrastructures. We believe the successful products and solutions in this market will combine application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) with hardware and software elements together to meet customers’ total cost of ownership, quality, security, scalability, and experience requirements. In our view, there is no single architecture that supports all customer requirements in this area.









We believe the promise of SDN is to enable more open and programmable network infrastructure.  We are addressing this opportunity with a unique strategy and set of solutions that is designed to address the application demands transition and offers a holistic approach to the future of networking that responds automatically to the needs of applications.  We introduced and began shipping our Application Centric Infrastructure (ACI), which delivers centralized application-driven policy automation, management, and visibility of both physical and virtual environments as a single system.  ACI is comprised of our Nexus 9000 portfolio of switches, enhanced versions of our NX-OS operating system, and the Application Policy Infrastructure Controller (APIC), which provides a central place to configure, automate, and manage an entire network, based on the needs of applications.

CloudOur cloud strategy is to connect private and public clouds working across hypervisors (software programs used to create and manage virtual environments), and utilizing OpenStack (an open source computing platform), to deliver integrated hybrid-cloud solutions.  We believe clouds need to be secure and support a rich ecosystem of network-enabled applications to deliver the data and analytics that support the digitization of our customers' environments. As part of our cloud strategy, we are delivering infrastructure, our Intercloud Fabric software, and our cloud services including WebEx and Meraki, among other applications.

We believe that customers and partners view our approach to the cloud as differentiated and unique, recognizing that we offer a solution to different cloud environments including federated, private, hybrid, and public clouds that enables them to move their cloud workloads across heterogeneous private and public clouds with the necessary policy, security, and management features.

For a discussion of the risks associated with our strategy, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing products, and if we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and customers’ changing needs, our operating results and market share may suffer.” For information regarding sales of our major products and services, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Products and Services

Our current offerings fall into several categories:

Switching

Switching is an integral networking technology used in campuses, branch offices, and data centers. Switches are used within buildings in local-area networks (LANs) and across great distances in wide-area networks (WANs). Our switching products offer many forms of connectivity to end users, workstations, IP phones, wireless access points, and servers and also function as aggregators on LANs and WANs. Our switching systems employ several widely used technologies, including Ethernet, Power over Ethernet, Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE), Packet over Synchronous Optical Network, and Multiprotocol Label Switching. Many of our switches are designed to support an integrated set of advanced services, allowing organizations to be more efficient by using one switch for multiple networking functions rather than multiple switches to accomplish the same functions.  Key product platforms within our Switching product category, in which we also include storage products, are as follows:

Fixed-Configuration SwitchesModular SwitchesStorageCisco Catalyst Series:Cisco Catalyst Series:Cisco MDS Series:• Cisco Catalyst 2960-X Series• Cisco Catalyst 4500-E Series• Cisco MDS 9000• Cisco Catalyst 3650 Series• Cisco Catalyst 6500-E Series• Cisco Catalyst 3850 Series• Cisco Catalyst 6800 Series• Cisco Catalyst 4500-X SeriesCisco Nexus Series:Cisco Nexus Series:• Cisco Nexus 2000 Series• Cisco Nexus 7000 Series• Cisco Nexus 3000 Series• Cisco Nexus 9000 Series• Cisco Nexus 5000 Series• Cisco Nexus 6000 Series

Fixed-configuration switchesare designed to cover a range of deployments in both large enterprises as well as in small and medium-sized businesses, providing a foundation for converged data, voice, and video services. Our fixed-configuration switches range from small, standalone switches to stackable models that function as a single, scalable switching unit.

Modular switches are typically used by enterprise and service provider customers with large-scale network needs.  These products are designed to offer customers the flexibility and scalability to deploy numerous, as well as advanced, networking services without degrading overall network performance.

Fixed-configuration and modular switches also include products such as optics modules, which are shared across multiple product platforms. Our switching portfolio also includes virtual switches and related offerings. These products provide switching









functionality for virtual machines and are designed to operate in a complementary fashion with virtual services to optimize security and application behavior.

We announced our ACI solution, Cisco ACI, in fiscal 2014.  Cisco ACI consists of the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches, a Cisco APIC and accompanying centralized policy management capability, integrated physical and virtual infrastructure, and an open ecosystem of network, storage, management, and orchestration vendors.  During fiscal 2015, we have seen rapid adoption of both the Cisco Nexus 9000 Series Switches and Cisco ACI across all geographies and customer segments.  As of the end of fiscal 2015, we have over 4,100 Cisco Nexus 9000 and Cisco ACI customers.

In fiscal 2015, we saw the continued adoption of Cisco’s Unified Access architecture based on the Unified Access Data Plane ASIC, which was first made available on the Cisco Catalyst 3850 and then added to the Cisco Catalyst 4500-E and the Cisco Catalyst 3650.  The Unified Access platform has been adopted across all geographies and customer segments. During fiscal 2015, we announced an infrastructure initiative focused on bringing “network as a sensor” and “network as an enforcer” capabilities across the portfolio. With security as top of mind for many clients, these capabilities provide analytics and control through the network for threat mitigation before, during, and after an attack.

Individually, our switching suite of products is designed to offer the performance and features required for nearly any deployment, from traditional small workgroups, wiring closets, and network cores to highly virtualized and converged corporate data centers. Working together with our wireless access solutions, these switches are, in our view, the building blocks of an integrated network that delivers scalable and advanced functionality solutions—protecting, optimizing, and growing as a customer’s business needs evolve.

NGN Routing

NGN technology is fundamental to the foundation of the Internet.  This category of technologies interconnects public and private wireline and mobile networks for mobile, data, voice, and video applications. Our NGN Routing portfolio of hardware and software solutions consists primarily of physical and virtual routers, and routing and optical systems.  Our solutions are designed to meet the scale, reliability, and security needs of our customers.  In our view, our portfolio is differentiated from those of our competitors through the advanced capabilities, which we sometimes refer to as “intelligence,” that our products provide at each layer of network infrastructure to deliver performance in the transmission of information and media-rich applications.

As to specific products, we offer a broad range of hardware and software solutions, from core network infrastructure and mobile network routing solutions for service providers and enterprises to access routers for branch offices and for telecommuters and consumers at home.  Key product areas within our NGN Routing category are as follows:

High-End RoutersMidrange and Low-End RoutersOther NGN RoutingCisco Aggregation Services Routers (ASRs):Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISRs):Optical networking products:• Cisco ASR 901, 902, and 903 Series• Cisco 800 Series ISR• Cisco NCS 2000 Series• Cisco ASR 1000 Series• Cisco 1900 Series ISR• Cisco NCS 4000 Series• Cisco ASR 5000 and 5500 Series• Cisco 2900 Series ISR• Cisco Cloud Services Router 1000V• Cisco ASR 9000 Series• Cisco 3900 Series ISR• Other routing productsCisco Carrier Routing Systems (CRS):Cisco ISR-AX• Cisco CRS-1• Cisco CRS-3• Cisco CRS-XCisco Network Convergence System (NCS):• Cisco NCS 6000 SeriesCisco 7600 SeriesCisco 12000 SeriesCisco Quantum Software SuiteSmall cell access routers









During fiscal 2014, we added a new platform in our high-end routers known as the Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS), and we also made several enhancements to our existing platforms such as the CRS-X product line, through our architectural approach, which consists of a programmable network at the foundation and a services platform that connects the network to applications and services.  During fiscal 2015, we continued to enhance our routing portfolio, including products pertaining to service provider routing. We aligned our resources around the service provider routing customer market in order to develop solutions focused on the business outcomes and needs of our customers.  In fiscal 2015, we started executing on the market transition to the 100 Gigabit Ethernet (100GE) data transfer standard as we continued to deploy products within each of our CRS, NCS and ASR 9000 routing portfolios. We also launched the XRv-9000, which brings the maturity and breadth of the Cisco IOS-XR Software operating system to the SDN/NFV virtual world.  These solutions are examples of our intent to continue to combine ASICs, systems, and software to develop NGN Routing products and services aligned with the needs of our customers.

Collaboration

Our Collaboration portfolio integrates voice, video, data, and mobile applications on fixed and mobile networks across a wide range of devices and related IT equipment such as mobile phones, tablets, desktop and laptop computers, and desktop virtualization clients—sometimes collectively referred to as “endpoints”—that people use to access networks.  Within our various Collaboration offerings, we strive to create compelling, innovative collaboration technology through the combined power of software, hardware, and the network with delivery in the cloud, on premises, or in a hybrid solution.

Key product areas within our Collaboration category are as follows:

Unified CommunicationsConferencingCisco TelePresence SystemsEnterprise Mobile Messaging• IP phones• Cisco WebEx Meeting Center• Collaboration desk endpoints• Cisco Spark• Call control• Cisco Collaboration Meeting Rooms• Collaboration room endpoints• Call center and messaging• Immersive systems• Software-based IM clients• Cisco TelePresence Server• Communication gateways and unified communication• Cisco TelePresence Conductor

We include all of our revenue from WebEx within the Collaboration product category. During fiscal 2015, we expanded our Collaboration offerings to incorporate a new product category called Enterprise Mobile Messaging with the launch of the Cisco Spark cloud-based service including a downloadable application, or “app.”  Additionally, we expanded our conferencing category with the addition of our Collaboration Meeting Rooms solution, which strives to bring high-quality web, video, and audio conferencing together in a single application that can be delivered in the cloud, on premises, or as a hybrid solution. We continued to innovate in Cisco TelePresence Systems, with the introduction of the MX800 Dual and the IX5000, the industry’s first three-screen room system to support the H.265 standard. Finally, we extended our Business Edition portfolio of packaged unified communications solutions at both the low end with the BE6000S and at the high end with the BE7000H.









Service Provider Video

Our end-to-end, digital video systems and digital interactive, subscriber devices and Data Over Cable System Interface Specification(DOCSIS) headend and access equipment enable service providers and content originators to deliver entertainment, information, and communication services to consumers and businesses around the world.   Key product areas within our Service Provider Video category are as follows:

Service Provider Video Infrastructure and Cable AccessService Provider Video Software and SolutionsSet-top boxes:• Content security systems• Digital cable and IP set-top boxes• Digital content management and distribution products• Video gateways• Digital headend products• Digital transport adapters• Virtualized video processing systemsCable modems:• Integration and customization offerings• Data modems• Cloud-based end-to-end video entertainment solutions• Embedded media terminal adapters• Wireless gatewaysConnected Life platformsCable/Telecommunications Access Infrastructure:• Cable modem termination systems (CMTSs)• Hybrid fiber coaxial (HFC) access network products• Quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) products

During fiscal 2015, we began to transform our Service Provider Video portfolio. We began shipping our ultra-fast DOCSIS cable access platform, the cBR-8, which has the capability to scale to multi-gigabit broadband access speeds. We also began the transformation of our video software products to leverage cloud and virtualization technologies and open software. Also, in fiscal 2015, an increasing proportion of our in-home video and data access devices that were sold possessed the capability to run advanced, cloud-based and open software platforms.

On July 22, 2015, we entered into an exclusive agreement to sell the client premises equipment portion of our Service Provider Video connected devices business unit to French-based Technicolor. We will continue to refocus our investments in our Service Provider Video towards cloud, security and software-based services.









Data Center

Data Center has been our fastest growing major product category for each of the past five fiscal years. The Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS), enables Fast IT by combining computing, networking and storage infrastructure with management and virtualization to offer speed, simplicity and scale. Our architecture provides pools of policy-driven, composable infrastructure that customers can optimize for traditional workloads, data analytics and cloud-native applications, all within a common operating environment with an open application program interface (API) for broad interoperability and automation.



Key product areas within our Data Center product category are as follows:

Cisco Unified Computing System (UCS):• Cisco UCS B-Series Blade Servers• Cisco UCS C-Series Rack Servers• Cisco UCS M-Series Modular Servers• Cisco UCS C3160 Storage Optimized Rack Server• Cisco UCS Mini branch/remote site computing solution• Cisco UCS Fabric Interconnects• Cisco UCS Manager and UCS Director Management SoftwarePrivate and Hybrid Cloud:• Cisco ONE Enterprise Cloud Suite• Cisco Intercloud FabricServer Access Virtualization:• Cisco Nexus 1000V

During fiscal 2015, we significantly expanded the Cisco UCS portfolio into data-intensive, service provider clouds and edge computing environments.  At the edge, Cisco UCS Mini is an all in one solution optimized for branch and remote office, point of scale locations and smaller IT environments. Incorporating Cisco System Link technology and policy based management, the Cisco UCS M-Series dense modular servers and Cisco UCS C3160 capacity optimized storage bring the Cisco UCS architecture advantages to highly parallelized workloads, including cloud and scale out applications.  Additionally, we continued to invest in data center infrastructure management and automation software within our Cisco UCS Director product offering, and we introduced our Cisco ONE Enterprise Cloud Suite enabling private and hybrid clouds for enterprise customers. We also enabled cloud providers to offer hybrid cloud solutions to their customers with our Intercloud Fabric offering.

Our Data Center product innovations are designed to accelerate execution on our strategy, which is to enable customers to consolidate both physical and virtualized workloads—taking into account the customers’ unique application requirements—onto a single scalable, centrally managed, and automated system.  We offer a portfolio of solutions designed to preserve customer choice, accelerate business initiatives, reduce risk, lower the cost of IT, and represent a comprehensive solution when deployed.

Wireless

Wireless access via wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi) is a fast-growing technology with organizations across the globe investing to provide indoor and outdoor coverage with seamless roaming for voice, video, and data applications.  We aim to deliver an optimized user experience over Wi-Fi and leverage the intelligence of the network to solve business problems.  Our wireless solutions include wireless access points; standalone, switch-converged, and cloud-managed solutions; and network managed services.  Our wireless solutions portfolio is enhanced with security and location-based services via our Mobility Services Engine (MSE) solution.  Our offerings provide users with simplified management and mobile device troubleshooting features designed to reduce operational cost and maximize flexibility and reliability. We are also investing in customized chipset development toward the goal of delivering innovative radio frequency (RF) product functionality for our 802.11ac Wi-Fi. Our High Density Experience (HDX) suite of solutions including Cisco CleanAir proactive spectrum intelligence, our ClientLink solution for mobile devices, and our VideoStream video optimization technology are illustrations of ongoing investment activity in this area.

Key product areas within our Wireless category are as follows:

Cisco Aironet SeriesAccess Point modules for 3700 Series (802.11ac, 3G, WSSI, LTE/4G) and 3600 SeriesControllers (standalone and integrated)Meraki wireless cloud solutions









In fiscal 2015, we completed our 802.11ac Access Point portfolio with a comprehensive set of indoor and outdoor access points. In addition, we released two new WLAN controllers, WLC 5520 and WLC 8540, designed to deliver higher capacity to customer networks as they move toward implementing 802.11ac wave 2 access points over the coming years. Our Connected Mobile Experience (CMX), a Wi-Fi based mobile engagement platform that we introduced in fiscal 2013, continued to experience positive momentum as customers seek to leverage Wi-Fi networks to deliver a richer customer experience, improve operational efficiencies and uncover new monetization opportunities. In addition, our fiscal 2013 acquisition of Meraki, Inc. (“Meraki”), a cloud-managed networking company, further strengthens our Unified Access platform by providing scalable, easy-to-deploy, on-premise networking solutions that can be centrally managed from the cloud.

Security

We believe that security is the top IT priority for many of our customers. We further believe that security solutions, when implemented correctly, not only can help to protect the digital economy but also can be a business enabler that safeguards business interests, protects customer experience and thereby creates competitive advantage. Cisco has invested in security through its build, buy, and partner strategy to embed security throughout the extended network from network to endpoint and data center to cloud.

Our security portfolio of products and services is designed to offer a comprehensive solution that collects and shares intelligence with a coordinated focus on threats across the entire attack continuum-before, during, and after an attack.  These solutions include network and data center security, advanced threat protection, web and email security, access and policy, unified threat management, and advisory, integration, and managed services.

During fiscal 2015, we announced the industry’s first threat-focused next-generation firewall (NGFW) solution. We integrated our FirePOWER Services solution (Sourcefire’s NGIPS) within our Advanced Security Appliances (ASA) portfolio to create the industry’s first threat-centric NGFW solutions.  Also, we introduced several new hardware platforms that can also be enabled with FirePOWER Services such as ASA 5506-X, 5508-X, 5516-X, 5506H and the high performance FirePOWER 9300.

In fiscal 2015, we continued to accelerate the delivery of solutions with new advanced threat protection capabilities.  We integrated our Advanced Malware Protection (AMP) for networks solutions designed to deliver advanced protections as an option to our threat-centric NGFW. We also delivered ThreatGRID appliances based on the Cisco UCS platform.  These platforms offer dynamic malware analysis and threat intelligence solutions.  We also integrated our Cognitive Threat Analytics offering within our Cloud Web Security solution, which is designed to provide a sophisticated method for detecting advanced threats utilizing machine learning and advanced analytical techniques. We also announced several new offerings designed to embed security throughout the extended network—from the data center out to endpoints, branch offices and the cloud. These solutions include Cisco AnyConnect featuring Cisco AMP for Endpoints, FirePOWER Services solutions for Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISRs), Ruggedized Cisco ASA with FirePOWER Services, Cloud Hosted Identity Service, and Adaptive Security Virtual Appliance for the Amazon Web Services platform.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we announced our intent to acquire OpenDNS, a company whose solutions are designed to deliver security to any device, anytime, anywhere, and thereby help enable our customers to more confidently leverage cloud applications without compromising security or visibility.

Other Products

Our Other Products category primarily consists of certain emerging technologies and other networking products.

Service

In addition to our product offerings, we provide a broad range of service offerings, including technical support services and advanced services.

Technical support services help our customers ensure their products operate efficiently, remain available, and benefit from the most up-to-date system and application software that we have developed. These services help customers protect their network investments, manage risk, and minimize downtime for systems running mission-critical applications.  A key example of this is our Cisco Smart Services offering, whichleverages the intelligence from Cisco’s millions of devices and customer connections to protect and optimize network investment for our customers and partners.

Advanced services are part of a comprehensive program that is focused on providing responsive, preventive, and consultative support of our technologies for specific networking needs. We are investing in and expanding our advanced services in the areas  of cloud, security, consulting and analytics which reflects our strategy of selling customer outcomes.  Further extending our operational capabilities, we announced our intent to acquire MaintenanceNet, a cloud-based software platform that uses data analytics and automation to manage renewals of recurring customer contracts.









The advanced services program supports networking devices, applications, solutions, and complete infrastructures. Our service and support strategy is focused on capitalizing on increased globalization, and we believe this strategy, along with our architectural approach, has the potential to further differentiate us from competitors.

Customers and Markets

Many factors influence the IT, collaboration, and networking requirements of our customers. These include the size of the organization, number and types of technology systems, geographic location, and business applications deployed throughout the customer’s network. Our customer base is not limited to any specific industry, geography, or market segment.  In each of the past three fiscal years, no single customer has accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.  Our customers primarily operate in the following markets: enterprise, service provider, commercial, and public sector.

Enterprise

Enterprise businesses are large regional, national, or global organizations with multiple locations or branch offices and typically employ 1,000 or more employees. Many enterprise businesses have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment. We strive to take advantage of the network-as-a-platform strategy to integrate business processes with technology architectures to assist customer growth. We offer service and support packages, financing, and managed network services, primarily through our service provider partners. We sell these products through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as selling directly to these customers.

Service Providers

Service providers offer data, voice, video, and mobile/wireless services to businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers worldwide. This customer market category includes regional, national, and international wireline carriers, as well as Internet, cable, and wireless providers. We also group media, broadcast, and content providers within our service provider market, as the lines in the telecommunications industry continue to blur between traditional network-based services and content-based and application-based services. Service providers use a variety of our routing and switching, optical, security, video, mobility, and network management products, systems, and services for their own networks. In addition, many service providers use Cisco data center, virtualization, and collaboration technologies to offer managed or Internet-based services to their business customers.  Compared with other customers, service providers are more likely to require network design, deployment, and support services because of the scale and complexity of their networks, which requirements are addressed, we believe, by our architectural approach.

Commercial

We define commercial businesses as companies which typically have fewer than 1,000 employees. The larger, or midmarket, customers within the commercial market are served by a combination of our direct salesforce and our channel partners. These customers typically require the latest advanced technologies that our enterprise customers demand, but with less complexity. Small businesses, or companies with fewer than 100 employees, require information technologies and communication products that are easy to configure, install, and maintain. These smaller companies within the commercial market are primarily served by our channel partners.

Public Sector

Public sector entities include federal governments, state and local governments, as well as educational institution customers.   Many public sector entities have unique IT, collaboration, and networking needs within a multivendor environment.  We sell to public sector entities through a network of third-party application and technology vendors and channel partners, as well as direct sales to these customers.









Sales Overview

As of the end of fiscal2015, our worldwide sales and marketing departments consisted of approximately 25,000 employees, including managers, sales representatives, and technical support personnel. We have field sales offices in 93 countries, and we sell our products and services both directly and through a variety of channels with support from our salesforce. A substantial portion of our products and services is sold through our channel partners, and the remainder is sold through direct sales. Our channel partners include systems integrators, service providers, other resellers, and distributors.

Systems integrators and service providers typically sell directly to end users and often provide system installation, technical support, professional services, and other support services in addition to network equipment sales. Systems integrators also typically integrate our products into an overall solution. Some service providers are also systems integrators.

Distributors hold inventory and typically sell to systems integrators, service providers, and other resellers.  We refer to sales through distributors as our two-tier system of sales to the end customer. Revenue from distributors is recognized based on a sell-through method using information provided by them. These distributors are generally given business terms that allow them to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs.

For information regarding risks related to our channels, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Disruption of or changes in our distribution model could harm our sales and margins” and “Our inventory management relating to our sales to our two-tier distribution channel is complex, and excess inventory may harm our gross margins.”

For information regarding risks relating to our international operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions and the uncertain geopolitical environment”; “Entrance into new or developing markets exposes us to additional competition and will likely increase demands on our service and support operations”; “Due to the global nature of our operations, political or economic changes or other factors in a specific country or region could harm our operating results and financial condition”; “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows”; and “Man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results,” among others.

Our service offerings complement our products through a range of consulting, technical, project, quality, and software maintenance services, including 24-hour online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.

Financing Arrangements

We provide financing arrangements for certain qualified customers to build, maintain, and upgrade their networks. We believe customer financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in serving customers involved in significant infrastructure projects.   Our financing arrangements include the following:

Leases:• Sales-type• Direct financing• OperatingLoansFinanced service contractsChannels financing arrangementsEnd-user financing arrangements

For additional information regarding these financing arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Product Backlog

Our product backlog atJuly 25, 2015, the last day of fiscal2015, was approximately$5.1 billion, compared with product backlog of approximately$5.4 billionatJuly 26, 2014, the last day of fiscal2014. The product backlog includes orders confirmed for products planned to be shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without significant penalty), we do not believe that our product backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual product revenue for any future period.









Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances

The markets in which we compete require a wide variety of technologies, products, and capabilities. Our growth strategy is based on the three components of innovation, which we sometimes refer to as our “build, buy, and partner” approach.  The foregoing is a way of describing how we strive to innovate: we can internally develop, or build, our own innovative solutions; we can acquire, or buy, companies with innovative technologies; and we can partner with companies to jointly develop and/or resell product technologies and innovations.  The combination of technological complexity and rapid change within our markets makes it difficult for a single company to develop all of the technological solutions that it desires to offer within its family of products and services. We work to broaden the range of products and services we deliver to customers in target markets through acquisitions, investments, and alliances. To summarize, we employ the following strategies to address the need for new or enhanced networking and communications products and services:

•Developing new technologies and products internally

•Acquiring all or parts of other companies

•Entering into joint development efforts with other companies

•Reselling other companies’ products

Acquisitions

We have acquired many companies, and we expect to make future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, especially if the acquired company has yet to ship a product. No assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results.”

Investments in Privately Held Companies

We make investments in privately held companies that develop technology or provide services that are complementary to our products or that provide strategic value. The risks associated with these investments are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our earnings.”

Strategic Alliances

We pursue strategic alliances with other companies in areas where collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets. The objectives and goals of a strategic alliance can include one or more of the following: technology exchange, product development, joint sales and marketing, or new market creation. Companies with which we have, or recently had, strategic alliances include the following:

Accenture Ltd; Apple Inc.; AT&T Inc.; Cap Gemini S.A.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; EMC Corporation; Fujitsu Limited; Intel Corporation; International Business Machines Corporation; Italtel SpA; Johnson Controls Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; NetApp, Inc.; Nokia Siemens Networks; Oracle Corporation; Red Hat, Inc.; SAP AG; Sprint Nextel Corporation; Tata Consultancy Services Ltd.; VCE Company, LLC (“VCE”); VMware, Inc.; Wipro Limited; and others.

Companies with which we have strategic alliances in some areas may be competitors in other areas, and in our view this trend may increase. The risks associated with our strategic alliances are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factor entitled “If we do not successfully manage our strategic alliances, we may not realize the expected benefits from such alliances, and we may experience increased competition or delays in product development.”









Competition

We compete in the networking and communications equipment markets, providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. These markets are characterized by rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking and communications solutions that offer relative advantages. These market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to us. We compete with numerous vendors in each product category. The overall number of our competitors providing niche product solutions may increase. Also, the identity and composition of competitors may change as we increase our activity in our new product markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competition in different geographic regions. In particular, we have experienced price-focused competition from competitors in Asia, especially from China, and we anticipate this will continue.

Our competitors include Alcatel-Lucent; Amazon Web Services LLC; Arista Networks, Inc.; ARRIS Group, Inc.; Avaya Inc.; Blue Jeans Networks, Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.; Check Point Software Technologies Ltd.; Citrix Systems, Inc.; Dell Inc.; LM Ericsson Telephone Company; Extreme Networks, Inc.; F5 Networks, Inc.; FireEye, Inc.; Fortinet, Inc.; Hewlett-Packard Company; Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.; International Business Machines Corporation; Juniper Networks, Inc.; Lenovo Group Limited; Microsoft Corporation; Palo Alto Networks, Inc.;  Polycom, Inc.; Riverbed Technology, Inc.; Ruckus Wireless, Inc.; Symantec Corporation; Ubiquiti Networks and VMware, Inc.; among others.

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete and may compete in the future include:

•The ability to provide a broad range of networking and communications products and services

•Product performance

•Price

•The ability to introduce new products, including products with price-performance advantages

•The ability to reduce production costs

•The ability to provide value-added features such as security, reliability, and investment protection

•Conformance to standards

•Market presence

•The ability to provide financing

•Disruptive technology shifts and new business models

We also face competition from customers to which we license or supply technology and suppliers from which we transfer technology. The inherent nature of networking requires interoperability. Therefore, we must cooperate and at the same time compete with many companies. Any inability to effectively manage these complicated relationships with customers, suppliers, and strategic alliance partners could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect our chances of success.









Research and Development

We regularly seek to introduce new products and features to address the requirements of our markets. We allocate our research and development budget among our product categories, which consist of Switching, NGN Routing, Collaboration, Service Provider Video, Data Center, Wireless, Security, and Other Product technologies, for this purpose. Our research and development expenditures were $6.2 billion,$6.3 billion, and$5.9 billionin fiscal2015,2014, and2013, respectively. These expenditures are applied generally to all product areas, with specific areas of focus being identified from time to time. Recent areas of increased focus include, but are not limited to, our core routing and switching products, collaboration, and products related to the data center. Our expenditures for research and development costs were expensed as incurred.

The industry in which we compete is subject to rapid technological developments, evolving standards, changes in customer requirements, and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our success depends in part upon our ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to continue to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. To achieve these objectives, our management and engineering personnel work with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories, and corporations. We also expect to continue to make acquisitions and investments, where appropriate, to provide us with access to new technologies. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and technological changes or that those products will achieve market acceptance.

Manufacturing

We rely on contract manufacturers for all of our manufacturing needs. We presently use a variety of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed-circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, product repair, and product assembly. Proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips is used to configure products that meet customer requirements and to maintain quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables us to configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual customer requirements. The manufacturing process uses automated testing equipment and burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical process controls, which are designed to help ensure the quality and reliability of our products. The manufacturing processes and procedures are generally certified to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 or ISO 9003 standards.

Our arrangements with contract manufacturers generally provide for quality, cost, and delivery requirements, as well as manufacturing process terms, such as continuity of supply; inventory management; flexibility regarding capacity, quality, and cost management; oversight of manufacturing; and conditions for use of our intellectual property. We have not entered into any significant long-term contracts with any manufacturing service provider. We generally have the option to renew arrangements on an as-needed basis. These arrangements generally do not commit us to purchase any particular amount or any quantities beyond certain amounts covered by orders or forecasts that we submit covering discrete periods of time, defined as less than one year.

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing

We seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our technology and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws. We have a program to file applications for and obtain patents, copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. We have obtained a substantial number of patents and trademarks in the United States and in other countries. There can be no assurance, however, that the rights obtained can be successfully enforced against infringing products in every jurisdiction. Although we believe the protection afforded by our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and uncertainties in the legal process make our future success dependent primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management abilities of our employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.

Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, we believe, based upon past experience and standard industry practice, that such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a nonexclusive basis can limit our ability to protect our proprietary rights in our products.









The industry in which we compete is characterized by rapidly changing technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that our patents and other proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented; that others will not assert intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to us; or that our rights will give us a competitive advantage. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” including the risk factors entitled “Our proprietary rights may prove difficult to enforce,” “We may be found to infringe on intellectual property rights of others,” and “We rely on the availability of third-party licenses.”

Employees

Employees are summarized as follows:

July 25, 2015Employees by geography:United States36,222Rest of world35,611Total71,833Employees by line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations:Cost of sales(1)17,186Research and development22,542Sales and marketing24,762General and administrative7,343Total71,833

(1)Cost of sales includes manufacturing support, services, and training.

We consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table shows the name, age, and position as of August 31, 2015 of each of our executive officers:

NameAgePosition with the CompanyCharles H. Robbins49Chief Executive Officer and DirectorJohn T. Chambers66Executive ChairmanMark Chandler59Senior Vice President, Legal Services, General Counsel and Secretary, and Chief Compliance OfficerChris Dedicoat58Executive Vice President, Worldwide SalesRebecca Jacoby53Senior Vice President and Chief of OperationsKelly A. Kramer48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerPankaj Patel61Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer, Global EngineeringKaren Walker53Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer

Mr. Robbinshas served as Chief Executive Officer since July 2015 and as a member of the Board of Directors since May 2015.  He joined Cisco in December 1997, from which time until March 2002 he held a number of managerial positions within Cisco’s sales organization. Mr. Robbins was promoted to Vice President in March 2002, assuming leadership of Cisco’s U.S. channel sales organization. Additionally, in July 2005 he assumed leadership of Cisco’s Canada channel sales organization. In December 2007, Mr. Robbins was promoted to Senior Vice President, U.S. Commercial, and in August 2009 he was appointed Senior Vice President, U.S. Enterprise, Commercial and Canada. In July 2011, Mr. Robbins was named Senior Vice President, Americas. In October 2012, Mr. Robbins was promoted to Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations, in which position he served until assuming the role of Chief Executive Officer.









Mr. Chambershas served as a member of the Board of Directors since November 1993. Mr. Chambers, who was appointed Executive Chairman in July 2015, served as Cisco’s Chief Executive Officer from January 1995 until July 2015, and he also served as President from January 1995 to November 2006. He joined Cisco as Senior Vice President in January 1991 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in June 1994, prior to assuming the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer in January 1995. Before joining Cisco, Mr. Chambers was employed by Wang Laboratories, Inc. for eight years, where, in his last role, he was the Senior Vice President of U.S. Operations.

Mr. Chandlerjoined Cisco in July 1996, upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., where he served as General Counsel. He served as Cisco’s Managing Attorney for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa from December 1996 until June 1999; as Director, Worldwide Legal Operations from June 1999 until February 2001; and was promoted to Vice President, Worldwide Legal Services in February 2001. In October 2001, he was promoted to Vice President, Legal Services and General Counsel, and in May 2003, he was also appointed Secretary. In February 2006, he was promoted to Senior Vice President, and in May 2012 was appointed Chief Compliance Officer. Before joining StrataCom, he had served as Vice President, Corporate Development and General Counsel of Maxtor Corporation.

Mr. Dedicoatjoined Cisco in June 1995 and has held various leadership positions within Cisco’s sales organization.  From June 1995 through April 1999, he served as a manager and then as a director within the United Kingdom portion of Cisco’s Europe sales organization, overseeing both commercial and enterprise accounts.  In April 1999, Mr. Dedicoat was appointed Vice President, Europe, and in June 2003 he was promoted to Senior Vice President, Europe, serving as Cisco’s lead sales executive for Europe.  In July 2011, Mr. Dedicoat was appointed Senior Vice President, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, and Africa).  Mr. Dedicoat was appointed to his current position effective July 2015.

Ms. Jacobyjoined Cisco in March 1995 and has held a number of leadership positions with Cisco.  She served, successively, as a manager, director and vice president within Cisco’s global supply chain organization from March 1995 until November 2003.  In November 2003, Ms. Jacoby assumed the role of Vice President, Customer Service and Operations Systems, serving in this capacity until October 2006 when she was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO) of Cisco.   Ms. Jacoby held the SVP/CIO position until being promoted to her current position effective July 2015.  She is a member of the board of directors of McGraw Hill Financial, Inc.

Ms. Kramerjoined Cisco in January 2012 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance.  She served in that position until October 2014 and served as Cisco’s Senior Vice President, Business Technology and Operations Finance from October 2013 until December 2014. She was appointed to her current position effective January 2015.  From January 2009 until she joined Cisco, Ms. Kramer served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Systems. Ms. Kramer served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Diagnostic Imaging from August 2007 to January 2009 and as Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Biosciences from January 2006 to July 2007. Prior to that, Ms. Kramer held various leadership positions with GE corporate and other GE businesses.

Mr. Pateljoined Cisco in July 1996 upon Cisco’s acquisition of StrataCom, Inc., serving from July 1996 through September 1999 as a Senior Director of Engineering. From November 1999 through January 2003, he served as Senior Vice President of Engineering at Redback Networks Inc., a networking equipment provider later acquired by Ericsson. In January 2003, Mr. Patel rejoined Cisco as Vice President and General Manager, Cable Business Unit, and was promoted to Senior Vice President in July 2005. In January 2006, Mr. Patel was named Senior Vice President and General Manager, Service Provider Business and, additionally, in May 2011 became co-leader of Engineering. In June 2012, Mr. Patel assumed the leadership of Engineering. In August 2012, Mr. Patel was promoted to his current position.

Ms. Walkerjoined Cisco in November 2008 serving from November 2008 through January 2012 as Vice President, Services Marketing.  From February 2012 to January 2013, Ms. Walker served as Senior Vice President, Segment, Services and Partner Marketing, and from February 2013 until May 2015 as Senior Vice President, Go To Market.  In May 2015, Ms. Walker was promoted to her current position.  Ms. Walker joined Cisco from Hewlett-Packard, where she held business and consumer leadership positions including Vice President of Alliances and Marketing for HP Services, and Vice President of Strategy and Marketing for both the Consumer Digital Entertainment and Personal Systems groups.













