Item 1.Business

Overview

Brown-Forman Corporation (“we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and subsequently incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. We primarily manufacture, bottle, import, export, and
market a wide variety of alcoholic beverage brands.

For additional information on our business, including the
matters described below in this item, please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II of this Form 10-K.

Brands

Our principal beverage brands are:



Jack Daniel’s Tennessee WhiskeyChambord VodkaJack Daniel’s Single BarrelDon Eduardo TequilaJack Daniel’s Ready-to-DrinksEarly Times BourbonJack Daniel’s Tennessee HoneyEarly Times Kentucky WhiskyGentleman Jackel Jimador TequilasSouthern ComfortHerradura TequilasSouthern Comfort Ready-to-DrinksKorbel California Champagnes*Southern Comfort Ready-to-PoursMaximus VodkaSouthern Comfort LimeNew Mix Ready-to-DrinksSouthern Comfort Fiery PepperOld Forester BourbonSouthern Comfort Bold CherryLittle Black Dress VodkasFinlandia VodkaCollingwood WhiskyAntiguo TequilaPepe Lopez TequilasCanadian Mist Blended Canadian WhiskySonoma-Cutrer WinesChambord LiqueurTuaca LiqueurWoodford Reserve Bourbon





*Represented in the U.S. and other select markets by Brown-Forman






The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel’s, which is
the fifth-largest premium spirits brand and the largest selling American whiskey brand in the world according to volume statistics published in February 2012 by Impact Databank, a well-known trade publication. Our other leading global brands are
Finlandia, the sixth-largest selling vodka, Southern Comfort, the third-largest selling liqueur, Canadian Mist, the fourth-largest selling Canadian whisky, and el Jimador, the fourth-largest selling tequila, according to the recently published
volume statistics referenced above. We believe the statistics used to rank these products are reasonably accurate.

Strategy

Our strategy is to market high quality products that satisfy the preferences of consumers of legal
drinking age and to support those products with extensive international, national, and regional marketing programs. These programs are intended to increase consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.

Trademarks

We own numerous valuable trademarks that are essential to our business. Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. Through licensing
arrangements, we have authorized the use of some of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.

Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, PET (polyethylene terephthalate), labels, and wood for
barrels, which are used for storage of whiskey and certain tequilas. The principal raw materials used in liqueurs are neutral spirits, sugar, and wine, while the principal raw materials used in our ready-to-drink products are sugar, neutral spirits,
whiskey, tequila, or malt. Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply, and there are adequate sources from which they may be obtained, but shortages in some of these can occur.

Due to aging requirements, production of whiskeys, certain tequilas, and other distilled spirits is scheduled to meet
demand in the future. Accordingly, our inventories may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than would be normal for most other businesses.

The principal raw materials used in the production of wines are grapes, packaging materials and wood for wine barrels. Our grape supply comes from a combination of owned vineyards located in California
and external contracts with independent growers; from time to time, our grape costs are adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. We believe that our relationships with our growers are good.

Distribution

We use a variety of distribution models across the globe to deliver our products to our customers. In the United States, we sell our brands either to wholesalers or to state governments that then sell to
retail customers and consumers. We own and operate distribution networks in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Poland, Taiwan, and Turkey, where we sell our products either directly to retail stores or to
wholesalers. In the United Kingdom, we partner with another supplier to sell a combined portfolio of our companies’ brands. In many other markets, including France, Spain, Italy, Russia, and South Africa we rely on others to distribute our
brands.






International Markets

Our main international markets include Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Poland, Germany, France, Russia, Canada,
Japan, Turkey, Spain, Italy, Czech Republic, South Africa, and Brazil. Our fiscal 2012 net sales by geography were as follows:



United States42%Europe27%Rest of the world31%

For information about the Company’s reportable segment and for additional geographic
information about net sales and long-lived assets, please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

The distilled spirits industry is
highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but most of our brands compete primarily in the industry’s premium end. We compete based on taste, product quality,
brand image, and price — all in response to consumer preferences. While the industry is highly fragmented, other major players include Bacardi Limited, Beam Inc., Constellation Brands, Inc., Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Diageo PLC, Pernod
Ricard S.A., and Rémy Cointreau S.A.

Regulatory Environment

The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the United States Treasury Department regulates the wine and spirits
industry with respect to production, blending, bottling, sales, advertising, and transportation of industry products. Also, each state regulates the advertising, promotion, transportation, sale, and distribution of such products.

Under federal regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged for at least two years in new charred oak barrels.
We typically age all of our whiskeys between three and six years. Federal regulations also require that “Canadian” whiskey must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws. Mexican authorities regulate the production of
tequilas, which among other specifications, require minimum aging periods for anejo (one year) and reposado (two months) tequilas. We comply with these regulations.

Employees and Executive Officers

As of
April 30, 2012, we employed about 4,000 persons, including approximately 200 employed on a part-time or temporary basis. We believe our employee relations are good.

The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company as of June 27, 2012.



NameAgePrincipal Occupation andBusiness ExperiencePaul C. Varga48Chairman of the Company since August 2007.Chief Executive Officer since August 2005.President and Chief Executive Officer of
Brown-Forman Beverages (a division of the Company) from August 2003 to August 2005.Donald C. Berg57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since May 2008. Senior Vice President and Director of Corporate Finance from July 2006 to May 2008. President of Brown-Forman
Spirits Americas from July 2003 to July 2006.James S. Welch, Jr.53Vice Chairman of the Company, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, Diversity, and Human Resources since
2007.Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Strategy and Human Resources from 2003 to
2007.








NameAgePrincipal Occupation andBusiness Experience

Mark I. McCallum57Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since May 2009. Executive Vice President and Chief Brands Officer from May 2006 through
April 2009. Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from July 2003 to May 2006.

Kris Sirchio46Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since November 2009. Global Head, Professional Products, Syngenta AG from October 2004 to September
2009.

Matthew E. Hamel52Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since October 2007. Associate General Counsel and Vice President, Law, of
the Enterprise Media Group of Dow Jones & Company, Inc., from December 2006 to October 2007. Vice President, GeneralCounsel and Secretary
of Dow Jones Reuters Business Interactive LLC (d/b/a Factiva) from December 1999 to December 2006.

Jill A. Jones47Executive Vice President and Chief Production Officer since July 2011. Senior Vice President and Chief Production Officer from November 2009 to July 2011.
Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Global Production from May 2007 to October 2009. Director of Finance, Global Production from July 2006 to April 2007. Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Brown-Forman Distillery Company and
Supply Chain Management from August 2002 to June 2006.

Jane C. Morreau53Senior Vice President and Director of Finance, Accounting and Technology since May 2008. Senior Vice President and Controller from December 2006 to May 2008.
Vice President and Controller from August 2002 to December 2006.

Available Information

You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Our website address is
www.brown-forman.com. Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are
available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference,
unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

On our website, we
have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct and Compliance Guidelines that apply to all directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. We have also posted on our
website the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our
Secretary, Matthew E. Hamel, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.






