Item 1.Business



Overview

Brown-Forman Corporation (“Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and later incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. We primarily manufacture, bottle, import, export, market, and sell a wide variety of alcoholic beverages under recognized brands. We employ over 4,200 people on six continents, including about 1,200 people in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, home of our world headquarters. We are the largest American-owned spirits and wine company with global reach. We are a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules, and the Brown family owns a majority of our voting stock.

For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Overview.”



Brands

Beginning in 1870 with Old Forester Bourbon Whisky – our first and founding brand – and spanning the generations since, we have built a portfolio of more than 30 spirit, wine, and ready-to-drink cocktail (RTD) brands, which includes some of the best-known and most-loved trademarks in our industry. The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel’s, which is the fourth-largest spirits brand of any kind and the largest selling American whiskey brand in the world, according to Impact Databank’s “Top 100 Premium Spirits Brands Worldwide” list1. Our other leading global brands on the Impact list are Finlandia, the sixth-largest-selling vodka; Southern Comfort, the fourth-largest-selling liqueur; Canadian Mist, the fourth-largest-selling Canadian whisky; and el Jimador, the fourth-largest-selling tequila. New this year is our Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey, which entered the list at 100, after selling 1 million nine-liter equivalent cases in its third full year since introduction.

Principal BrandsJack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskeyel Jimador TequilasJack Daniel’s Single Barrelel Jimador New Mix RTDsJack Daniel’s RTDsHerradura TequilasJack Daniel’s Tennessee HoneyPepe Lopez TequilasJack Daniel’s Winter JackWoodford Reserve BourbonsGentleman JackCanadian Mist Blended Canadian WhiskiesJack Daniel’s Sinatra™ SelectChambord LiqueurJack Daniel’s No. 27 Gold Tennessee WhiskeyChambord VodkaJack Daniel’s 1907 Tennessee WhiskeyCollingwood Canadian WhiskyJack Daniel’s Tennessee Rye WhiskeysEarly Times BourbonSouthern ComfortEarly Times flavored line extensionsSouthern Comfort RTDsEarly Times Kentucky WhiskySouthern Comfort flavored line extensionsKorbel California Champagnes2Finlandia VodkasOld Forester BourbonFinlandia RTDsSonoma-Cutrer WinesMaximus VodkaTuaca LiqueurAntiguo Tequila

1Impact Databank, a well-known U.S. trade publication, published these industry statistics in February 2014.2Not owned by Brown-Forman but sold by us under contract in the United States and other select markets.

See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2014 Brand Highlights” for additional information regarding the performance of our brands.

Our vision in marketing is to “be the best brand builders in the industry … period.” We build our brands by investing in programs that we believe create enduring connections with our consumers. These programs cover a wide spectrum of activities, including media (TV, radio, print, outdoor, and, increasingly, digital and social media), consumer and trade promotions, sponsorships, and visitor center programs at our distilleries and our winery. We expect to grow our sales and profits by consistently









and delivering creative and responsible marketing programs that drive brand recognition, brand loyalty, and, ultimately, consumer demand around the world.





Markets

Our products are sold in more than 160 countries around the world. Our largest international markets include Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Germany, Poland, Russia, France, Turkey, Canada, and Japan. Over the last 10 years, we have greatly expanded our international footprint. In fiscal 2014, we generated 59% of our net sales outside the United States compared to 36% ten years ago. The United States remains our largest, most important market, contributing 41% of our net sales in fiscal 2014. We present the percentage of total net sales by geographic area for our most recent three fiscal years and, to provide historical context, fiscal 2004, below:

Percentage of Total Net Sales by Geographic AreaYear ended April 302004...201220132014United States64%...42%41%41%International:...Europe...30%30%32%Australia...13%14%12%Other...15%15%15%Total International36%...58%59%59%TOTAL100%100%100%100%

For details about net sales in our largest markets, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Fiscal 2014 Market Highlights.” For details about our reportable segment and for additional geographic information about net sales and long-lived assets, refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For details on risks related to our global operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Distribution Network and Customers

Our distribution network, which we sometimes refer to as our “route-to-consumer,” takes a variety of forms depending on (a) a market’s laws and regulatory framework for trade in beverage alcohol, (b) our assessment of a market’s long-term attractiveness and competitive dynamics, (c) the relative profitability of distribution options available to us, (d) the structure of the retail and wholesale trade in the market, and (e) our portfolio’s development stage in the market. As these factors change, we evaluate our route-to-consumer strategy and, from time to time, adopt a different model.

In the United States, which generally prohibits wine and spirits manufacturers from selling their products directly to consumers, we sell our brands either to distributors or (in states that directly control alcohol sales) to state governments that then sell to retail customers and consumers. In some states, we have distribution contracts; these contracts typically have no fixed term, but we can terminate them at any time if we pay a terminated distributor a fee (primarily based on a percentage of purchases over time). Some state franchise statutes limit our ability to terminate distributors or mandate a payment to a terminated distributor.

Outside the United States, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models. We own and operate distribution companies in 11 markets: Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Korea, Mexico, Poland, and Turkey. In these markets, we sell our products directly to retail stores, to wholesalers, or, in Canada, to provincial governments. In the United Kingdom, we partner in a cost-sharing arrangement with another supplier, Bacardi, to sell a portfolio of both companies’ brands. In many other markets, including Russia, Japan, Spain, Italy, and South Africa, we rely on others to distribute our brands, generally under fixed-term distribution contracts.

We believe that our customer relationships are good. We believe our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited due to the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations.











Seasonality

Holiday buying makes the fourth calendar quarter the peak season for our business. Approximately 31% of our net sales for each of the fiscal years ended April 30, 2012 and 2013 was in the fourth calendar quarter. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2014, approximately 32% of our net sales was in the fourth calendar quarter.



Competition

Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest global suppliers of premium wine and spirits. According to International Wine & Spirit Research, for calendar year 2013, the ten largest global spirits companies controlled less than 20% of the total global market for spirits (on a volume basis). While we believe that the overall market environment offers considerable growth opportunities for us, our industry is now, and will remain, highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but most of our brands compete primarily in the industry’s premium and higher price categories. While the industry is highly fragmented, direct competitors include Bacardi Limited, Beam Suntory Inc., Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Diageo PLC, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton S.A., Pernod Ricard S.A., and Rémy Cointreau S.A.

Brand recognition, quality of product and packaging, availability, taste, and price are factors that affect consumers’ choices among competing brands in our industry. Several factors influence consumers’ buying decisions, including: advertising; promotions; merchandising in bars, restaurants, and shops; expert or celebrity endorsement; social media and word-of-mouth; and the timing and relevance of new production introductions. Although some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, we believe that our competitive position is strong, particularly as it relates to brand recognition, quality, availability, and relevance of new product introductions.



Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, PET (polyethylene terephthalate, used in non-glass containers), labels, and wood for barrels, which are used for storage of whiskey and certain tequilas. The principal raw materials used in liqueurs are neutral spirits, sugar, and wine, while the principal raw materials used in our RTD products are sugar, flavorings, neutral spirits, whiskey, tequila, or malt. The principal raw materials used in producing wines are grapes, packaging materials, and wood barrels. Our grape supply comes from a combination of owned vineyards located in California and external contracts with independent growers. We believe that our relationships with our growers are good. Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply, but shortages in some of these could occur. From time to time, our agricultural ingredients (corn, rye, malted barley, agave, and grapes) could be adversely affected by weather and other forces that might constrain supply.

Due to aging requirements, we must schedule production of whiskeys, certain tequilas, and other distilled spirits to meet demand years in the future. As a result, our inventories may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than would be normal for many other businesses.

For details on risks related to the availability of raw materials and the uncertainty inherent in supply/demand forecasting, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights include trademarks, copyrights, proprietary packaging and trade dress, proprietary manufacturing technologies, know-how, and some patents. Our trademarks are essential to our business. We register our trademarks very broadly, some of them in every country where registration is possible. We register others where we sell or expect to sell our products. We protect our intellectual property rights vigorously but fairly. We have licensed some of our trademarks to third parties for use on products and services other than alcoholic beverages, which we believe enhances the awareness and protection of our brands.

For details on risks related to the protection of our intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Regulatory Environment

The production, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal, state, local, and foreign authorities. Various countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of distilled spirits in whole or in part.

The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury regulates the wine and spirits industry in the United States with respect to production, blending, bottling, labeling, sales, advertising, and transportation of beverage alcohol products. Similar regulatory regimes exist in each state, as well as in most of the non-U.S. jurisdictions where we sell our products. In addition, distilled spirits products are subject to customs duties or excise taxation in many markets, including in the United States, at the federal, state, or local level.

Under U.S. federal regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged for at least two years in new charred oak barrels. We typically age our whiskeys between three and six years. Federal regulations also require that “Canadian” whisky must









be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws. Mexican authorities regulate the production and bottling of tequilas, which, among other specifications, mandate minimum aging periods foranejo(one year) andreposado(two months) tequilas. We comply with these regulations.

Our operations within and outside the United States are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, and our policy is to comply with all those regulatory requirements.



Strategy

The B-F Arrow is an articulation of our vision, mission, values, and behaviors that we expect all of our employees to embrace and exhibit.





Our Long-Term Strategy

In the summer of 2010, we introduced our ten-year strategy, the Brown-Forman 150, focused on driving sustainable growth toward our 150thanniversary. Our strategy is flexible. As time passes and the environment changes, we revisit and revise our strategy to reflect current realities. We revised our strategic ambitions in 2013, and these are discussed below.

The Jack Daniel’s family of brands, including Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey, is our most valuable asset. We will work to keep Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey strong, healthy, and relevant to consumers worldwide, and to take advantage of the abundant opportunities for growing the Jack Daniel’s family of brands across countries, price points, channels, and consumer groups.

We aspire to become a global leader in whiskey. We believe that whiskey is the most attractive global spirits category, and we believe we can leverage our whiskey-making knowledge, production assets, trademarks, brand-building skills, and other capabilities to accomplish this objective. While we will strive to grow Jack Daniel’s globally, we also expect to grow our other whiskey brands, led by Woodford Reserve, in key markets, and we will consider acquisitions and innovations within the whiskey category.

We aim to grow Finlandia and Herradura. We plan to focus on growing Finlandia in Poland, Russia, eastern Europe, and the United States, and look to add super-premium vodka brands either through acquisition or innovation. We will work to expand the reach of our tequila brands, Herradura and el Jimador, to new consumers, emphasizing Mexico, the United States, and a few other high-potential markets. We also will continue our efforts to enhance and broaden consumer appeal of the Southern Comfort brand.

We will consider entering growing, profitable, local spirit categories in key markets. Realizing this potential will require innovative products and packaging to seize new business opportunities and to leverage our brands into new consumption occasions.

The United States remains our largest market, and continuing to grow this market is important to our long-term success. We expect to effect this growth through stronger participation in fast-growing spirits categories such as flavored whiskey, super-premium bourbon, vodka, and tequila; continued product and packaging innovation; continued route-to-consumer proficiency; and brand building among growing consumer segments, with increasing emphasis on multicultural marketing.

For more than two decades, our business outside the United States has grown more quickly than our business within it. Continuing this trend is important to our overall growth in the next decade, especially in emerging markets. To realize this objective, we expect to grow our portfolio in developed markets such as France, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Germany and in emerging









markets such as Poland, Mexico, Turkey, and Russia. We also expect other emerging markets such as Brazil, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, and eastern Europe to increase significantly in importance. We will continue to strive to develop and employ route-to-consumer strategies that will expand our access to and understanding of consumers in these diverse markets.

We believe that having a long-term focused, committed, and engaged shareholder base provides us with an important strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands. As such, we plan to continue our engagement with our shareholders, including our controlling family shareholders.

Recognizing the strong cash generating capacity and the capital efficiency of our business, we will continue to pursue what we believe to be well-balanced capital deployment strategies aimed at perpetuating Brown-Forman’s strength and independence.

Corporate Responsibility

In pursuing all of the objectives described above, we will strive to be responsible in everything we do. Our history of responsibility began in 1870, when our founder, George Garvin Brown, first sold medicinal whisky in glass bottles to ensure quality – an innovative idea during a time when whisky was usually sold by the barrel. Today, achieving Brown-Forman’s business purpose, “enriching the experience of life,” is only possible within a context of corporate responsibility. This means promoting responsible consumer enjoyment of our brands; working to reduce alcohol abuse and misuse; protecting the environment; providing a healthy, safe, and inclusive workplace; and contributing to the global communities where we operate.

Alcohol Responsibility.We promote responsible consumption of our products as we believe this will enhance our relationships with consumers, business partners, stakeholders, and society at large and is essential for the long-term prosperity of our company and our industry. When abused or misused, alcohol can contribute to significant harm both to individuals and the community. We appreciate the need for governments to appropriately and effectively regulate our industry, taking into account national circumstances and local cultures. Along with others and through partnership, we want to be part of the solution to real and complex problems such as underage drinking, drunk driving and overconsumption.

Since 2009 we have hosted an open forum sharing our point of view and encouraged engagement of others on OurThinkingAboutDrinking.com. We support The Ad Council’s “Buzzed Driving is Drunk Driving” campaigns, designated driver services such as BeMyDD and the Responsible Retailing Forum which brings together diverse stakeholders seeking to reduce underage sales, among other initiatives. In 2012, Brown-Forman and 12 other global beer, wine, and spirits producers announced commitments to reduce the harmful use of alcohol over the next five years. Our progress against these commitments will be reported annually and more information can be found at www.producerscommitments.org.

With respect to our consumer relationships, we seek to communicate through responsible advertising content and placement, utilizing our comprehensive internal marketing code and adhering to marketing and advertising guidelines of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, the Wine Institute, and spiritsEUROPE, among others. We also are founding members and contribute significant resources to the Foundation for Advancing Alcohol Responsibility, an organization created by spirits producers to combat harmful use of alcohol. While this is a U.S. organization, we actively participate in similar organizations in other markets.

Environmental Sustainability.In 2010, we set out an Environmental Sustainability Roadmap for 2020, which outlines how we will responsibly manage our environmental footprint as we grow. We have decreased our greenhouse gas emissions by 48% per unit of product and increased our energy efficiency by 36% per unit of product (against a 2009 baseline), exceeding our goals of 30% in each category well ahead of schedule. We have decreased our wastewater generated per unit of product by 25%, and are on target to meet our 30% goal. Our target of zero waste sent to landfill from our facilities continues to present challenges as we struggle to obtain accurate data, but we continue to work towards this goal.

In 2014,NewsweekGreen Rankings placed us in the #42 spot out of the top 500 U.S. companies. We were also one of only five companies in the S&P 500 consumer staples sector named to the Climate Performance Leadership Index, an index published by the Carbon Disclosure Project, an international non-profit organization that works with institutional investors to motivate companies to disclose and reduce environmental impacts (CDP), for our approach to reducing carbon emissions and mitigating the risks of climate change. We received a distinguished disclosure score of 93 and an “A” performance rating from CDP.  In 2013, we signed the Ceres’ Climate Declaration, a business-backed effort to seize the economic opportunity of addressing climate change through stronger climate policies.

Diversity & Inclusion and Human Rights. We believe that a diverse workforce is not only right, but also good for our business and our brand building. We have made progress implementing our aggressive strategy to increase diversity, including better demographic representation in the United States and improved engagement scores among Asians and African Americans, among other groups. In 2013, the Human Rights Campaign, a civil rights organization promoting equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Americans, awarded us a 100% rating in their Corporate Equality Index for the third year in a row. Our employee resource groups (ERGs) have been the core of our diversity culture by supporting employees’ growth while enhancing their









contributions. There are eight ERGs in total, including SPIRIT, which was formed to promote inclusion and respect for non-drinkers and the most recent addition, BRAVE, established to support veterans of the armed forces. In fiscal 2014, more than 25% of our employees were members of at least one ERG.

In the marketplace, we focus on promoting fair and ethical business practices. In 2012, we issued our Global Human Rights Statement, defining our commitment to respecting the fundamental rights inherent to all human beings. We share our human rights policies and practices with our suppliers through our Suppliers Guide to Human Rights.

Community Involvement. Our approach to philanthropy reflects our values as a corporate citizen. Our civic engagement supports non-profit organizations that make a positive impact and improve the lives of individuals and the vitality of our communities. We target our support in six general areas: arts and culture, education, environment, social services, alcohol responsibility and community development. While our focus is in our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, our civic engagement activities extend to the communities around the globe where our employees live, work and raise their families. In 2014, we donated more than $10 million in cash, logged approximately 18,000 volunteer hours and had over 125 employees serve on boards of directors of 160 non-profit organizations.

Our Corporate Responsibility reports are available at www.brown-forman.com/responsibility.











Employees and Executive Officers

As of April 30, 2014, we employed approximately 4,200 people, including approximately 200 employed on a part-time or temporary basis. We believe our employee relations are good.

The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company as of June 19, 2014.





NameAgePrincipal Occupation andBusiness Experience

Paul C. Varga50Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 2007. Chief Executive Officer since 2005.

Jane C. Morreau55Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since February 2014. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer, and Head of Information Technology from 2013 to 2014. Senior Vice President, Director of Financial Management, Accounting and Technology from 2008 to 2012.

James S. Welch, Jr.55Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, and Diversity since 2012. Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, Diversity, and Human Resources from 2007 to 2012.

Matthew E. Hamel54Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since 2007.

Jill Ackerman Jones48Executive Vice President, President for North America and Latin America Regions since 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Production Officer from 2011 through 2012. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer from 2007 to 2011.

Mark I. McCallum59Executive Vice President, President for Europe, Africa, Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Travel Retail since 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 2009 through 2012. Executive Vice President and Chief Brands Officer from 2006 to 2009.

Alejandro “Alex” Alvarez46Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer since February 2014. Vice President, General Manager Casa Herradura from 2013 to 2014. General Manager Casa Herradura from 2008 to 2013.

Brian P. Fitzgerald41Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since 2013. Vice President, Finance Director of Greater Europe and Africa from 2009 to 2012. Assistant Vice President, Director Business Strategy and Analysis from 2007 to 2009.

Lisa P. Steiner54Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since 2009. Senior Vice President, Director of Global Human Resources from 2007 to 2009.

Lawson E. Whiting45Senior Vice President, Chief Brands Officer since 2013. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Western Europe from 2011 through 2012. Vice President, Finance Director Western Europe from 2010 to 2011. Vice President, Finance Director North America from 2009 to 2010.



Available Information

You can read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Our website address is www.brown-forman.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference, unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct that applies to all directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. We have also posted on our website the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary, Matthew E. Hamel, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.



