Item 1.Business



Overview

Brown-Forman Corporation (the “Company,” “Brown-Forman,” “we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and later incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901. We primarily manufacture, bottle, import, export, market, and sell a wide variety of alcoholic beverages under recognized brands. We employ over 4,400 people on six continents, including about 1,300 people in Louisville, Kentucky, USA, home of our world headquarters. We are the largest American-owned spirits and wine company with global reach. We are a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules, and the Brown family owns a majority of our voting stock.

For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary – Overview.”



Brands

Beginning in 1870 with Old Forester Bourbon Whisky – our founding brand – and spanning the generations since, we have built a portfolio of more than 30 spirit, wine, and ready-to-drink cocktail (RTD) brands that includes some of the best-known and most-loved trademarks in our industry. The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey, which is the fourth-largest spirits brand of any kind and the largest selling American whiskey brand in the world, according to Impact Databank’s “Top 100 Premium Spirits Brands Worldwide” list.1In its second year on the list, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey moved up to 89th on the Worldwide Impact list, selling over 1.3 million nine-liter cases in calendar year 2014, up 34% from the prior calendar year. Our other leading global brands on the Impact list are Finlandia, the seventh-largest-selling vodka; Southern Comfort, the fourth-largest-selling liqueur; Canadian Mist, the fourth-largest-selling Canadian whisky; and el Jimador, the fourth-largest-selling tequila.

Principal BrandsJack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskeyel Jimador TequilasJack Daniel’s RTDsel Jimador New Mix RTDsJack Daniel’s Tennessee HoneyWoodford Reserve Kentucky BourbonsGentleman Jack Rare Tennessee WhiskeyCanadian Mist Canadian WhiskyJack Daniel’s Tennessee FireHerradura TequilasJack Daniel’s Single BarrelSonoma-Cutrer California WinesJack Daniel’s Winter JackEarly Times Kentucky WhiskyJack Daniel’s Sinatra™ SelectEarly Times Fire EaterJack Daniel’s No. 27 Gold Tennessee WhiskeyEarly Times Kentucky BourbonFinlandia VodkasChambord LiqueurFinlandia RTDsPepe Lopez TequilaSouthern ComfortAntiguo TequilaSouthern Comfort flavored line extensionsOld Forester Kentucky BourbonSouthern Comfort RTDsTuaca LiqueurKorbel California Champagnes2Collingwood Canadian WhiskyKorbel California Brandy2Santa Dose Cachaça

1Impact Databank, a well-known U.S. trade publication, published these industry statistics in February 2015.2Not owned by Brown-Forman but sold by us under contract in the United States and other select markets.

See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2015 Brand Highlights” for additional information regarding the performance of our brands.

Our vision in marketing is to “be the best brand builders in the industry … period.” We build our brands by investing in programs that we believe create enduring connections with our consumers. These programs cover a wide spectrum of activities, including media (TV, radio, print, outdoor, and, increasingly, digital and social media), consumer and trade promotions, sponsorships, and visitor center programs at our distilleries and our winery. We expect to grow our sales and profits by consistently










delivering creative, responsible marketing programs that drive brand recognition, brand trial, brand loyalty, and, ultimately, consumer demand around the world.



Markets

Our products are sold in more than 160 countries around the world. Our largest international markets include Australia, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Germany, Poland, France, Russia, Turkey, Canada, and Japan. Over the last 10 years, we have greatly expanded our international footprint. In fiscal 2015, we generated 57% of our net sales outside the United States compared to 40% ten years ago. The United States, our largest, most important market, accounted for 43% of our net sales in fiscal 2015. We present the percentage of total net sales by geographic area for our most recent three fiscal years and, to provide historical context, fiscal 2005, below:

Percentage of Total Net Sales by Geographic AreaYear ended April 302005...201320142015United States60%...41%41%43%International:...Europe...30%32%31%Australia...14%12%11%Other...15%15%15%Total International40%...59%59%57%TOTAL100%100%100%100%

For details about net sales in our largest markets, refer to “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Fiscal 2015 Market Highlights.” For details about our reportable segment and for additional geographic information about net sales and long-lived assets, refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For details on risks related to our global operations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Distribution Network and Customers

Our distribution network, which we sometimes refer to as our “route-to-consumer,” takes a variety of forms, depending on (a) a market’s laws and regulatory framework for trade in beverage alcohol, (b) our assessment of a market’s long-term attractiveness and competitive dynamics, (c) the relative profitability of distribution options available to us, (d) the structure of the retail and wholesale trade in the market, and (e) our portfolio’s development stage in the market. As these factors change, we evaluate our route-to-consumer strategy and, from time to time, adopt a different model.

In the United States, which generally prohibits wine and spirits manufacturers from selling their products directly to consumers, we sell our brands either to distributors or (in states that directly control alcohol sales) to state governments that then sell to retail customers and consumers. In some states, we have distribution contracts; these contracts typically have no fixed term, but we can terminate them at any time if we pay a terminated distributor a fee (primarily based on a percentage of purchases over time). Some state franchise statutes limit our ability to terminate distributors or mandate a payment to a terminated distributor.

Outside the United States, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models. We own and operate distribution companies in 11 markets: Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, South Korea, Mexico, Poland, and Turkey. In these markets, we sell our products directly to retail stores, to wholesalers, or, in Canada, to provincial governments. In the United Kingdom, we partner in a cost-sharing arrangement with another supplier, Bacardi Limited, to sell a portfolio of both companies’ brands. In many other markets, including Italy, Japan, Russia, South Africa, and Spain, we rely on others to distribute our brands, generally under fixed-term distribution contracts.

We believe that our customer relationships are good. We believe our exposure to concentrations of credit risk is limited due to the diverse geographic areas covered by our operations.



Seasonality

Holiday buying makes the fourth calendar quarter the peak season for our business. Approximately 31% of our net sales for fiscal year ended April 30, 2013, was in the fourth calendar quarter. For the fiscal years ended April 30, 2014, and April 30, 2015, approximately 32% of our net sales were in the fourth calendar quarter.












Competition

Trade information indicates that we are one of the largest global suppliers of premium wine and spirits. According to International Wine & Spirit Research, for calendar year 2014, the ten largest global spirits companies controlled less than 20% of the total global market for spirits (on a volume basis). While we believe that the overall market environment offers considerable growth opportunities for us, our industry is now, and will remain, highly competitive. We compete against many global, regional, and local brands in a variety of categories of beverage alcohol, but most of our brands compete primarily in the industry’s premium-and-higher price categories. Our competitors include major global wine and spirits companies, such as Bacardi Limited, Beam Suntory Inc., Davide Campari-Milano S.p.A., Diageo PLC, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton S.A., Pernod Ricard S.A., and Rémy Cointreau S.A. In addition, particularly in the United States, we increasingly compete with (a) national companies, and (b) entrepreneurs, many of whom are recent entrants to the industry – typically with small-batch or craft spirit brands.

Brand recognition, brand provenance, quality of product and packaging, availability, taste, and price are factors that affect consumers’ choices among competing brands in our industry. Several factors influence consumers’ buying decisions, including: advertising; promotions; merchandising in bars, restaurants, and shops; expert or celebrity endorsement; social media and word-of-mouth; and the timing and relevance of new product introductions. Although some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, we believe that our competitive position is strong, particularly as it relates to brand recognition, quality, availability, and relevance of new product introductions.



Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits are water, corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, PET (polyethylene terephthalate, used in non-glass containers), labels, and wood for barrels, which are used for storing whiskey and certain tequilas. The principal raw materials used in liqueurs are neutral spirits, sugar, and wine, while the principal raw materials used in our RTD products are sugar, flavorings, neutral spirits, whiskey, tequila, and malt. The principal raw materials used in producing wines are grapes, packaging materials, and wood barrels. Our grape supply comes from a combination of owned vineyards located in California and contracts with independent growers. We believe that our relationships with our growers are good. Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply, but shortages in some of these could occur. From time to time, our agricultural ingredients (corn, rye, malted barley, agave, and grapes) could be adversely affected by weather and other forces that might constrain supply.

Due to aging requirements, we must schedule production of whiskeys, certain tequilas, and other distilled spirits to meet demand years in the future. As a result, our inventories may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than would be normal for many other businesses.

For details on risks related to the availability of raw materials and the uncertainty inherent in supply/demand forecasting, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”



Intellectual Property

Our intellectual property rights include trademarks, copyrights, proprietary packaging and trade dress, proprietary manufacturing technologies, know-how, and some patents. Our intellectual property, especially our trademarks, are essential to our business. We register our trademarks very broadly, some of them in every country where registration is possible. We register others where we sell or expect to sell our products. We protect our intellectual property rights vigorously but fairly. We have licensed some of our trademarks to third parties for use on products and services other than alcoholic beverages, which we believe enhances the awareness and protection of our brands.

For details on risks related to the protection of our intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” For additional information regarding our most important brands, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Fiscal 2015 Brand Highlights.”



Regulatory Environment

The production, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal, state, local, and foreign authorities. Various countries and local jurisdictions prohibit or restrict the marketing or sale of distilled spirits in whole or in part.

The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury regulates the wine and spirits industry in the United States with respect to production, blending, bottling, labeling, sales, advertising, and transportation of beverage alcohol products. Similar regulatory regimes exist in each state, as well as in most of the non-U.S. jurisdictions where we sell our products. In addition, distilled spirits products are subject to customs duties or excise taxation in many markets, including in the United States, at the federal, state, or local level.










Under U.S. federal regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged for at least two years in new charred oak barrels. We typically age our whiskeys between three and six years. Federal regulations also require that Canadian whisky must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws. Mexican authorities regulate the production and bottling of tequilas, which, among other specifications, mandate minimum aging periods forextraanejo(three years),anejo(one year), andreposado(two months) tequilas. We comply with these regulations.

Our operations within and outside the United States are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, and our policy is to comply with all those regulatory requirements.



Strategy

Five years ago, we introduced our “Brown-Forman 150” long-term strategy, focused on driving sustainable growth toward our 150th anniversary in 2020. The B-F Arrow is an articulation of our core principles: our purpose as well as the vision, values, and behaviors that we expect all of our employees to embrace and exhibit.



While these core principles are constant and powerful means of connecting our stakeholders to a shared vision of “Building Forever”, we continue to refresh our strategies to reflect current realities. The strategic ambitions described below both demonstrate a sustained focus on several drivers of our recent growth, which we believe remain relevant, and acknowledge the new and changing opportunities of today.

We continually seek to build brands and businesses that can create shareholder value. An excellent business for B-F is one that delivers strong growth, solid margins, and high returns. Given our growing size and scale, we are focusing on building brands that can be meaningful for our company over time. While our first priority is to drive the organic growth of our premium spirits portfolio, we will pursue innovation and consider acquisitions that meet our rigorous criteria as opportunities arise.

The Jack Daniel’s family of brands, including Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey, is our most valuable asset. We will always work to keep Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey strong, healthy, and relevant to consumers worldwide, and to take advantage of the abundant opportunities for growing the Jack Daniel’s family of brands across countries, price points, channels, and consumer groups. As product innovation has become increasingly important to the trademark in recent years, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to grow the Jack Daniel’s family of brands through careful, thoughtful line extensions.

We are the global leader in American whiskey, and we will pursue growth in the broader global, premium whiskey category when it makes sense. We believe that we can leverage our whiskey-making knowledge, production assets, trademarks, brand-building skills, and other capabilities to accomplish this objective. We will focus on the global growth of our most important whiskey, Jack Daniel’s. In addition, we expect to accelerate the growth of our other whiskey brands around the world, including Woodford Reserve and Old Forester, and to enter other attractive whiskey categories, as illustrated by our recently-announced plans forSlane Castle. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Executive Summary” for details about our acquisition of Slane Castle Irish Whiskey Limited.

We aim to grow Finlandia and Herradura. We plan to focus primarily on growing Finlandia in Poland, Russia, and other parts of eastern Europe. We will work to expand the reach of Herradura tequila to new consumers, emphasizing Mexico, the United States, and other select, high-potential markets. We are taking steps to reposition el Jimador tequila as a more premium brand in Mexico, its largest market; as a result, volumes will likely decline in Mexico in the short term, we expect overall performance of the brand to improve there over time. We also will continue our efforts to enhance and broaden the consumer appeal of the Southern Comfort brand.










The United States remains our largest market, and continuing to grow in this market is important to our long-term success. We expect to drive this growth through stronger participation in fast-growing spirits categories such as flavored whiskey, super-premium bourbon, and tequila; continued product and packaging innovation; continued route-to-consumer proficiency; and brand building within growing consumer segments, with increasing emphasis on multicultural marketing.

Over the last two decades, our business outside the United States has grown more quickly than our business within it. Although fiscal 2015 was an exception to this trend, as our net sales in the United States grew faster than outside the United States, we expect the longer-term trend to resume. Our ability to achieve our long-term growth objectives requires further development of our business globally, especially in emerging markets. We expect to grow our business in developed markets such as France, Germany, and the United Kingdom, and in emerging markets such as Mexico, Poland, Russia, and Turkey. We also expect increasingly significant contributions to our growth from other emerging markets such as Brazil, China, Southeast Asia, Africa, and eastern Europe. We will continue to pursue route-to-consumer strategies that will expand our access to and understanding of consumers in these diverse markets.

We believe that having a long-term-focused, committed, engaged shareholder base gives us an important strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands. So we plan to continue our engagement with our shareholders, including our controlling family shareholders.

Recognizing the strong cash-generating capacity and the capital efficiency of our business, we will continue to pursue what we believe to be well-balanced capital deployment strategies aimed at perpetuating Brown-Forman’s strength and independence.

Corporate Responsibility

In pursuing all of the objectives described above, we will strive to be responsible in everything we do. Our history of responsibility began in 1870, when our founder, George Garvin Brown, first sold medicinal whisky in glass bottles to ensure quality and safety – an innovative idea during a time when whisky was usually sold by the barrel. Today, achieving Brown-Forman’s business purpose, “enriching the experience of life,” is possible only within a context of corporate responsibility. This means promoting responsible consumer enjoyment of our brands; working to reduce alcohol abuse and misuse; protecting the environment; providing a healthy, safe, and inclusive workplace; and contributing to the global communities where we operate.

Alcohol Responsibility. We promote responsible consumption of our products, as we believe this will enhance our relationships with consumers, business partners, stakeholders, and society at large and is essential for the long-term prosperity of our company and our industry. When abused or misused, alcohol can contribute to significant harm both to individuals and the community. We appreciate the need for governments to regulate our industry appropriately and effectively, taking into account national circumstances and local cultures. Along with others and through partnership, we want to be part of the solution to real and complex problems such as underage drinking, drunk driving, and overconsumption.

As a significant player in the global beverage alcohol industry, we foster collective action with our peers. Working together with other producers, we are able to leverage our views on a scale that can create change. For example, we are working with the 13 other industry leaders that signed the Beer, Wine, and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking. In its second year, calendar 2014, the group made significant progress. We increased outreach to governments and other stakeholders on strengthening legal purchase age, launched the first ever Digital Guiding Principles for digital advertising, and developed guidelines for responsible retailing. Our progress on these commitments will be reported annually and more information can be found at www.producerscommitments.org.










Environmental Sustainability. We are pleased to have surpassed our previous 2020 greenhouse gas (GHG) and water goals ahead of schedule, and we have recently committed to a tougher challenge. In calendar 2014, we set new, more ambitious environmental sustainability goals, focused on reducing our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 15%, sending zero waste to landfill, and reducing our water use and wastewater discharges per unit of product by 30%. These new goals support our ambition to be a sustainability leader within our industry and in the countries where we have a significant presence. In calendar 2015, Brown-Forman received a Climate Leadership Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for Excellence in Greenhouse Gas Management (known as a Goal Setting Certificate). Brown-Forman was one of eight companies recognized for setting aggressive GHG goals. Brown-Forman Tequila Mexico was recognized by the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency (Procuraduría Federal de Protección al Ambiente) with the Level 2 Clean Industry Certificate. In addition to recognizing waste reduction efforts, the award reflects Casa Herradura’s broad commitment to environmental stewardship, including energy and emissions reductions, water conservation and treatment, and more. Casa Herradura is the first tequila distillery, and only the third company in the state of Jalisco, to receive this honor.

Diversity, Inclusion, and Human Rights. We believe that having a diverse and inclusive workforce is central to our success. As we work to increase the relevance and appeal of our brands to diverse consumer groups, we need a diversity of experiences and outlooks within our own workforce. We also want employees to feel comfortable in contributing their whole selves and different perspectives to the work they do. Over the past year, we’ve made progress with diverse representation at a senior level. Three women serve on our Board of Directors, and in fiscal 2015, Michael A. Todman became our first African-American director. Four out of 15 members of our Executive Leadership Team are women; two of the 15 members are minorities, appointed over the last two years. In 2015, Brown-Forman was once again awarded a perfect score of 100% in the Corporate Equality Index by the Human Rights Campaign, a civil rights organization promoting equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender Americans. This makes us one of the “Best Places to Work for LGBT equality” in the United States for the fifth consecutive year. Our employee resource groups have been the core of our diversity culture by supporting employees’ growth while enhancing their contributions.

In the marketplace, we focus on promoting fair and ethical business practices. We remain committed to the guidelines set forth in our Global Human Rights Statement, defining our commitment to respecting the fundamental rights inherent to all human beings. We share our human rights policies and practices with our suppliers through our Suppliers Guide to Human Rights.

Community Involvement. Our approach to philanthropy reflects our values as a corporate citizen. Our civic engagement supports non-profit organizations that make a positive impact and improve the lives of individuals and the vitality of our communities. We target our support in six general areas: arts and culture, education, environment, social services, alcohol responsibility, and community development. While our focus is in our hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, our civic engagement activities extend to the communities around the globe where our employees live, work, and raise their families. In 2015, we donated more than $10.5 million in cash, logged approximately 20,000 volunteer hours, and had over 130 employees serve on boards of directors of 190 non-profit organizations.

Our Corporate Responsibility reports are available at www.brown-forman.com/responsibility.



Employees and Executive Officers

As of April 30, 2015, we employed approximately 4,400 people, including about 200 employed on a part-time or temporary basis. Approximately 17% of our employees in the United States are represented by a union. We believe our employee relations are good.










The following persons serve as executive officers of the Company as of June 17, 2015.





NameAgePrincipal Occupation and Business Experience

Paul C. Varga51Company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 2007. Chief Executive Officer since 2005.

Jane C. Morreau56Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2014. Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer, and Head of Information Technology from 2013 to 2014. Senior Vice President, Director of Financial Management, Accounting and Technology from 2008 to 2013.

James S. Welch, Jr.56Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director Corporate and Civic Affairs since February 2015. Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, and Diversity from 2012 to 2015. Company Vice Chairman, Executive Director of Corporate Affairs, Strategy, Diversity, and Human Resources from 2007 to 2012.

Matthew E. Hamel55Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since 2007.

Jill Ackerman Jones49Executive Vice President, President for North America, Latin America, IMEA, and Global Travel Retail since February 2015. Executive Vice President, President for North America and Latin America Regions from 2013 to 2015. Executive Vice President, Chief Production Officer from 2007 to 2012.

Mark I. McCallum60Executive Vice President, President Jack Daniel’s Brands since February 2015. Executive Vice President, President for Europe, Africa, Middle East, Asia Pacific, and Travel Retail from 2013 to 2015. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer from 2009 to 2013. Executive Vice President and Chief Brands Officer from 2006 to 2009.

Lawson E. Whiting46Executive Vice President, Chief Brands and Strategy Officer since February 2015. Senior Vice President, Chief Brands Officer from 2013 to 2015. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Western Europe from 2011 to 2013. Vice President, Finance Director Western Europe from 2010 to 2011. Vice President, Finance Director North America from 2009 to 2010.

Alejandro “Alex” Alvarez47Senior Vice President, Chief Production Officer since 2014. Vice President, General Manager Brown-Forman Tequila Mexico Operations from 2008 to 2014.

Ralph De Chabert68Senior Vice President, Chief Diversity Officer since 2007.

Brian P. Fitzgerald42Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since 2013. Vice President, Finance Director of Greater Europe and Africa from 2009 to 2013.

Kirsten M. Hawley45Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2015. Senior Vice President, Director of HR Business Partnerships from 2013 to 2015. Vice President, Director Organization and Leader Development 2011 to 2013. Assistant Vice President, Director Employee Engagement from 2009 to 2011.

Thomas Hinrichs53Senior Vice President, President for Europe, North Asia, and ANZSEA since February 2015. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Europe from 2013 to 2015. Senior Vice President, Managing Director Greater Europe and Africa from 2006 to 2013.

Lisa P. Steiner55Senior Vice President, Chief of Staff and Director of Global Corporate Communications and Services since February 2015. Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer from 2009 to 2015. Senior Vice President, Director of Global Human Resources from 2007 to 2009.



Available Information

You can read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC in its Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

Our website address is www.brown-forman.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference, unless that information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct that applies to all directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior financial officers. If we amend or waive any of the provisions of our Code of Conduct or our Code of Ethics applicable to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or controller that relates to any element of the definition of “code of ethics” enumerated in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1934 Act, we intend to disclose these actions on our website. We have also posted on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee,










Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors. Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary, Matthew E. Hamel, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or emailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.



