Item 1.  Business



Brown-Forman Corporation (“we,” “us,” or “our” below) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1933, successor to a business founded in 1870 as a partnership and subsequently incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky in 1901.



We primarily manufacture, bottle, import, export, and market a wide variety of alcoholic beverage brands.  Our principal beverage brands are:



Jack Daniel’s Tennessee WhiskeyChambord VodkaJack Daniel’s Single BarrelDon Eduardo TequilaJack Daniel’s Ready-to-DrinksEarly Times BourbonJack Daniel’s Tennessee HoneyEarly Times Kentucky WhiskyGentleman Jackel Jimador TequilaSouthern ComfortHerradura TequilaSouthern Comfort Ready-to-DrinksKorbel California Champagnes*Southern Comfort Ready-to-PoursNew Mix Ready-to-DrinksSouthern Comfort LimeOld Forester BourbonFinlandia VodkaPepe Lopez TequilasAntiguo TequilaSonoma-Cutrer WinesCanadian Mist Blended Canadian WhiskyTuaca LiqueurChambord LiqueurWoodford Reserve Bourbon



*Represented in the U.S. and other select markets by Brown-Forman



The most important brand in our portfolio is Jack Daniel’s, which is the fifth-largest premium spirits brand and the largest selling American whiskey brand in the world according to volume statistics published in February 2011 by Impact Databank, a well-known trade publication. Our other leading global brands are Finlandia, the eighth-largest selling vodka, Southern Comfort, the third-largest selling liqueur, Canadian Mist, the fourth-largest selling Canadian whiskey, and el Jimador, the fourth-largest selling tequila, according to the recently published volume statistics referenced above. We believe the statistics used to rank these products are reasonably accurate.



Geographic information about net sales and long-lived assets is in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 67 of our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.



Our strategy is to market high quality products that satisfy the preferences of consumers of legal drinking age and to support those products with extensive international, national, and regional marketing programs.  These programs are intended to extend consumer brand recognition and brand loyalty.



We own numerous valuable trademarks that are essential to our business.  Registrations of trademarks can generally be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use.  Through licensing arrangements, we have authorized the use of some of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.











Customers



For information about our customers, refer to the section entitled "Our Distribution Network and Our Customers" on page 36 of the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.



Ingredients and Other Supplies



The principal raw materials used in manufacturing and packaging our distilled spirits are corn, rye, malted barley, agave, sugar, glass, cartons, PET (polyethylene terephthalate), labels, and wood for barrels, which are used for storage of bourbon, Tennessee whiskey, and certain tequilas.  The principal raw materials used in liqueurs are neutral spirits, sugar, and wine, while the principal raw materials used in our ready-to-drink products are sugar, neutral spirits, whiskey, tequila, or malt.  Currently, none of these raw materials is in short supply, and there are adequate sources from which they may be obtained, but shortages in some of these can occur.



Due to aging requirements, production of whiskeys, certain tequilas, and other distilled spirits is scheduled to meet demand three to ten years in the future. Accordingly, our inventories may be larger in relation to sales and total assets than would be normal for most other businesses.



The principal raw materials used in the production of wines are grapes, packaging materials and wood for wine barrels. Grapes are primarily purchased under contracts with independent growers, and we also own some vineyards in California; from time to time, our grape costs are adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production. We believe that our relationships with our growers are good.



Competition



For information about our competition, refer to the section entitled "Our Competition" on page 36 of the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.



Regulatory Environment



The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the United States Treasury Department regulates the wine and spirits industry with respect to production, blending, bottling, sales, advertising, and transportation of industry products. Also, each state regulates the advertising, promotion, transportation, sale, and distribution of such products.



Under federal regulations, bourbon and Tennessee whiskeys must be aged for at least two years in new charred oak barrels.  We age all of our whiskeys for a minimum of three to six years.  Federal regulations also require that "Canadian" whiskey must be manufactured in Canada in compliance with Canadian laws.  Mexican authorities regulate the production of tequilas, which among other specifications, require minimum aging periods for anejo (one year) and reposado (two months) tequilas.  We believe we are in compliance with these regulations.







Employees



As of April 30, 2011, we employed about 3,900 persons, including approximately 200 employed on a part-time or temporary basis.  We believe our employee relations are good.



For more information about our business, refer to the sections entitled “Our Operations and Our Markets” and “Our Brands” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis on pages 33 through 36 of the 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is incorporated into this report by reference.



Available Information



You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.



Our website address is www.brown-forman.com.  Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those reports with the SEC.  The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference, unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.



On our website, we have posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Code of Conduct and Compliance Guidelines that apply to all directors and employees, and our Code of Ethics that applies specifically to our senior executive and financial officers.  We have also posted on our website the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, and Executive Committee of our Board of Directors.  Copies of these materials are also available free of charge by writing to our Secretary, Matthew E. Hamel, 850 Dixie Highway, Louisville, Kentucky 40210 or e-mailing him at Secretary@b-f.com.











