ITEM 1Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW

General Mills, Inc. is a leading global manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer foods sold through retail stores. We are also a
leading supplier of branded and unbranded food products to the foodservice and commercial baking industries. We manufacture our products in 16 countries and market them in more than 100 countries. Our joint ventures manufacture and market products
in more than 130 countries and republics worldwide.

General Mills, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. The terms “General
Mills,” “Company,” “registrant,” “we,” “us,” and “our” mean General Mills, Inc. and all subsidiaries included in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report unless the
context indicates otherwise.

Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

Our product
categories in the United States include ready-to-eat cereals, refrigerated yogurt, ready-to-serve soup, dry dinners, shelf stable and frozen vegetables, refrigerated and frozen dough products, dessert and baking mixes, frozen pizza and pizza snacks,
grain, fruit and savory snacks, and a wide variety of organic products including granola bars, cereal, and soup.

In Canada, our product
categories include ready-to-eat cereals, shelf stable and frozen vegetables, dry dinners, refrigerated and frozen dough products, dessert and baking mixes, frozen pizza snacks, refrigerated yogurt, and grain and fruit snacks.

In markets outside of the United States and Canada, our product categories include super-premium ice cream and frozen desserts, refrigerated yogurt,
snacks, shelf stable and frozen vegetables, refrigerated and frozen dough products, and dry dinners. In addition, we sell ready-to-eat cereals through our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture.

For net sales contributed by each class of similar products, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

Our
products are marketed under trademarks and service marks that are owned by or licensed to us. The most significant trademarks and service marks used in our businesses are set forth initalicsin this report. Some of the important trademarks
used in our global operations include:

Ready-to-eat cereals

Cheerios,Wheaties,Lucky Charms,Total,Trix,Golden Grahams,Chex,Kix,Fiber One,Reese’s Puffs,Cocoa Puffs,Cookie
Crisp,Cinnamon Toast Crunch,Clusters,Oatmeal Crisp, andBasic 4

Refrigerated yogurt

Yoplait,Trix,Delights,Go-GURT,Fiber One,Whips!,Mountain High,Liberté,YOP,Perle de Lait,Petits Filous, andPanier.

Refrigerated and frozen dough products

Pillsbury, thePillsbury Doughboycharacter,Grands!,Golden Layers,Big Deluxe,Toaster Strudel,Toaster
Scrambles,Simply,Immaculate Baking Company, andJus-Rol







Dinners

Betty Crocker,Hamburger Helper,Tuna Helper,Chicken Helper,Old El Paso,Suddenly Salad,Betty Crocker Complete Meals,Wanchai Ferry,Diablitos,Parampara,Yoki,Latina,Pasta Master,V.Pearl, andLa Salteña

Ready-to-serve soup

ProgressoandKitano

Frozen pizza

Totino’s,Jeno’s, andParty Pizza

Shelf stable and frozen
vegetable products

Green Giant,Potato Buds,Valley Selections,Simply Steam, andValley Fresh Steamers

Grain, fruit, and savory snacks

Nature Valley,Fiber One,Betty Crocker,Fruit Roll-Ups,Fruit By The Foot,Gushers,Chex Mix,Gardetto’s,Bugles,Food Should Taste Good,Lärabar,Yokitos,Pizza Rolls,Pizza Pops, andPillsbury Pizza Minis

Dessert and baking mixes

Betty Crocker,SuperMoist,Warm Delights,Bisquick, andGold Medal

Ice cream and frozen desserts

Häagen-Dazs,Secret Sensations,Cream Crisp, andDolce

Organic products

Cascadian FarmandMuir Glen

Soy beverages

Mais Vita

Trademarks are vital to our businesses. To protect our ownership and rights, we
register our trademarks with the Patent and Trademark Office in the United States, and we file similar registrations in foreign jurisdictions. Trademark registrations in the United States are generally for a term of 10 years, renewable every 10
years as long as the trademark is used in the regular course of business.

Some of our products are marketed under or in combination with
trademarks that have been licensed from others, including:



•Dora the Explorer,Disney Cars,Disney Princesses, andTeenage Mutant Ninja Turtlesfor yogurt;

•Dora the ExplorerandReese’s Puffsfor cereal;

•Hershey’schocolate for a variety of products;

•Weight Watchersas an endorsement for yogurt, soup, and frozen vegetable products;

•Macaroni Grillfor frozen dinners;

•Sunkistfor baking products and fruit snacks;

•Cinnabonfor refrigerated dough, frozen pastries, and baking products;

•Bailey’sfor super-premium ice cream; and

•a variety of brands and characters for fruit snacks, includingMott’s,Ocean Spray,Scooby Doo,Batman,Tom
and Jerry,Hello Kitty,Thomas the Tank Engine,My Little Pony,Transformers, and various Warner Bros. and Nickelodeon characters.







We license all of our cereal trademarks to CPW, our joint venture with Nestlé S.A. (Nestlé).
Nestlé similarly licenses certain of its trademarks to CPW, including theNestléandUncle Tobystrademarks. We own theHäagen-Dazstrademark and have the right to use the trademark outside of the United
States and Canada. Nestlé has an exclusive royalty-free license to use theHäagen-Dazstrademark in the United States and Canada on ice cream and other frozen dessert products. We also license this trademark to our
Häagen-Dazs Japan, Inc. (HDJ) joint venture. The J. M. Smucker Company holds an exclusive royalty-free license to use thePillsburybrand and thePillsbury Doughboycharacter in the dessert mix and baking mix categories in the
United States and under limited circumstances in Canada and Mexico. We also license ourGreen Gianttrademark to a third party for use in connection with its sale of fresh produce in the United States. We use theYoplaitand related
trademarks under license from an entity in which we own a 50 percent interest and we further license these trademarks to franchisees.

Given
our focus on developing and marketing innovative, proprietary products, we consider the collective rights under our various patents, which expire from time to time, a valuable asset, but we do not believe that our businesses are materially dependent
upon any single patent or group of related patents.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our principal research and development facilities are located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our research and development resources are focused on new
product development, product improvement, process design and improvement, packaging, and exploratory research in new business and technology areas. Research and development expenditures were $238 million in fiscal 2013, $245 million in fiscal 2012,
and $235 million in fiscal 2011.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

We review the financial results of our business under three operating segments: U.S. Retail; International; and Bakeries and Foodservice. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) in Item 7 of this report for a description of our segments. For financial information by segment and geographic area, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this
report.







JOINT VENTURES

In addition to our consolidated operations, we participate in two joint ventures. We have a 50 percent equity interest in CPW, which manufactures and markets ready-to-eat cereal products in more than 130
countries and republics outside the United States and Canada. CPW also markets cereal bars in several European countries and manufactures private label cereals for customers in the United Kingdom. We also have a 50 percent equity interest in HDJ,
which manufactures, distributes, and marketsHäagen-Dazsice cream products and frozen novelties.

CUSTOMERS

Our primary customers are grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, commercial and
noncommercial foodservice distributors and operators, restaurants, and convenience stores. We generally sell to these customers through our direct sales force. We use broker and distribution arrangements for certain products or to serve certain
types of customers.

During fiscal 2013, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates (Wal-Mart) accounted for 21 percent of our consolidated net
sales and 31 percent of our net sales in the U.S. Retail segment. No other customer accounted for 10 percent or more of our consolidated net sales. Wal-Mart also represented 6 percent of our net sales in the International segment and 7 percent
of our net sales in the Bakeries and Foodservice segment. As of May 26, 2013, Wal-Mart accounted for 28 percent of our U.S. Retail receivables, 5 percent of our International receivables, and 7 percent of our Bakeries and Foodservice
receivables. The five largest customers in our U.S. Retail segment accounted for 54 percent of its fiscal 2013 net sales, the five largest customers in our International segment accounted for 24 percent of its fiscal 2013 net sales, and the five
largest customers in our Bakeries and Foodservice segment accounted for 41 percent of its fiscal 2013 net sales.

For further information on
our customer credit and product return practices please refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

COMPETITION

The consumer foods
industry is highly competitive, with numerous manufacturers of varying sizes in the United States and throughout the world. The food categories in which we participate are also very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories all have
substantial financial, marketing, and other resources. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, and the ability to
identify and satisfy consumer preferences. Our principal strategies for competing in each of our segments include effective customer relationships, superior product quality, innovative advertising, product promotion, product innovation, an efficient
supply chain, and price. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised, branded products, but also with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Internationally, we compete with both
multi-national and local manufacturers, and each country includes a unique group of competitors.

SEASONALITY

In general, demand for our products is evenly balanced throughout the year. However, within our U.S. Retail segment demand for refrigerated dough, frozen
baked goods, and baking products is stronger in the fourth calendar quarter. Demand forProgressosoup andGreen Giantcanned and frozen vegetables is higher during the fall and winter months. Internationally, demand forHäagen-Dazsice cream is higher during the summer months and demand for baking mix and dough products increases during winter months. Due to the offsetting impact of these demand trends, as well as the different seasons in the northern
and southern hemispheres, our International segment net sales are generally evenly balanced throughout the year.

BACKLOG

Orders are generally filled within a few days of receipt and are subject to cancellation at any time prior to shipment. The backlog of any unfilled
orders as of May 26, 2013, was not material.







WORKING CAPITAL

A description of our working capital is included in the Liquidity section of MD&A in Item 7 of this report. Our product return practices are described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this report.

EMPLOYEES

As of May 26, 2013, we had approximately 41,000 full- and part-time employees.

FOOD
QUALITY AND SAFETY REGULATION

The manufacture and sale of consumer food products is highly regulated. In the United States, our
activities are subject to regulation by various federal government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Agriculture, Federal Trade Commission, Department of Commerce, and Environmental Protection Agency, as well as
various state and local agencies. Our business is also regulated by similar agencies outside of the United States.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

As of May 26, 2013, we were involved with three active cleanup sites associated with the alleged or threatened release of hazardous
substances or wastes located in: Sauget, Illinois; Minneapolis, Minnesota; and Moonachie, New Jersey. These matters involve several different actions, including administrative proceedings commenced by regulatory agencies and demand letters by
regulatory agencies and private parties.

We recognize that our potential exposure with respect to any of these sites may be joint and
several, but have concluded that our probable aggregate exposure is not material to our consolidated financial position or cash flows from operations. This conclusion is based upon, among other things: our payments and accruals with respect to each
site; the number, ranking and financial strength of other potentially responsible parties; the status of the proceedings, including various settlement agreements, consent decrees, or court orders; allocations of volumetric waste contributions and
allocations of relative responsibility among potentially responsible parties developed by regulatory agencies and by private parties; remediation cost estimates prepared by governmental authorities or private technical consultants; and our
historical experience in negotiating and settling disputes with respect to similar sites.

Our operations are subject to the Clean Air Act,
Clean Water Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, and all similar state, local, and foreign environmental laws
and regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate.

Based on current facts and circumstances, we believe that neither the
results of our environmental proceedings nor our compliance in general with environmental laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The section below
provides information regarding our executive officers as of July 3, 2013:

Y. Marc Belton,age 54, is Executive Vice
President, Global Strategy, Growth and Marketing Innovation. Mr. Belton joined General Mills in 1983 and has held various positions, including President of Snacks from 1994 to 1997, New Ventures from 1997 to 1999, and Big G cereals from 1999 to
2002. He had oversight responsibility for Yoplait, General Mills Canada, and New Business Development from 2002 to 2005, and has had oversight responsibility for Growth and Marketing Innovation since 2005 and Global Strategy since September 2010.
Mr. Belton was elected a Vice President of General Mills in 1991, a Senior Vice President in 1994, and an Executive Vice President in 2006. He is a director of U.S. Bancorp.







John R. Church,age 47, is Executive Vice President, Supply Chain. Mr. Church
joined General Mills in 1988 as a Product Developer in the Big G cereals division and held various positions before becoming Vice President, Engineering in 2003. In 2005, his role was expanded to include development of the company’s strategy
for the global sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing capabilities. He was named Vice President, Supply Chain Operations in 2007, Senior Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008, and to his present position in July 2013.

Michael L. Davis,age 57, is Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources. Mr. Davis joined General Mills in 1996 as Vice
President, Compensation and Benefits, after spending 15 years in consulting with Towers Perrin. In 2002, his role was expanded to include staffing activities, and in 2005, he became Vice President, Human Resources for the U.S. Retail and Corporate
groups. He was named to his current position in 2008.

Peter C. Erickson,age 52, is Executive Vice President,
Innovation, Technology and Quality. Mr. Erickson joined General Mills in 1994 as part of the Colombo yogurt acquisition. He has held various positions in Research & Development and became Vice President, Innovation, Technology and
Quality in 2003 and Senior Vice President, Innovation, Technology and Quality in 2006. He was named to his present position in July 2013.

Ian R. Friendly,age 52, is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, U.S. Retail. Mr. Friendly joined General
Mills in 1983 and held various positions before becoming Vice President of CPW in 1994, President of Yoplait in 1998, Senior Vice President of General Mills in 2000, and President of the Big G cereals division in 2002. In 2004, he was named Chief
Executive Officer of CPW. Mr. Friendly was named to his present position in 2006. He is a director of The Valspar Corporation.

Donal L. Mulligan,age 52, is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Mulligan joined General Mills in 2001 from
The Pillsbury Company. He served as Vice President, Financial Operations for our International division until 2004, when he was named Vice President, Financial Operations for Operations and Technology. Mr. Mulligan was appointed Treasurer of
General Mills in 2006, Senior Vice President, Financial Operations in July 2007, and was elected to his present position in August 2007. From 1987 to 1998, he held several international positions at PepsiCo, Inc. and YUM! Brands, Inc.
Mr. Mulligan is a director of Tennant Company.

Kimberly A. Nelson, age 50, is Senior Vice President, External Relations,
and President of the General Mills Foundation. Ms. Nelson joined General Mills in 1988 and has held marketing leadership roles in the Big G, Snacks and Meals divisions. She was elected Vice President, President, Snacks in 2004, Senior Vice
President, President, Snacks in 2008, and Senior Vice President, External Relations in September 2010. She was named President of the General Mills Foundation in May 2011.

Shawn P. O’Grady,age 49, is Senior Vice President, President, Sales & Channel Development. Mr. O’Grady joined General Mills in 1990 and held several marketing
roles in the Snacks, Meals and Big G cereal divisions. He was promoted to Vice President in 1998 and held marketing positions in the Betty Crocker and Pillsbury USA divisions. In 2004, he moved into Consumer Foods Sales, becoming Vice President,
President, U.S. Retail Sales in 2007, and Senior Vice President, President, Consumer Foods Sales Division in May 2010. He was promoted to his current position in June 2012.

Christopher D. O’Leary,age 53, is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, International. Mr. O’Leary joined General Mills in 1997 as Vice President,
Corporate Growth. He was elected a Senior Vice President in 1999 and President of the Meals division in 2001. Mr. O’Leary was named to his present position in 2006. Prior to joining General Mills, he spent 17 years at PepsiCo, Inc., last
serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Hostess Frito-Lay business in Canada. Mr. O’Leary is a director of Telephone and Data Systems, Inc.

Roderick A. Palmore,age 61, is Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance and Risk Management Officer, and Secretary. Mr. Palmore joined General Mills in this
position in 2008 from the Sara Lee Corporation, a consumer foods and products company. He spent 12 years at Sara Lee, last serving as Executive Vice President and General Counsel since 2004. Mr. Palmore is a director of CBOE Holdings, Inc. and
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.







Kendall J. Powell,age 59, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
General Mills. Mr. Powell joined General Mills in 1979 and served in a variety of positions before becoming a Vice President in 1990. He became President of Yoplait in 1996, President of the Big G cereal division in 1997, and Senior Vice
President of General Mills in 1998. From 1999 to 2004, he served as Chief Executive Officer of CPW. He returned from CPW in 2004 and was elected Executive Vice President. Mr. Powell was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of General
Mills with overall global operating responsibility for the company in 2006, Chief Executive Officer in 2007, and Chairman of the Board in 2008. He is a director of Medtronic, Inc.

Jerald A. Young,age 56, is Vice President, Controller. Mr. Young joined General Mills in 1992 and held several finance roles within the Pillsbury division before he was
appointed Vice President of Finance for the Bakeries and Foodservice Division in 2000. Mr. Young was subsequently appointed Vice President Internal Audit in 2005 and Vice President, Supply Chain in 2008. He was named to his present position in
August 2011.

WEBSITE ACCESS

Our website iswww.generalmills.com.We make available, free of charge in the “Investors” portion of this website, annual reports on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (1934 Act) as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Reports of beneficial ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act are also available on our website.



