
10-K405


                                    FORM 10-K

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

 [X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the Fiscal Year Ended December 26, 1997

                                       OR

 [ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the transition period from              to
                                       ------------    ------------

                          Commission File Number 1-8022
                                                 ------

                                 CSX Corporation
              ----------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                Virginia                             62-1051971
       -------------------------------         ---------------------
       (State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)          Identification Number)


  901 East Cary Street, Richmond, Virginia           23219-4031
  ----------------------------------------           ----------
  (Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (804) 782-1400


Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                           Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                on which registered
      --------------------------          -----------------------
      Common Stock, $1 Par Value          New York Stock Exchange


Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of Registant's  knowledge,  in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  (X)

On January 23, 1998, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting stock
held by non-affiliates (using the New York Stock Exchange closing price) was $11
billion.

On January 23, 1998, there were 218,308,863 shares of Common Stock outstanding.




DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The proxy  statement  for the annual  meeting of  security  holders on April 28,
1998, is incorporated by reference for Part III.


ITEM CAPTIONS AND INDEX -- FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

Item No.                                                         Page
Part I
  1. Business..............................................3-4, 12-27
  2. Properties.......................................12-27, 33-34,39
  3. Legal Proceedings....................................10,18-19,48
  4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..........N/A
 4a. Executive Officers of the Registrant..........................52

Part II
  5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and
      Related Stockholder Matters...............................54-56
  6. Selected Financial Data........................................4
  7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations.............12-27
  8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data..........See Item 14
  9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
      on Accounting and Financial Disclosure......................N/A

Part III
 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...........(a)
 11. Executive Compensation.......................................(a)
 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
      and Management..............................................(a)
 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...............(a)

Part IV
14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
     on Form 8-K
      a. Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the
         Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 26, 1997, Dec. 27, 1996,
         and Dec. 29, 1995.........................................29

         Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the
         Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 26, 1997, Dec. 27, 1996,
         and Dec. 29, 1995.........................................30

         Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at
         Dec. 26, 1997, and Dec. 27, 1996..........................31

         Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'
         Equity for the Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 26, 1997,
         Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995..........................32

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the
         Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 26, 1997, Dec. 27, 1996,
         and Dec. 29, 1995......................................33-50

         Report of Independent Auditors............................51

      b. Reports on Form 8-K: None.

      c. See Index to Exhibits.....................................61

      d. Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and 
          Schedule of Conrail Inc. for the Years Ended
          Dec. 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.


(a) Part III will be incorporated by reference from the  registrant's 1998 Proxy
    Statement pursuant to instructions G(1) and G(3) of the General Instructions
    to Form 10-K.



                                CSX Corporation

CSX  Corporation  is  a  Fortune  500  transportation  company  providing  rail,
intermodal,   container-shipping,   barging  and  contract   logistics  services
worldwide.

Our holdings  include:  CSX  Transportation  Inc.,  Sea-Land  Service Inc.,  CSX
Intermodal Inc.,  American  Commercial Lines Inc. and Customized  Transportation
Inc.

The company's  non-transportation  interests include: The Greenbrier,  the Grand
Teton  Lodge  Company,  and CSX Real Property  Inc.  CSX also  holds a  majority
interest in Yukon Pacific Corporation.

In 1997, CSX generated more than $10.6 billion of operating revenue.




                              Financial Highlights


See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


(a) Net earnings for 1997 include the effects of the company's 42% investment in
Conrail Inc. (Conrail).  Pending regulatory approval of the joint acquisition of
Conrail by CSX and  Norfolk Southern  Corporation,  the  ownership  interest  in
Conrail is being held in a voting  trust and the  company  is not  permitted  to
consolidate  its portion of the Conrail system with its rail  operations.  Under
the equity  method of  accounting,  the company has  recognized  income from its
share of Conrail's  net  earnings,  as well as expense for  amortization  of its
purchase price in excess of its share of Conrail's net book value.  The combined
effect of these items,  net  interest on debt issued to acquire the  investment,
and other expenses  related to the joint  acquisition  reduced the company's net
earnings for 1997 by $97 million, 43 cents per share.

(b) In 1995, the company  recognized a net investment  gain of $77 million,  $51
million after tax, 24 cents per share,  on the issuance of an equity interest in
a Sea-Land terminal and related operations in Asia and the write-down of various
investments.

(c) In 1994,  the state of Florida  elected to satisfy  its  remaining  unfunded
obligation  issued in 1988 to  consummate  the purchase of 80 miles of track and
right of way.  The  transaction  resulted in an  accelerated  pretax gain of $69
million and increased net earnings by $42 million, 20 cents per share.

(d) The  company  revised its  estimated  annual  effective  tax rate in 1993 to
reflect the change in the federal statutory income tax rate from 34% to 35%. The
effect  of this  change  was to  increase  income  tax  expense  for 1993 by $56
million,  26 cents per share. Of this amount,  $51 million,  24 cents per share,
related to applying the newly enacted  statutory income tax rate to deferred tax
balances as of Jan. 1, 1993.

(e) In 1995, the company  recorded a $257 million pretax charge to recognize the
estimated costs of initiatives to revise,  restructure and consolidate  specific
operations  and  administrative  functions  at its rail  and  container-shipping
units. The 1995  restructuring  charge reduced net earnings by $160 million,  76
cents per share.  In 1993,  the company  recorded a $93 million pretax charge to
recognize the estimated costs of restructuring  certain operations and functions
at its  container-shipping  unit.  The 1993  restructuring  charge  reduced  net
earnings by $61 million, 30 cents per share.

(f) Net earnings per common  share,  assuming  dilution,  includes the effect of
potentially  dilutive  securities such as stock options on average common shares
outstanding  and has  been  calculated  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards Board Statement No. 128,  "Earnings Per Share,"
adopted by the company in 1997.  Amounts per common  share for 1993 through 1995
have been  restated  to reflect a 2-for-1  common  stock  split  distributed  to
shareholders in December 1995.

(g) Employee counts based on annual averages.




                               Chairman's Message

[PHOTO]

              1997 was a  historic  year for CSX Corporation,  one
              in which we embarked on a course that will transform
              our company and create  immense potential for growth
              and prosperity.

The  landmark  agreement to divide  Conrail  with  Norfolk  Southern -- the most
important  milestone  for CSX since the 1980 merger that  created the company --
significantly  advances our strategic  interests.  It gives CSX a new, important
dimension:  an opportunity to grow rail revenues  substantially  and enhance our
earnings power greatly.

Once the Surface Transportation Board (STB) approves the Conrail transaction and
we  have  combined   Conrail's   Northeast  and  Midwest   operations  with  CSX
Transportation's  larger,  complementary  network,  we will markedly  change the
competitive environment for transportation services in the region. For the first
time, Eastern railroads will be in a position to compete effectively with trucks
- --  especially  on  north-south  shipments - for an  important  share of the $77
billion intercity transportation market in the East.

Such a robust  competitive  environment  will set the stage  for a  growing  and
dynamic  CSX. We will create  growth for  ourselves  and for the  customers  and
communities  we serve,  bringing more  business and more jobs to the region.  By
attracting freight to the rails and accommodating communities and rail passenger
services in the region, we will improve highway safety and the environment while
reducing  highway  maintenance and  construction  costs.  These important public
benefits can be achieved only with approval of this transaction.

No railroad  merger in recent history has experienced as lengthy and as thorough
a review as this  transaction  will have undergone by the time it is approved in
mid-1998.  We are making  the most of this time.  Since the middle of last year,
hundreds  of our  employees  and  managers,  along  with their  counterparts  at
Conrail,  have been  involved  in an  intense  planning  process  to ensure  the
effective and efficient integration of our portion of Conrail's  operations.  We
are  delighted  with the quality of the Conrail  employees and the railroad they
have created.



[PHOTO]

               Continued improvement in safety and in service 
               will be  key to our  ability to  compete  more 
               effectively.


We are  taking  a fresh  look at how we run our  railroad,  while  conducting  a
parallel review of the way Conrail  approaches the same operational  tasks. This
review will allow us to improve  overall  service by  adopting a  best-practices
approach to the Conrail  integration,  one that takes full advantage of the best
each organization has to offer.

Our  management  team also has studied  the recent  rail  mergers in the Western
United  States  and  the  safety  issues  and  service  disruptions  there  that
frustrated  shippers and raised  concerns among them about our own  transaction.
The Western  railroads,  their  customers and the regulatory  agencies have been
open and candid with us, sharing many valuable lessons.  While we are certain to
encounter  bumps in the  road  when we move  forward,  we are  confident  in our
abilities and committed to accomplishing two imperatives:  continued improvement
in safety and in customer  service.  Both are key to our ability to compete more
effectively with trucks and to achieve our growth strategy.

We realize that integrating two great rail systems is a huge,  complex task, but
our  employees  and  those who will be  joining  us from  Conrail  are up to the
challenge.  We will move  forward  with our  integration  process  only when the
necessary  labor  agreements,   staffing,   capital   improvements,   technology
enhancements and operating plans are tested and in place.

The Conrail transaction affords us an exciting opportunity to usher in a new era
of  transportation  in the  East.  We  firmly  believe  the  new  CSX  will be a
powerhouse company,  fully capable of meeting our aggressive growth,  profit and
free cash flow targets, thus creating exceptional value for our shareholders.

                             1997 FINANCIAL RESULTS

Strong performances by our rail,  intermodal and contract logistics units during
1997 were tempered by disappointing results at our  container-shipping and barge
companies.  Still, CSX produced  operating  income of $1.58 billion,  up 4% from
1996's record level.

On a consolidated  basis, CSX earned $799 million in 1997, or $3.62 a share on a
diluted  basis,  vs.  $855  million  in 1996,  or $3.96 a share.  1997  earnings
reflected the impact of the Conrail transaction,  including the interest expense
on the money we borrowed to finance the  transaction.  Excluding  the effects of
the Conrail  transaction,  CSX would have earned $896 million, up 5% from 1996's
record.  These were solid  results,  considering  the  severe  impact  that rate
erosion exerted at our container-shipping and barge companies.

Our  shareholders  were rewarded with returns that outpaced rail industry peers.
The total  return  of CSX stock in 1997,  including  reinvested  dividends,  was
30.5%, exceeding that of the S&P Railroad Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average
and  only  slightly  trailing  that of the S&P 500  Index.  Confidence  in CSX's
financial  strength and future earnings growth led the CSX Board of Directors to
raise the quarterly dividend 15%, from 26 cents a share to 30 cents a share.



               We will maintain our focus on improving performance
               and profitability.


RAIL RESULTS
While devoting considerable attention to the Conrail acquisition and integration
planning, our rail unit, CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT), maintained its focus on
cutting costs,  improving service and increasing revenue in 1997. The result was
another operating income record of $1.23 billion, up 9% from 1996's level.

The  railroad's  strategy to grow its  business  was evident in the  merchandise
sector,  where revenue rose 4%. Total revenue growth was held to 2%, however, as
mild weather and weak foreign demand reduced coal revenue.

CSXT's  determined  campaign to control  costs,  combined  with its  strategy to
improve margins, continued to pay dividends. The operating ratio, a productivity
measure  that divides  operating  expense by  operating  revenue,  improved to a
record  75.4%,  down a point and a half from 1996's level and an  impressive  12
points since 1990.


PRO FORMA NET EARNINGS
(Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts*)

                          1997               1996               1995
                     ----------------------------------------------------
Description                   Per                Per                Per    
(all after tax)       Amt.   Share       Amt.   Share       Amt.   Share
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Earnings
  as Reported        $799    $3.62      $855    $3.96      $618    $2.91
Effect of
  Investment
  in Conrail           97      .43        --       --        --       --
Net Gains from
  Investment
  Transactions         --       --        --       --       (51)    (.24)
Restructuring
  Charge               --       --        --       --       160      .76
                     ----    -----      ----    -----      ----    ----- 
Pro Forma
 Net Earnings        $896    $4.05      $855    $3.96      $727    $3.43
                     ====    =====      ====    =====      ====    =====

* All per-share  amounts assume dilution.  Per-share  amounts for 1995 have been
  adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split.


INTERMODAL RESULTS
CSX Intermodal Inc. (CSXI) produced 1997 operating income of $46 million, up 31%
from the prior year's level. The improved results reflected both stronger demand
for  intermodal  service and the  favorable  results of CSXI's action in 1996 to
streamline its national  intermodal  network.  That network redesign  eliminated
less-profitable   routes   and   enhanced   traffic   and   service   levels  on
more-profitable routes.

Late in the year, Les Passa, a 20-year veteran of Conrail and a highly respected
member of its  management  team,  took the reins as chief  executive  officer of
CSXI.  His leadership  strength and knowledge of Conrail  operations and markets
will be of great value to CSX as our  intermodal  company adds critical  Conrail
routes and makes significant investments to its expanded intermodal network.

Intermodal  service -- when trailers and containers are placed  directly on rail
cars for longer hauls -- is the rail industry's  fastest  growing  sector.  CSXI
will be an  increasingly  important  contributor  to CSX  earnings  as we absorb
Conrail  routes  and  move  significant  volumes  of  freight  off the  nation's
congested highways.

CONTAINER-SHIPPING RESULTS
Our  container-shipping  business,  Sea-Land Service Inc. (Sea-Land),  performed
admirably   in   adverse   market    conditions.    Excess   capacity   in   the
container-shipping  industry has resulted in significant rate deterioration over
the past two years in most major trade lanes. Sea-Land offset much of the impact
of lower rates through  stringent cost control and higher volumes.  In 1997, the
company  handled 1.65 million  loads,  up 7% from 1996's level,  but the average
rate it received  for  shipping a  container  fell 8%.  Consequently,  operating
income at Sea-Land fell 13% to $278 million.



Though disappointed with prevailing industry conditions,  we are encouraged that
Sea-Land  has  weathered  this  period of severe rate  declines  better than its
competitors and has increased its market share significantly in key trade lanes.
Furthermore,  we  see  continued  consolidation  within  the  container-shipping
industry and  increased  government  deregulation  as  promising  signs that the
industry is responding favorably to rational market forces.

BARGING RESULTS
Severe flooding and a difficult rate environment dealt a double blow to American
Commercial Lines (ACL),  our barging company.  The worst flooding along the Ohio
River in 30 years shut down portions of the river system  beginning in March and
resulted in restricted  operations along the Ohio and Lower  Mississippi  rivers
through May. In addition,  lower demand for U.S. grain exports  reduced  freight
rates for grain and other dry  cargo.  This  combination  of events led to a 38%
drop in ACL's operating income, to $69 million.

More favorable  barge  operating  conditions  are expected in 1998,  though rate
pressures are likely to persist.  Improved grain demand,  coupled with stringent
cost control, should produce improved results.

[PHOTO]

CONTRACT  LOGISTICS RESULTS
Customized  Transportation  Inc.  (CTI),  our contract  logistics  company,  has
enjoyed  terrific growth in recent years by helping  businesses more effectively
and  efficiently  manage and coordinate  their delivery and supply  systems.  In
1997, CTI continued its unbroken record of performance improvement since joining
the CSX family in 1993.  Revenue rose 23% and  operating  income rose 40% to $24
million.



                                 LOOKING AHEAD


               1998 promises to be a year of unprecedented activity,
               challenge and opportunity for CSX.


We eagerly await the completion of the regulatory review of the proposed Conrail
acquisition so we can begin  achieving the sizable  benefits that will flow from
the extension of  single-line  service to customers,  consumers and  communities
within the Conrail territory.

We also look forward to competing  aggressively  throughout the Conrail  service
territory with Norfolk Southern, our partner and competitor,  as we restore rail
competition to the East and take freight off the highways.

As we push ahead with our Conrail  integration  planning,  we will  maintain our
focus on improving the performance and profitability of each CSX  transportation
unit.  As always,  our  efforts  will be driven by our  commitment  to  maximize
shareholder value.

Clearly, 1998 will be a watershed year for CSX. Our employees and those who will
be joining us from Conrail are eager to begin  leveraging  the  strengths of our
two great  companies.  I have complete  confidence in their ability to execute a
smooth transition that will enable CSX to emerge from the Conrail acquisition as
the best rail-based transportation company in the nation.


                                       /s/ John W. Snow
                                           ------------
                                           John W. Snow
                                           Chairman and Chief Executive Officer






                            Public Policy Statement


               In 1997, government at all levels  again  played an
               important role in several issues touching the heart
               of CSX's business.   Decisions  made  in  1998 will
               affect  not  only  our  company   but   the  entire
               transportation industry.


CONRAIL
The  successful  completion  of the  acquisition  of Conrail by CSX and  Norfolk
Southern Corporation is of critical importance to us. It is now the subject of a
painstaking,  345-day  review by the Surface  Transportation  Board  (STB),  the
federal agency that must approve the acquisition.

Excellent  progress has been made. We have been  successful  in building  strong
support not only from  government  officials,  but from our major  shippers  and
shipper  organizations  as well. It is noteworthy that the Department of Justice
and the Department of Transportation,  U.S.  government  agencies that have been
skeptical of railroad  mergers in the past, had comments about the  transaction,
but did not oppose it. The public  benefits of the acquisition -- increased rail
competition,  improved  service  and the  diversion  of  trucks  from  congested
highways--were clearly recognized by the more than 2,000 shippers and 14 states,
from  Massachusetts  to Florida,  that have officially  endorsed the CSX-Conrail
acquisition.  As a result of this public support,  Congress rejected legislative
efforts to block or delay the transaction.

As we write  this,  the STB  continues  its  careful  study of the impact of the
transaction on the environment,  customers,  employees,  communities,  passenger
service and safety. The problems that occurred in the West,  following the Union
Pacific-Southern  Pacific  merger,  have raised  concerns  among  shippers  over
whether mergers of this magnitude can be implemented smoothly.

We are  determined  that our  transaction  will not repeat what  happened in the
West.  The  railroad  that CSX will  acquire  is much  smaller,  well run and in
excellent condition financially and otherwise.  Its employees are highly skilled
and motivated.  From the outset of the  transaction,  CSX has been planning with
great  intensity  for the  integration  of the  railroads  in such key  areas as
safety,  capital  improvements,   information  technology,  manpower  and  labor
agreements.  Combined  operation  of Conrail  lines will not begin  until  these
components are  effectively in place and service can be assured.  We are already
working  with our  shippers,  public  constituents  and labor to assure a smooth
transition.

COMMITMENT TO SAFETY
Above all,  CSX is committed to  operating  in the safest  manner  possible.  In
October,  the United  Transportation  Union (UTU) and CSX Transportation  (CSXT)
entered  into a  partnership  to build a model  rail  industry  safety  process.
Working with the Federal  Railroad  Administration  (FRA), the UTU and CSXT will
develop   specific  action  plans  to  improve  safety  and  to  foster  greater
cooperation between union employees and managers. In December, CSX submitted its
Safety  Integration  Plan  for  the  new  CSX  rail  system  to  the  STB.  This
first-of-its-kind  document spells out the careful processes by which the safety
aspects of the Conrail  integration  and  consolidated  operation of the systems
will be addressed.

In terms of legislation,  as Congress  prepares to take up the Federal  Railroad
Safety  Act in 1998,  CSXT is  working  to  improve  upon the gains made in rail
transportation  safety over the past decade. The most important  objective is to
set realistic standards by which to measure safety improvements.

"OPEN ACCESS" AND  RE-REGULATION
The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which freed the railroads from outdated  economic
regulation,  set the stage for the remarkable recovery of the railroads from the
financial  disasters of the 1970s.  Now there are calls from some shippers for a
return  to the old era of  stifling  government  intervention.  Some of this new
regulation  is bring  given  the  misleading  label of  "competitive"  or "open"
access.

In reality,  what some shippers want is to force a freight railroad such as CSXT
to allow other railroads to operate over its property without fair compensation.
Far from creating  competition  in a free  marketplace,  this  so-called  "open"
access would have to be administered by a government  agency and would result in
long  regulatory  proceedings  that would  take away the  economic  benefits  of
freedom from regulation.

Another  proposal  would  simply  gut  the  Staggers  Act by  repealing  its key
provisions.  Almost all rail rates would again be subject to challenge  before a
regulatory  agency, and railroads would lose the ability to price their services
based on competitive market forces.



From the vantage point of today's  multibillion  dollar freight business,  it is
easy to forget that just 20 years ago, when shipping  rates and virtually  every
other aspect of the freight rail business were tightly  controlled by government
regulators, America's railroads were on the brink of collapse. In fact, nearly a
fourth of the  nation's  rail  assets  were then in  bankruptcy.  The last thing
today's  railroads  or their  customers  need is a return to a failed  system of
government  regulation  that did not work then and will not work now. The impact
of the current  proposed changes would be to wreck the balance that exists today
between the  interests  of shippers and  railroads.  They would  jeopardize  the
ability of  railroads  to attract  needed  capital  and to provide  the safe and
reliable service our customers want and expect.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  CSX will continue working to insure that changes to rail safety
                 laws are  consistent with our  widely acclaimed safety  process
                 and our voluntary safety programs.

TORT REFORM
CSX has been a proponent of tort reform for some time,  and the urgency for that
reform hit home this year with a jury  verdict  against  CSXT of $2.5 billion in
punitive damages.

The case grew out of a tank car leak and fire in New  Orleans for which CSXT was
in no way responsible -- an incident that fortunately  caused local residents no
serious injuries or significant property damage.  Moreover, after a very careful
and thorough  investigation,  the National Transportation Safety Board confirmed
CSXT was not at fault for the incident.  But the event provided further evidence
of the need to restore  rationality to our  civil-justice  system and to rein in
greedy trial lawyers and runaway juries.

We are  pleased  that the  Louisiana  Supreme  Court  vacated  and set aside the
judgment until all liability issues have been determined.  We are now working to
undo the remaining  injustice of the case. Although our case was extreme, it was
far from the only instance of huge punitive  awards bearing no  relationship  to
fault.  There  is  something  fundamentally  wrong  with a  system  that  allows
penalties to be assessed  based on the depth of a company's  pockets rather than
its responsibility for an incident. Laws define unacceptable conduct and set the
penalties  to be imposed for not abiding by its rules.  The very  existence of a
system permitting  unlimited punitive damages for ill-defined actions encourages
lawyers to inflame juries and juries to ignore the facts and, instead, to act on
pure emotion.

Lawyers,  government officials and the general public should be deeply concerned
about  punitive  damages  that  effectively  distort  the rule of law and punish
capriciously.  The law should never tolerate  distinctions based on status. This
is a fight that should not be left solely to business  interests,  but should be
of concern to every citizen.


MARITIME ISSUES
Because of the overriding importance of the Conrail transaction, our main public
policy  focus  has  been on rail  issues.  There  also is  legislation  of great
significance for the future of the maritime industry,  which the Congress should
act  on  during  1998.  One  bill  would  reduce  economic   regulation  of  the
container-shipping  industry. This legislation,  which has the strong support of
CSX and its subsidiary Sea-Land,  will give shipping lines the freedom they need
to negotiate service contracts tailored to the needs of their customers. Another
piece of  legislation  awaiting  action  is a bill to carry out the terms of the
international  treaty to  eliminate  subsidies by foreign  governments  to their
shipyards and to allow U. S. shipyards to compete effectively.


THE YEAR AHEAD
1998 will be a critical year in which the future  structure of the rail industry
will be decided by the STB and in which  Congress may make  important  decisions
affecting  the rail and maritime  transportation  industries.  While the Conrail
acquisition will be of paramount importance, high on our agenda will be ensuring
that any changes to rail safety laws are  consistent  with our voluntary  safety
programs, and turning back efforts to reimpose burdensome economic regulation on
the railroads. CSX will continue to play an active role in public policy debates
concerning  transportation,  to ensure that the outcomes  enhance our ability to
provide safe,  reliable and efficient  transportation  services to our customers
and superior returns to our shareholders.




                                Financial Policy

CSX'S FINANCIAL PRINCIPLES
The management of CSX Corporation  reports the company's financial condition and
results of operations in an accurate, timely and conservative manner in order to
give  shareholders  all the information  they need to make investment  decisions
about the company.

In  this  section,   financial   information  is  presented  to  assist  you  in
understanding  the sources of earnings,  the financial  resources of the company
and  the  contributions  of the  major  business  units.  In  addition,  certain
information  needed to meet the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  Form 10-K
requirements   has  been  included  in  the  Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial
Statements.

Our key  objective is to increase  shareholder  value by improving the return on
invested capital and maximizing free cash flow. To achieve these goals, managers
utilize the following  guidelines in conducting the financial  activities of the
company:

    Capital - CSX  business  units are expected to earn returns in excess of the
    CSX cost of capital.  Business units that do not earn a return above the CSX
    cost of capital and do not generate an adequate level of free cash flow over
    an  appropriate  period  of  time  will  be  evaluated  for  sale  or  other
    disposition.

    Taxes - CSX  will  pursue  all  available  opportunities  to pay the  lowest
    federal,  state and  foreign  taxes,  consistent  with  applicable  laws and
    regulations  and the company's  obligation to carry a fair share of the cost
    of government.  CSX also works through the legislative process for lower tax
    rates.

    Debt Rating - The company will strive to maintain its investment  grade debt
    ratings, which allow cost-effective access to financial markets. The company
    will manage its business operations in a manner consistent with meeting this
    objective, insuring adequate cash to service its debt and fixed charges.

    Derivative Financial  Instruments - From time to time the company may employ
    derivative financial instruments as part of its risk management program. The
    objective  is to manage  specific  risks and  exposures,  not to trade  such
    instruments for profit or loss.

    Dividends  - The cash  dividend  is  reviewed  regularly  in the  context of
    inflation and  competitive  dividend  yields.  The dividend may be increased
    periodically if cash flow  projections and reinvestment  opportunities  show
    the higher payout level will best benefit shareholders.

CSX  cannot  always  guarantee  that its  goals  will be met,  despite  its best
efforts.  For example,  revenue and operating expenses are affected by the state
of the economy and the  industries  the company  serves.  Changes in  regulatory
policy can drastically  change the cost and  feasibility of certain  operations.
The impact of factors  such as these,  along with the  uncertainty  involved  in
predicting  future  events,  should  be  borne  in  mind  when  reading  company
projections or forward-looking statements in this report.

MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING
The consolidated  financial  statements of CSX have been prepared by management,
which is responsible for their content and accuracy.  The statements present the
results of  operations,  cash flows and  financial  position  of the  company in
conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting  principles  and,  accordingly,
include amounts based on management's judgments and estimates.

CSX  and  its  subsidiaries  maintain  internal  controls  designed  to  provide
reasonable  assurance  that assets are  safeguarded  and that  transactions  are
properly  authorized by management and are recorded in conformity with generally
accepted  accounting  principles.  Controls include  accounting  tests,  written
policies and procedures and a code of corporate conduct  routinely  communicated
to all  employees.  An internal  audit staff  monitors  compliance  with and the
effectiveness of established policies and procedures.

The  Audit  Committee  of the board of  directors,  composed  solely of  outside
directors,  meets  periodically  with  management,  internal  auditors  and  the
independent  auditors to review audit findings,  adherence to corporate policies
and  other  financial  matters.  The  firm of  Ernst &  Young  LLP,  independent
auditors,  has been  engaged to audit and report on the  company's  consolidated
financial  statements.  Its audit was  conducted in  accordance  with  generally
accepted  auditing  standards  and  included  a review  of  internal  accounting
controls to the extent  deemed  necessary  for the purpose of its report,  which
appears on page 51.


                             Analysis of Operations

CSX  Corporation,  headquartered  in  Richmond,  Va.,  is a leading  provider of
multimodal  freight  transportation  and contract  logistics services around the
world. CSX's unique combination of rail, container-shipping, barging, intermodal
and  logistics  services  offers  shippers  global reach  unmatched by any other
freight  transportation  company.  The company's  goal,  advanced at each of its
business units, is to provide efficient,  competitive transportation and related
services for customers and to deliver superior value to CSX shareholders.


CSX TRANSPORTATION INC.
CSXT is a major eastern railroad,  providing rail freight  transportation over a
network of  approximately  18,300 route miles in 20 states in the East,  Midwest
and South; and in Ontario,  Canada.  Headquartered  in Jacksonville,  Fla., CSXT
accounted  for 47% of CSX's  operating  revenue and 78% of  operating  income in
1997.


SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.
Sea-Land  is the  largest  U.S.-based  ocean  carrier and a leader in the global
shipping  industry.  The  carrier  operates  a fleet of 98  container  ships and
approximately 220,000 containers in U.S. and foreign trade and serves 120 ports.
In addition,  Sea-Land operates 28 marine terminal  facilities across its global
network.  Headquartered in Charlotte,  N.C., Sea-Land accounted for 37% of CSX's
operating revenue and 18% of operating income in 1997.


AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LINES INC.
ACL,  headquartered  in  Jeffersonville,  Ind., is a family of marine  companies
providing  a wide range of  services  to the  shipping  public and other  inland
waterway  carriers.  ACL is a leader  in  barge  transportation,  operating  135
towboats  and more than  3,800  barges on U.S.  and  South  American  waterways.
Additionally,  ACL operates marine construction facilities,  river terminals and
communications  services. ACL accounted for 6% of CSX's operating revenue and 4%
of operating income in 1997.


CSX INTERMODAL INC.
CSXI provides transcontinental intermodal transportation services and operates a
network of dedicated  intermodal  facilities  across North America.  Every week,
CSXI  runs  more  than 300  dedicated  trains  between  its 33  terminals.  CSXI
contributed 6% of CSX's operating revenue and 3% of operating income in 1997.


CUSTOMIZED TRANSPORTATION INC.
CTI is one of the nation's leading  third-party  logistics  providers,  offering
inventory  management,  distribution,  warehousing,  assembly  and  just-in-time
delivery  services.  The fastest  growing  unit of CSX, CTI provided 4% of CSX's
operating revenue and 1% of operating income in 1997.


NON-TRANSPORTATION
Resort holdings  include the Mobil  Five-Star and AAA  Five-Diamond  hotel,  The
Greenbrier in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., and the Grand Teton Lodge Company in
Moran, Wyo.

CSX Real Property Inc. is  responsible  for sales,  leasing and  development  of
CSX-owned properties.

CSX holds a majority interest in Yukon Pacific  Corporation,  which is promoting
construction of the  Trans-Alaska  Gas System to transport  Alaska's North Slope
natural gas to Valdez for export to Asian markets.



                             DISCUSSION OF EARNINGS


               CSX  produced  solid  results in 1997,  positioning
               itself to increase core  earnings  significantly in
               the  years  ahead.   Strong  rail,  intermodal  and
               logistics results produced record operating income.


                            Average Return on Assets
                                   (Percent)

                                    [GRAPH]

                       '93*    '94     '95*    '96     '97
                       2.7     4.8     4.4     5.9     4.3

               * Excluding after-tax  restructuring charges and the 
                 impact of  the  1993 tax-rate  increase, return on 
                 assets in  1993 and  1995 would have been 3.6% and
                 5.6%, respectively.

Net earnings for 1997 totaled $799 million,  $3.67 per share, compared with $855
million,  $4.00 per share, in 1996, and $618 million,  $2.94 per share, in 1995.
Earnings per share on a diluted  basis were $3.62,  compared  with $3.96 in 1996
and $2.91 in 1995.

The 1997 results  include the impact on earnings of the company's 42% investment
in Conrail, which has been reported under the equity method of accounting. While
the transaction awaits regulatory approval, the company is incurring interest on
the  debt  issued  to  acquire  the  investment,  as  well as  certain  expenses
associated  with the  acquisition  and activities  undertaken to prepare for the
integration  of the CSXT and Conrail  systems.  Interest on the  Conrail-related
debt   totaled   $236   million   for   the   year,   while    acquisition   and
integration-related  expenses  totaled $61 million.  Under the equity  method of
accounting,  the company is recognizing  income from its proportionate  share of
Conrail's net earnings and expense for the amortization of its purchase price in
excess  of its share of  Conrail's  net book  value.  Equity  in  Conrail's  net
earnings  totaled $144 million,  and  amortization  of the excess purchase price
totaled $42 million for the year.  The  combined  effect of these items  reduced
CSX's net earnings by $97 million, 43 cents per share on a diluted basis.

The 1995 net  earnings  included  the  effect of a  restructuring  charge  and a
non-recurring  gain  from the  issuance  of an  equity  interest  in a  Sea-Land
terminal and related operations in Asia. The restructuring  charge reflected the
write-down of obsolete telecommunications assets and related employee separation
costs at CSXT, as well as costs associated with reflagging five Sea-Land vessels
and consolidating Sea-Land's corporate and divisional headquarters in Charlotte,
N.C. The combined  effect of these items reduced CSX's 1995 net earnings by $109
million, 52 cents per share on a diluted basis.

                            Average Return on Equity
                                   (Percent)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93*    '94     '95*    '96     '97
                    11.7    18.6    15.5    18.9    15.2

              * Excluding after-tax restructuring charges and the
                impact of the  1993 tax-rate increase,  return on
                equity in 1993 and 1995 would have been 14.0% and
                19.1%, respectively.

Consolidated  operating revenue for 1997 was $10.6 billion, 1% above 1996 and 3%
above 1995.  CSXT  contributed  $80  million of  additional  revenue  over 1996,
largely resulting from strength in its automotive  business unit,  chemicals and
most other  merchandise  groups.  Additionally,  the company's  intermodal  unit
increased  revenue  by  1% to  $669  million,  reflecting  strong  demand  and a
relatively  stable rate  environment.  The contract  logistics unit, CTI, posted
revenue of $389  million,  an increase of $73 million over 1996 and $149 million
over 1995. Despite generating  significant volume increases,  Sea-Land's revenue
decreased $60 million to $4.0 billion, due to continued rate weakness across all
major trade lanes.  ACL  generated  $618  million of revenue,  almost level with
1996's  total.  Revenue from barge  operations at ACL declined 4% from 1996 as a
result of rate weakness and difficult weather,  although a 10% increase in barge
construction and other revenue offset most of the shortfall.

In 1997,  all CSX  units  continued  their  efforts  to  control  costs  through
performance  improvement  initiatives.  Consolidated  operating expense remained
level with 1996 at $9.0 billion. Operating expense in 1995 totaled $9.2 billion,
including  the $257 million  pretax  restructuring  charge  recorded by CSXT and
Sea-Land.

Consolidated  operating  income for 1997 was $1.6  billion,  compared  with $1.5
billion in 1996 and $1.1 billion in 1995. Absent the restructuring  charge, 1995
operating income would have been $1.4 billion.



Other income for 1997 totaled $51 million, compared with $43 million in 1996 and
$118 million in 1995.  The 1997 total includes $34 million in net income related
to the investment in Conrail, consisting of the equity in Conrail's net earnings
less  amortization  of the excess purchase price and acquisition and integration
expenses.  Other income for 1995  included a $77 million  pretax net  investment
gain  related to the  issuance  of the equity  interest  in a Sea-Land  terminal
facility and related operations in Asia.


[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  Performance   Improvement   Teams   work   beyond   traditional
                 boundaries  to  identify  and  close  competitive  gaps.    PIT
                 initiatives  are  responsible  for   millions  in  capital  and
                 operating  expense  savings  since  their  inception  in  1992.

                    
                            DISCUSSION OF CASH FLOW

Cash  provided by operating  activities  totaled $1.6 billion in 1997,  compared
with $1.4 billion in 1996 and $1.6  billion in 1995.  Cash from  operations  was
adequate to fund net property  investments  and cash dividends in 1997, 1996 and
1995. In addition,  CSX funded scheduled long-term debt payments of $98 million,
$486 million and $343 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

The company's net cash flow for 1997 and 1996 included significant items related
to the  Conrail  transaction.  Cash used to acquire  the  investment  in Conrail
totaled $2.2 billion for a 22.1% ownership interest in 1997 and $2.0 billion for
a 19.9% interest in 1996. Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were used
to finance the Conrail  acquisition,  including $2.5 billion from an offering of
fixed rate  debentures in 1997 and $2.0 billion from  commercial  paper in 1996.
Approximately  $300 million of the proceeds from the debentures was not required
to complete the  acquisition  of the Conrail  investment in 1997 and was used to
reduce the  commercial  paper  borrowings  incurred in 1996.  In addition to the
acquisition  of the  ownership  interest in Conrail and the related  financings,
property  additions for 1997 included  $119 million of  expenditures  associated
with upgrading routes on CSXT's rail system and intermodal  facilities in CSXI's
network in preparation for the consolidation of CSXT and Conrail lines.

Productivity and restructuring charge payments totaled $51 million, $88 million,
and $155 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  These payments related
principally  to CSXT's 1991/92  productivity  charge  covering labor  agreements
providing for two-member  train crews.  Through 1997, the company has made total
payments of $975 million related to this productivity charge.


                             Fixed Charge Coverage

                                    [GRAPH}

                      '93*    '94     '95*    '96     '97
                      2.3     3.1     3.2     4.0     2.9

               * Excluding after-tax restructuring charges, fixed               
                 charge coverage in 1993 and 1995 would have been
                 2.5x and 3.7x, respectively.


Asset utilization and capital  productivity  continue to be areas of significant
emphasis at CSX.  Capital  investments  for 1997,  including the $119 million in
spending to prepare for the Conrail integration, totaled $1.1 billion, down from
$1.2  billion  in  1996  and  1995.  Excluding  the  Conrail  spending,  capital
investments  for 1997 reflect a $217 million  reduction from 1996. The reduction
is  primarily  attributable  to  fewer  locomotive  deliveries  at CSXT in 1997.
Capital investments at Sea-Land were down $56 million, primarily due to one-time
spending  in 1996 to  acquire  containers  previously  covered  under  operating
leases.



Cash dividends per common share were $1.08 for 1997, compared with $1.04 in 1996
and 92 cents in 1995. The Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend to
30 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 1997,  reflecting  confidence in the
company's financial strength and future earnings growth.

CSX expects its operations to continue generating  significant cash flow to fund
working  capital  requirements,   capital  investments,   debt  obligations  and
dividends.  The company expects to continue to have access to financial markets,
if necessary,  to fund operations,  working capital, or other cash requirements.
Two-thirds  of the capital  spending  required to integrate  the CSX and Conrail
systems  is  expected  to occur in  1998.  With  this  spending,  total  capital
investments are expected to increase to a level near $1.4 billion for the coming
fiscal year.  Sea-Land's  program to add nine  high-performance,  fuel-efficient
container  vessels to its fleet was  substantially  complete  at the end of 1997
and, as a result,  capital  investments  at the unit are  expected to decline in
1998.


                        DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL POSITION

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term  investments  totaled $690 million at Dec.
26, 1997, vs. $682 million at Dec. 27, 1996.

The  company's  working  capital  deficit  decreased  $153 million  during 1997,
primarily  due to  reductions  in  short-term  debt  levels.  The  company had a
year-end  working  capital  deficit of $532 million in 1997,  compared with $685
million in 1996. A working  capital  deficit is not unusual for CSX and does not
indicate  a lack of  liquidity.  CSX  maintains  adequate  resources  to satisfy
current  liabilities when they are due and has sufficient  financial capacity to
manage its day-to-day cash requirements.



The company's  investment in Conrail increased to $4.2 billion at Dec. 26, 1997,
from $2.0 billion at Dec. 27,  1996.  The increase  reflects the change in CSX's
ownership  interest  in  Conrail  from  19.9% to 42% in May 1997 under the joint
acquisition agreement with Norfolk Southern.

Long-term debt at Dec. 26, 1997, totaled $6.4 billion,  $2.1 billion higher than
the end of fiscal year 1996.  The  increase is  attributable  to the issuance of
debt to finance the  completion of the joint Conrail  acquisition.  The ratio of
debt to total  capitalization  increased to 52% at the end of 1997,  from 46% in
1996.

                           Cash Provided by Operations
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                   '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                  $962    $1,326   $1,567   $1,440   $1,558


[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  CSX Transflo,  a network of  specialized terminals that enables
                 customers not served by rail to transfer product between rail-
                 cars, trucks, and containers, plans to expand its bulk transfer
                 terminal network by more than 50% in 1998, to well over 100
                 locations.




(a) Certain  prior-year  data  have been  reclassified  to  conform to  the 1997
    presentation.

(b) A portion  of  intercompany  interest  income  received from  the CSX parent
    company has been classified as a reduction of Miscellaneous expense  by  the
    container-shipping unit.  This amount was $63  million,  $64 million and $65
    million  in 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively, and the corresponding charge
    is included in Eliminations/Other.

(c) Excludes restructuring charge.



                              CONRAIL ACQUISITION

In April 1997, CSX and Norfolk Southern entered into an agreement  providing for
their  joint  acquisition  of Conrail  and the  division of its routes and other
assets.

Under  the  terms  of the  agreement,  CSX and  Norfolk  Southern  acquired  all
outstanding  shares of Conrail not  already  owned by them for $115 per share in
cash during the second  quarter of 1997.  CSX and Norfolk  Southern each possess
50% of the voting and management rights of a jointly owned acquisition  company,
and non-voting equity is divided between the parties to achieve overall economic
allocations of 42% for CSX and 58% for Norfolk Southern.  Following  approval by
the STB as described below,  Conrail's assets will be segregated within Conrail,
and CSX and Norfolk Southern will each benefit from the operation of a specified
portion  of the  Conrail  routes  and other  assets  through  the use of various
operating  arrangements.  Certain  Conrail assets will be operated for the joint
benefit of CSX and Norfolk Southern.

The total cost of acquiring  the  outstanding  shares of Conrail under the joint
CSX/Norfolk  Southern agreement was approximately $9.8 billion.  Pursuant to the
agreement, CSX has paid 42%, or approximately $4.1 billion, and Norfolk Southern
has paid 58%,  or  approximately  $5.7  billion,  of such  cost.  Including  its
capitalized transaction costs, CSX's total purchase price was approximately $4.2
billion.


JOINT STB APPLICATION
The Conrail  shares have been placed in a voting  trust  pending STB approval of
the joint acquisition,  control and division of Conrail. The exercise of control
over  Conrail  by CSX and  Norfolk  Southern  remains  subject  to a  number  of
conditions and approvals, including approval by the STB, which has the authority
to modify contract terms and impose additional conditions.

CSX and Norfolk  Southern filed an  application  for control of Conrail with the
STB in June 1997. The STB has adopted a schedule that contemplates a decision in
late July 1998. CSX believes that the STB will approve the joint application for
control without imposing onerous conditions. However, should the application not
be approved by the STB, or should the STB impose  onerous  approval  conditions,
the closing may be delayed, or CSX may be required to, or may choose to, dispose
of some or all of its  investment in Conrail in a manner that could cause CSX to
incur a loss on its investment in Conrail.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  CSX  maintains  a  top-to-bottom  commitment  to  environmental
                 protection.

FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
CSX originally  arranged a $4.8 billion bank credit facility in November 1996 to
provide  initial  financing  for the  Conrail  acquisition  and to meet  general
working  capital  needs.  The facility was amended in May 1997, and the lenders'
commitments were reduced to $2.5 billion,  reflecting the issuance of fixed rate
debentures.  Currently,  the  facility is used as support for  commercial  paper
issuance.


The fixed rate debentures,  issued through a $2.5 billion  multitranche  private
offering in May 1997,  have  maturities  ranging  from 2002 to 2032 and interest
rates ranging from 6.95% to 8.30%.

ENHANCED EFFICIENCIES AND REVENUE GROWTH
Management  expects the  integration  of Conrail  operations  resulting from the
transaction to add approximately  $1.7 billion,  or 16%, to CSX's annual revenue
beginning in the first 12 months following operational consolidation. Management
believes that the  transaction  also will result in growth of the company's rail
revenue  base  through  expansion of  single-line  service and CSX's  ability to
compete more effectively against trucks on major freight routes.


INTEGRATION PLANNING
The  company  is  actively  planning  for  the  smooth  integration  of  Conrail
operations  into the CSXT rail system after the STB control date.  Plans involve
all facets of combining the two systems,  including:  safety;  customer service;
train  scheduling,  switching,  and  routing;  equipment  utilization  and track
programs; commuter and passenger rail; marketing;  technology; labor agreements;
and  administration.   Related  capital   improvements  to  certain  routes  and
facilities  on the  CSX  rail  system  also  have  been  initiated.  Operational
integration is expected to take place once the necessary implementing agreements
have been reached, which currently is anticipated in late 1998.


FINANCIAL EFFECTS
Including transaction costs, the overall purchase price paid by CSX exceeded the
historical  book value of its  proportionate  share of  Conrail's  net assets by
approximately $2.9 billion.  A substantial  portion of the excess purchase price
is expected to be allocated to reflect the fair value of Conrail's  property and
equipment.  The company has based its provision for  amortization  of the excess
purchase price on preliminary  estimates of the fair values of such property and
equipment and estimates of their remaining useful lives, as well as estimates of
the fair values of other assets and liabilities of Conrail.

Because of the time required to obtain necessary regulatory and other approvals,
CSX does not  expect  integrated  operations  to have a  significant  effect  on
operating and financial  results prior to fiscal 1999. The primary impact of the
Conrail  transaction on net earnings prior to the integration of operations will
be the  after-tax  effect of the  company's  share of  Conrail's  net  earnings,
reported under the equity method of accounting,  less amortization of the excess
purchase price and interest on debt incurred to acquire the Conrail  investment.
Net cash flow prior to  operational  integration  is  expected  to be reduced by
interest  payments  on the  acquisition  debt.  At Dec.  26,  1997,  the average
interest rate on debt incurred to acquire Conrail shares was approximately 6.9%.
The degree of negative impact on net earnings and net cash flow during 1998 will
depend  primarily  on the net  earnings  reported  by  Conrail  and the  average
interest rate and timing of interest payments on the related debt.

                                 OTHER MATTERS
LITIGATION
In  September  1997,  a state court jury in New Orleans  returned a $2.5 billion
punitive  damages  award  against  CSXT.  The award  was made in a  class-action
lawsuit against a group of nine companies based on personal  injuries alleged to
have arisen from a 1987 fire. The fire was caused by a leaking chemical tank car
parked on CSXT tracks and  resulted in the 36-hour  evacuation  of a New Orleans
neighborhood.  In the same  case,  the court  awarded  a group of 20  plaintiffs
compensatory  damages  of  approximately  $2  million  against  the  defendants,
including  CSXT,  to which the jury assigned 15% of the  responsibility  for the
incident.  CSXT's  liability  under  that  compensatory  damages  award  is  not
material.

In October  1997,  the Louisiana  Supreme  Court set aside the punitive  damages
judgment,  ruling the judgment  should not have been entered until all liability
issues were  resolved.  CSX believes this decision  means that 8,000 other cases
must be resolved  before the  punitive  damage  claims can be  decided.  CSXT is
pursuing an aggressive  strategy on all legal fronts,  and  management  believes
that any adverse outcome will not be material to CSX's or CSXT's overall results
of operations or financial position, although it could be material to results of
operations in a particular quarterly accounting period.

CSX has been advised that activities of a former  subsidiary  that  administered
U.S. government guaranteed student loans are under investigation. The subsidiary
was sold in 1992.  The U.S.  Attorney's  Office  has said that it may  institute
proceedings  against  CSX  based  on  government   insurance  payments  made  on
uncollected  loans as a result  of  alleged  processing  deficiencies  or errors
before the sale.  While the amount of  potential  damages is not yet  reasonably
estimable, based upon information currently available to the company, management
believes any adverse outcome will not be material to CSX's results of operations
or financial position, although it could be material to results of operations in
a particular quarterly accounting period.



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
CSX generates and transports hazardous and nonhazardous waste in its current and
former operations, and is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws
and regulations.  The company has identified approximately 250 sites at which it
is or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged  contamination
or for  violations of  environmental  requirements.  Approximately  120 of these
sites are or may be subject  to  remedial  action  under the  federal  Superfund
statute or similar state statutes. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and
several liability for the remediation of identified sites;  consequently,  CSX's
ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to other parties, in
addition to costs relating to its own activities at each site.


A liability  of $99 million has been accrued for future costs at all sites where
the  company's  obligation  is probable  and where such costs can be  reasonably
estimated;  however, the ultimate cost could be higher or lower than the amounts
currently  provided.  The liability  includes  future costs for  remediation and
restoration of sites, as well as for ongoing  monitoring costs, but excludes any
anticipated  recoveries  from  third  parties.  Cost  estimates  were  based  on
information  available for each site,  financial  viability of other potentially
responsible parties (PRPs), and existing technology,  laws and regulations.  CSX
believes that it has made adequate  provision for its ultimate share of costs at
sites subject to joint and several  liability.  However,  the ultimate liability
for  remediation is difficult to determine with certainty  because of the number
of PRPs involved,  site-specific  cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs, the
degree of  contamination  by various  wastes,  the  scarcity and quality of data
related  to many of the  sites,  and/or the  speculative  nature of  remediation
costs.

Total  expenditures  associated  with  protecting the  environment  and remedial
environmental  cleanup and monitoring  efforts  amounted to $36 million in 1997.
This compares with $44 million in 1996 and $43 million in 1995. During 1998, the
company expects to incur remedial environmental expenditures in the range of $40
million  to $50  million.  The  majority  of  the  year-end  1997  environmental
liability is expected to be paid out over the next five to seven  years,  funded
by cash generated from  operations.  Future  environmental  obligations  are not
expected to have a material  impact on the results of  operations  or  financial
position of the company.


SAFETY REVIEW
On Oct. 16, 1997, the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) issued a report on a
joint review of safety on the CSXT rail system.  The review was  undertaken as a
cooperative  effort with CSXT and rail labor, and was conducted between July and
September 1997. CSXT and its labor representatives, in cooperation with the FRA,
are  actively  addressing  the  issues  cited in the  report  and  have  already
initiated  numerous  actions to ensure that all issues are fully resolved.  CSXT
has improved its safety record  dramatically over the past decade and, in recent
years,  has been among the safest Class I freight  railroads in the nation.  The
cooperative  effort  with rail labor and the FRA  reaffirms  the  commitment  to
safety by all parties  involved and helps ensure that safety will remain the top
priority as CSXT plans the integration of Conrail lines into its system.

LABOR
Discussions   with  labor   representatives   in  connection  with  the  Conrail
acquisition  are underway.  In January 1998,  the United  Transportation  Union,
which represents approximately a third of CSXT's unionized workforce,  announced
its support for the CSX/Norfolk Southern joint acquisition of Conrail.

Under CSXT's  latest  national  agreement  with the UTU and the  Brotherhood  of
Locomotive  Engineers,  study commissions were established to address key issues
such as basis of pay, quality of work life and productivity improvements through
work rule  modifications.  These commissions are meeting regularly and exploring
projects   that  could  lead  to  reaching   consensus  or  creating  a  set  of
recommendations covering these important matters. At the request of the parties,
the National Mediation Board is facilitating the discussions.



YEAR 2000 PLANNING AT CSX
CSX has determined it will need to modify or replace portions of its software so
its computer  systems will  function  properly with respect to dates in the year
2000 and beyond. The company also has initiated discussions with its significant
suppliers,  large  customers  and  financial  institutions  to ensure that those
parties have appropriate plans to remediate Year 2000 issues where their systems
interface  with CSX systems or otherwise  impact the company's  operations.  The
company is assessing the extent to which its operations  are  vulnerable  should
those organizations fail to remediate properly their computer systems.

The company's  comprehensive  Year 2000  initiative is centrally  managed by CSX
staff,  utilizing  outside  consultants as necessary.  The team's activities are
designed  to  ensure  that  there is no  adverse  effect  on CSX  core  business
operations  and that  transactions  with  customers,  suppliers,  and  financial
institutions  are fully  supported.  The  company  is well  under way with these
efforts,  which are  scheduled to be  completed  in mid 1999.  While the company
believes  its planning  efforts are adequate to address its Year 2000  concerns,
there can be no  guarantee  that the  systems  of other  companies  on which CSX
systems and  operations  rely will be  converted  on a timely basis and will not
have a material effect on the company.  The cost of the Year 2000 initiatives is
not expected to be material to the company's  results of operations or financial
position.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  Already a  leader in  technology,  CSX has  established a large
                 Year 2000 team to  prepare for the technology challenges of the
                 new millennium.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Estimates  and  forecasts  in the  Analysis  of  Operations  are  based  on many
estimates  and  assumptions  about complex  economic and operating  factors with
respect to industry  performance,  general business and economic  conditions and
other  matters  that  cannot be  predicted  accurately  and that are  subject to
contingencies  over  which the  company  has no  control.  Such  forward-looking
statements  involve known and unknown risks,  uncertainties  and other important
factors that could cause the actual results,  performance or achievements of the
company  to  differ   materially  from  any  future   results,   performance  or
achievements  expressed or implied by such  statements.  Certain of those risks,
uncertainties  and other  important  factors that could cause actual  results to
differ materially  include:  future economic  conditions in the markets in which
CSX and Conrail operate; financial market conditions;  inflation rates; changing
competition;  changes in the economic  regulatory  climate in the U.S.  railroad
industry;  the ability to eliminate duplicative  administrative  functions;  and
adverse   changes  in   applicable   laws,   regulations   or  rules   governing
environmental, tax or accounting matters. These forward-looking statements speak
only as of the date of this filing.  CSX disclaims any obligation or undertaking
to disseminate any updates or revisions to any such statement to reflect changes
in CSX's  expectations or any change in events,  conditions or  circumstances on
which any such statements are based.




                                  RAIL RESULTS


               CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT) turned in  another 
               strong performance in 1997.  Operating income was
               a record $1.23  billion, a 9% increase  over 1996
               and 16% over 1995, excluding 1995's restructuring
               charge.  The 1997  results were primarily  driven
               by  strength  in merchandise  traffic, as well as
               continued emphasis on cost reduction.



                             Rail Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                   '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                 $4,380   $4,625   $4,819   $4,909   $4,989



Gains in carloads  for most  merchandise  commodities  allowed  CSXT to generate
operating revenue of $4.99 billion, an increase of 2% over 1996 and more than 3%
over 1995.

CSXT enjoyed growth in practically all merchandise commodity groups during 1997.
Total  merchandise  traffic increased 4% over 1996, to 2.97 million carloads and
3% over 1995 levels.  This growth was largely  attributed to targeted  marketing
efforts and stronger general demand.

Demand for automobiles and light trucks remained strong in 1997,  resulting in a
5% increase in carloads  and a 4% increase in revenue over 1996.  Compared  with
1995 results,  CSXT's automotive business  experienced an increase of 8% in both
carloads and revenue in 1997.

Chemical  traffic  benefited  from  steady  demand for  plastics  as well as the
success of the railroad's  efforts to target truck traffic.  The railroad hauled
435,000  carloads  of  chemicals,  an increase of 6% over 1996 and 7% over 1995.
Corresponding  revenues were $747 million in 1997, $721 million in 1996 and $700
million in 1995.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]   Service   reliability   improvements   and    customer-focused
                  initiatives  combined  to produce  growth in  practically  all
                  commodity groups in 1997.


Shipments of coal were level with 1996 at 1.71 million  carloads,  compared with
1.68 million  carloads in 1995.  Coal revenue totaled $1.56 billion in 1997, vs.
$1.58 billion in 1996 and $1.52 billion in 1995. The 1997 results were adversely
affected by mild temperatures  across the eastern United States during the year,
as well as weak demand for U.S. export coal due to the strong dollar.

Cost control remained a priority.  Rail operating expense was $3.76 billion, vs.
$3.78  billion in 1996 and $3.76 billion in 1995,  excluding  the  restructuring
charge.  The company achieved record operating ratio of 75.4% in 1997,  compared
with 77% in 1996 and 77.9% in 1995, excluding the restructuring charge.


RAIL ASSETS
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 26, 1997
- --------------------------------------------
Freight Cars
    Box Cars                         15,131
    Open-Top Hoppers                 24,144
    Covered Hoppers                  18,356
    Gondolas                         25,279
    Other Cars                       14,568
- --------------------------------------------
        Total                        97,478
- --------------------------------------------
Locomotives                           2,781

Track
    Route Miles                      18,285
    Track Miles                      30,941
- --------------------------------------------





                           Rail Traffic by Commodity

                                  Carloads                       Revenue
                                 (Thousands)              (Millions of Dollars)
                          ---------------------      ---------------------------

                           1997    1996    1995        1997       1996      1995
                          ---------------------      ---------------------------
Automobiles                 387     367     357      $  543     $  520    $  503
Chemicals                   435     409     406         747        721       700
Minerals                    445     430     414         394        381       375
Food & Consumer             149     134     145         163        148       168
Agricultural Products       269     261     286         347        343       344
Metals                      316     277     301         314        290       291
Forest Products             471     466     479         499        499       488
Phosphates & Fertilizer     506     511     511         292        279       282
Coal                      1,714   1,711   1,684       1,560      1,584     1,530
                          ---------------------      ---------------------------
  Total                   4,692   4,566   4,583       4,859      4,765     4,681
                          ---------------------                                 
Other Revenue                                           130        144       138
                                                     ---------------------------
  Total Operating Revenue                            $4,989     $4,909    $4,819
                                                     ---------------------------


Lower operating expense was, to a large degree,  achieved through the efforts of
the railroad's Performance Improvement Teams (PITs), which removed approximately
$115 million in costs through  reductions of overtime and  absenteeism,  foreign
car-hire  days and  maintenance  costs.  Cost  reduction  was  furthered  by the
introduction of a new rail car distribution  optimization  system,  which in its
early stages yielded significant improvements in car utilization.

Customer service continued to improve in 1997 through an Operational  Excellence
initiative, begun in the first quarter of 1996 and implemented throughout CSXT's
54 terminals  during 1997.  This process  emphasizes  continuous  improvement in
service to customers and more precise operations within and among terminals. The
initiative is expected to achieve higher service levels at lower cost, providing
a  foundation  for  successful  competition  as CSXT  integrates  its portion of
Conrail.

Improved  asset  utilization  continues  to  enhance  CSXT's  ability to control
capital expenditures.  Capital expenditures in 1997 were $712 million,  compared
with $764 million and $765 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Of  the  1997  expenditures,  $100  million  was  for  projects  related  to the
integration  of  Conrail.  The  most  significant  spending  on  Conrail-related
projects was for  upgrading the B&O lines between  Chicago and  Cleveland.  When
completed  later in 1998 and linked with  Conrail's  route from Cleveland to New
York, this line will allow for high-speed,  high-density freight traffic between
Chicago and New York.

CSXT's 1997  capital  spending for its current rail system was mainly for track,
freight cars, locomotives, signals and bridges.

The railroad expects continued earnings growth in 1998. The company  anticipates
modest volume and revenue increases, as well as cost reductions similar to those
achieved in 1997.

1998 will be a year of intense  planning for the integration of Conrail.  People
at all levels of the  company  are  involved in this effort in order to ensure a
smooth  transition.  That  concentrated  planning,  along with CSXT's  continued
emphasis on performance improvement and service reliability, should position the
railroad to increase revenue and profitability in truck-competitive markets.


                             Rail Operating Expense
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95*     '96      '97
                   $3,634   $3,696   $3,951   $3,782   $3,760

               * Restructuring charge in 1995 was $196 million.



                           CONTAINER-SHIPPING RESULTS

               Continued  intense rate competition, due to over-
               capacity,    dominated   the   container-shipping   
               industry in 1997. In the face of this challenging
               environment,   Sea-Land   Service  was  able   to
               mitigate  partially revenue losses through higher
               volumes.  Additionally,  continued  cost  cutting
               helped  Sea-Land achieve a  respectable  level of
               profitability  while  many  other  carriers  were
               faltering.


                      Container-shipping Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                   $3,246   $3,492   $4,008   $4,051   $3,991


Sea-Land generated $278 million in operating income in 1997, vs. $318 million in
1996.  In 1995,  Sea-Land's  operating  income  was $238  million,  excluding  a
restructuring charge.

Volume in 1997  increased  more than 7% to 1.65 million  loads from 1.54 million
loads in 1996.  This  increase was driven by  continued  global trade growth and
market-share  gains in virtually all trade lanes.  In 1995,  volume totaled 1.44
million loads.

Due to lower  rates,  operating  revenue  decreased  to $3.99  billion vs. $4.05
billion in 1996 and $4.01  billion in 1995.  In 1997,  the  average  revenue per
container fell 8% due to over-capacity in the major trade lanes.

Sea-Land's  operating  expense  declined  by $20  million  from  1996,  to $3.71
billion,  despite  higher  volumes.  In 1995,  operating  expense  totaled $3.77
billion,  excluding that year's  restructuring  charge. The company continues to
improve its  per-unit  cost  structure  through its ongoing  emphasis on cutting
costs and improving productivity.

In 1997,  Sea-Land  accomplished  major cost  reductions  in the areas of inland
transportation,   procurement,  network  management  and  equipment  management.
Borrowing  from the  railroad's  Performance  Improvement  Team  (PIT)  process,
Sea-Land  managed to remove $217 million from its operating  expense  structure.
The company has set aggressive targets for 1998 to achieve similar results.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  Emphasis on cost control and productivity helped Sea-Land slash
                 millions  from its  operating  cost  structure  while  handling
                 greater volumes, thus maintaining profitability despite intense
                 rate competition.  Similarly aggresive targets are on track for
                 1998.

                         Container-shipping Load Volume
                                   (Thousands)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                    1,180    1,288    1,442    1,541    1,653



Implementation  of the global  alliance  with  Maersk  continued  in 1997.  This
alliance gives Sea-Land a substantial advantage over its competitors,  providing
a global network with excellent  frequency and scope of service.  In addition to
the  integrated  vessel  network,  the alliance  initiated a number of terminal,
equipment and information technology  rationalization efforts, which will be key
to further cost reduction.  These efforts included facility  rationalization  in
Baltimore,  Houston and Kobe,  Japan;  joint central  dispatch  pilot  programs;
chassis  rationalization  in North  America;  and  coordination  in the areas of
procurement and electronic data interchange  (EDI). The financial  benefits from
the alliance in 1997 were  approximately  $78 million.  Sea-Land is on target to
exceed this level of benefits in 1998.



[PHOTO]

In 1997, capital expenditures totaled $251 million, as the company completed its
fleet  enhancement  program and invested in  information  technology and rolling
stock. This amount compares with $307 million in 1996 and $269 million in 1995.


CONTAINER-SHIPPING ASSETS
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 26, 1997
- --------------------------------------------
Containers
    40- and 20-foot Dry Vans        182,514
    45-foot Dry Vans                 14,147
    Refrigerated Vans                20,457
    Other Specialized Equipment       2,972
- --------------------------------------------
        Total                       220,090
- --------------------------------------------
Chassis                              67,454
Container Ships                          98

Terminals
    Exclusive-Use                        14
    Preferential Berthing Rights         14
- --------------------------------------------


In 1998 trade growth is expected to continue,  albeit at a slightly  slower pace
than in recent  years.  The effect of the current  Asian  economic  difficulties
potentially could slow the double-digit  growth rates of the early 1990s to more
moderate levels.

Ongoing  rate  pressures  are  causing   realignment  and  consolidation  in the
container-shipping industry. With the exception of the Sea-Land/Maersk alliance,
every major carrier alliance experienced dramatic structural change during 1997.
This  trend is  expected  to  continue,  causing  further  customer  uncertainty
regarding  competitive  offerings.  Sea-Land's  stability  is  proving  to  be a
reassuring advantage to customers.  As a stable, global carrier with costs under
control, Sea-Land is well-positioned to compete effectively in 1998.


                                 BARGE RESULTS

               Severe weather and unfavorable operating conditions
               in the  first  half,  combined with rate  pressures
               later in the year, significantly affected  American
               Commercial  Lines' (ACL's) 1997 results.

The barge company reported operating income of $69 million,  vs. $112 million in
1996 and $106 million in 1995. The 1996 and 1997 results reflect the acquisition
of Conti-Carriers and Terminals Inc. in January 1996.

Total operating  revenue for 1997 was $618 million,  a decrease of 1% from 1996,
and a 12% increase  from 1995's  revenue of $554 million.  Operating  expense in
1997  totaled $549  million,  vs. $510 million in 1996 and $448 million in 1995.
The increase in expense was primarily due to  weather-induced  adverse operating
conditions,  expansion start-up expense in Argentina and increased production at
the company's  barge-building  subsidiary,  Jeffboat.  The year started with ice
problems on the Ohio and Mid-Mississippi  rivers,  followed by major flooding on
the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers.  These adverse operating  conditions forced the
company to operate smaller tows at lower speeds, resulting in lower productivity
and  corresponding  lost  volume.  Additionally,  operating  boats and barges in
unfavorable river conditions led to higher maintenance expense.


BARGE ASSETS
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 26, 1997
- --------------------------------------------
Towboats                                135

Barges
    Covered/Open-Top Hoppers          3,569
    Tankers                             249
- --------------------------------------------
        Total                         3,818
- --------------------------------------------
Marine Services
    River Terminals                      11
    Fleet Operations                     16
    Shipyards                             2
- --------------------------------------------

In 1997 rates  were  negatively  affected  by lower U.S.  grain  exports  due to
increased grain production by foreign  competitors.  Reduced  exports,  combined
with  a net  increase  in  barge  industry  capacity,  created  a  supply/demand
imbalance, leading to lower rates for grain and other dry commodities.

                             Barge Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                    $417     $449     $554     $622     $618

Transportation demand for non-grain commodities, such as steel and raw materials
for steel  minimills,  was  steady,  while  demand for  liquid  cargo  movements
remained  robust,  leading to a $4 million  increase in revenue for this sector.
Coal  tonnage  was up  slightly  from  1996,  but  revenue  was flat due to rate
pressures.

International growth continued as the Argentina-based  business (ACBL Hidrovias,
S.A.) expanded,  though earnings lagged due to start-up costs. ACBL Hidrovias is
well-positioned to profit from strong growth in 1998.

ACL  continued  its  focus on  safety  in 1997,  with a 33%  improvement  in its
incident rate.  ACBL, the company's  domestic  barge  subsidiary,  is the safest
barge line in the United States.  ACL's South American operations adopted ACBL's
safety practices, and ACBL de Venezuela completed the year injury free.

Capital additions at ACL, which included  additions to domestic marine equipment
and expansion in South America,  totaled $52 million in 1997. This compares with
$91 million in 1996 and $33 million in 1995.

ACL  anticipates  more  favorable  operating  results in 1998.  Steady demand is
expected,  but rate pressures  will likely persist as barge supply  continues to
exceed  demand in the short term.  Corn  production  is expected to be among the
highest  in U.S.  history;  and  record-level  soybean  exports  are  projected,
indicating strong demand.  Demand for the  transportation of liquid  commodities
should remain strong,  while demand for  transportation of coal, steel and other
commodities is expected to remain steady.


                               INTERMODAL RESULTS

               CSX Intermodal's (CSXI's) earnings in 1997 rose to
               attractive   levels   due   to   significant  cost 
               reductions   generated  by   the   unit's  network 
               redesign, as well  as modest  tightening of  truck 
               capacity.


                          Intermodal Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                    $599     $684     $707     $660     $669


Operating  income  totaled  $46  million  in  1997,  up 31% from  1996.  Revenue
increased  $9 million,  to $669  million,  while  volume  increased  5%, to 1.03
million  trailers and containers.  In 1995,  operating income was $30 million on
revenue of $707 million.

CSXI's network redesign,  implemented in the fourth quarter of 1996, resulted in
significant  productivity  gains. The company expanded train capacity in markets
with the greatest  growth and profit  potential.  Service  reliability  improved
significantly  as a result of the network  redesign  and  enhanced  coordination
between CSXI and CSXT. During the year, CSXI's overall performance was adversely
affected  by service  problems on the  western  section of its  transcontinental
network.

International  volume  rose 7% in 1997,  with  revenue up 10% over  1996.  While
domestic  volume  increased  4%,  revenue  decreased 1% due to rate pressure and
traffic  mix.  Productivity  initiatives  related to  equipment  management  and
terminal-trucking operations reduced operating costs by $8 million.


INTERMODAL ASSETS
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 26, 1997
- ---------------------------------------------
Equipment

    Domestic Containers                5,322
    Rail Trailers                      5,119

Facilities
    CSX Intermodal Terminals              33
    Motor Carrier Operations Terminals    23
- ---------------------------------------------


Capital  expenditures  totaled $32 million in 1997, $19 million of which related
to  preparation  for the  Conrail  integration,  vs. $24 million in 1996 and $57
million in 1995. During 1997, CSXI began expansion of its terminal facilities in
Atlanta,  New  York/New  Jersey,  and at its Chicago  gateway.  The company also
expanded its domestic container fleet by more than 30%.

In 1998,  CSXI will focus on expanding its business in key lanes and  developing
new markets to enhance the value of the CSXT core  franchise.  At the same time,
the company  will be  preparing  for the  integration  of Conrail  routes.  CSXI
anticipates  growth  patterns in 1998  similar to those  achieved  in 1997.  The
unit's  capital  plan  for  1998  includes  a  significant  investment  for  the
continuing  expansion of terminal  facilities in key markets in preparation  for
the Conrail integration.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  Trailers loaded for shipment  in Jacksonville now arrive in the
                 Northeast  faster and  more reliably due  to CSXI's service re-
                 design, undertaken in conjunction with CSXT.



                           CONTRACT LOGISTICS RESULTS

               Customized Transportation Inc. (CTI) continued its
               rapid  growth in  revenue and  operating income in 
               1997.   Revenue  rose  to $389 million,  23% above
               1996  and  62%  above  1995.     Operating  income
               increased to  $24 million,  40% above 1996 and 91%
               above 1995.


                      Contract Logistics Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                    $145     $182     $240     $316     $389


Much of CTI's  1997  results  were  attributable  to its  success  in  providing
logistics management services to the automotive,  tire, machinery,  electronics,
consumer durable,  and chemical  industries.  More than 65 million  transactions
were completed in 1997 with an error-free  rate of 99.9858%.  This commitment to
quality  earned nine  additional  ISO 9002  certifications  during the year.  In
addition,  CTI  continued to expand  overseas,  with the  management of contract
operations in South America and Europe. CTI expects to continue its rapid growth
in 1998.

[PHOTO]
[PHOTO CAPTION]  CTI is building  upon its U.S. automotive base  while expanding
                 into other industries and international markets. 


                              CONSOLIDATED OUTLOOK

               Though  uncertainty  about the  direction of  Asian
               economies makes economic forecasting more difficult
               than usual,  CSX expects  modest growth in the U.S.
               economy and  continued  expansion of  global  trade 
               during 1998.


We expect each of our  transportation  units to improve upon its 1997  financial
performance in 1998. The railroad should continue to improve its operating ratio
through  stringent  cost control and modest revenue  growth.  For our waterborne
businesses,  we expect improving supply-demand  fundamentals to result in a more
stable rate environment and improved profitability. Our intermodal and logistics
units should continue their recent trend of strong earnings growth.

Costs  associated with the Conrail  transaction and integration will affect 1998
consolidated  results,  as CSX makes  investments  in capital  improvements  and
information  technology  to  prepare  for the  Conrail  integration.  We  expect
regulatory  approval  in  mid-1998  and  are  determined  to  execute  a  smooth
integration of the Conrail assets. The steps we are taking will strengthen CSX's
position by expanding our market reach.




                             FINANCIAL INFORMATION

CONTENTS
29 Consolidated Statement of Earnings 
30 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
31 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
32 Consolidated  Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity  
33 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
51 Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors 








                               Consolidated Statement of Earnings

(Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






                            Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

(Millions of Dollars)



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






                       Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

(Millions of Dollars)



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






                   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity

(Millions of Dollars)



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


NOTE 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.

Nature of Operations
CSX Corporation (CSX) is a global freight  transportation company with principal
business  units  providing  rail,  container-shipping,  intermodal,  barging and
contract  logistics  services.   Rail   transportation   services  are  provided
principally  throughout the eastern United States and account for nearly half of
the company's  operating  revenue,  with coal,  bulk  products and  manufactured
products  each  contributing  a  relatively  equal share of rail  revenue.  Coal
shipments    primarily    supply   domestic    utility   and   export   markets.
Container-shipping  services are provided in the United  States and more than 80
countries  and  territories  throughout  the  world  and  account  for more than
one-third of the company's operating revenue.  Intermodal,  barging and contract
logistics  services  are  provided  principally  within  the  United  States and
together account for the company's remaining operating revenue.


Principles of Consolidation
The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  include  CSX  and  its  majority-owned
subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated.  Investments in companies that are not majority-owned are carried at
either cost or equity, depending on the extent of control.


Fiscal Year
The company's fiscal  reporting period ends on the last Friday in December.  The
financial  statements  presented are for the fiscal periods ended Dec. 26, 1997,
Dec. 27, 1996,  and Dec.  29,  1995.  Each fiscal year  consists of four 13-week
quarters.


Common Stock Split
The company distributed a 2-for-1 common stock split to shareholders in December
1995.  In the  accompanying  Consolidated  Statement  of  Earnings  and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements,  all references to shares of common stock and
per share amounts for periods prior to the stock split have been restated.


Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments
Cash in  excess  of  current  operating  requirements  is  invested  in  various
short-term  instruments  carried at cost that approximates  market value.  Those
short-term  investments having a maturity of three months or less at the date of
acquisition are classified as cash  equivalents.  Cash and cash  equivalents are
net of outstanding  checks that are funded daily from cash receipts and maturing
short-term investments.


Accounts Receivable
The  company has sold,  directly  and through  Trade  Receivables  Participation
Certificates (Certificates), ownership interests in designated pools of accounts
receivable originated by CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT), its rail unit.

At Dec. 26, 1997, the company had $200 million of Certificates  outstanding,  at
5.05%, due September 1998. The Certificates  represent  undivided interests in a
master trust holding an ownership  interest in a revolving  pool of rail freight
accounts  receivable.  The Certificates  were  collateralized by $249 million of
accounts  receivable  held in the master  trust.  The company has the ability to
issue  $50  million  in  additional   Certificates  through  September  1998  at
prevailing market terms.

The company also has a revolving agreement with a financial  institution to sell
with recourse on a monthly basis an undivided  percentage  ownership interest in
designated  pools of  freight  and  other  accounts  receivable.  The  agreement
provides for the sale of up to $200 million in accounts  receivable  and expires
in October 1998.

The company  has  retained  the  responsibility  for  servicing  and  collecting
accounts  receivable held in trust or sold. At Dec. 26, 1997, and Dec. 27, 1996,
accounts receivable have been reduced by $372 million, representing Certificates
and  accounts   receivable   sold.  The  net  costs  associated  with  sales  of
Certificates  and receivables  were $29 million,  $30 million and $32 million in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

The company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the expected
collectibility of accounts receivable, including receivables collateralizing the
Certificates  and  receivables  sold.  Allowances  for doubtful  accounts of $86
million and $97 million have been applied as a reduction of accounts  receivable
at Dec. 26, 1997, and Dec. 27, 1996, respectively.


Materials and Supplies
Materials and supplies  consist  primarily of fuel and items for  maintenance of
property and equipment, and are carried at average cost.


Properties
Main line  track on the rail  system is  depreciated  on a group  basis  using a
unit-of-property  method.  All other  property and equipment is depreciated on a
straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of three to 50 years.






Regulations  enforced  by the  Surface  Transportation  Board  (STB) of the U.S.
Department of Transportation require periodic formal studies of ultimate service
lives for all railroad assets.  Resulting  service life estimates are subject to
review  and  approval  by the STB.  Significant  premature  retirements  for all
properties, which would include major casualty losses,  abandonments,  sales and
obsolescence  of assets,  are  recorded  as gains or losses at the time of their
occurrence.  Expenditures  that  significantly  increase  asset values or extend
useful lives are capitalized. Repair and maintenance expenditures are charged to
operating expense when the work is performed. All properties are stated at cost,
less an allowance for accumulated depreciation.

Properties  and other  long-lived  assets are reviewed for  impairment  whenever
events or business  conditions  indicate the carrying  amount of such assets may
not be fully  recoverable.  Initial  assessments of recoverability  are based on
estimates of  undiscounted  future net cash flows  associated with an asset or a
group of assets.  Where  impairment is  indicated,  the assets are evaluated for
sale or other  disposition,  and their carrying  amount is reduced to fair value
based on discounted net cash flows or other estimates of fair value.


Revenue Recognition
Transportation  revenue is  recognized  proportionately  as shipments  move from
origin to destination.


Environmental Costs
Environmental  costs relating to current  operations are expensed or capitalized
as  appropriate.  Expenditures  relating to  remediating  an existing  condition
caused by past  operations,  and that do not  contribute  to  current  or future
revenue   generation,   are  expensed.   Liabilities  are  recorded  when  CSX's
responsibility  for environmental  remedial efforts is deemed probable,  and the
costs can be  reasonably  estimated.  Generally,  the  timing of these  accruals
coincides with the completion of a feasibility study or the company's commitment
to a formal plan of action.


Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments may be used from time to time by the company in
the management of its interest,  foreign currency and commodity  exposures,  and
are  accounted for on an accrual  basis.  Income and expense are recorded in the
same category as that of the  underlying  asset or  liability.  Gains and losses
related to hedges of existing  assets or liabilities are deferred and recognized
over the expected  remaining  life of the related asset or liability.  Gains and
losses  related to hedges of  anticipated  transactions  also are  deferred  and
recognized in income in the same period as the hedged transaction. There were no
significant derivative financial instruments outstanding at Dec. 26, 1997.


Stock-Based Compensation
The company records expense for stock-based  compensation in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting  Principles  Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees"  and related  Interpretations.  Disclosures  required
with respect to the alternative fair value  measurement and recognition  methods
prescribed  by Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (FASB)  Statement No. 123
"Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation"  are  presented in Note 12 -- Stock
Plans.


Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting  principles  requires that management make estimates in reporting the
amounts of certain revenues and expenses for each fiscal year and certain assets
and  liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.  Actual results may differ from
those estimates.


Prior-Year Data
Certain   prior-year  data  have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to  the  1997
presentation.


Accounting Pronouncements
The FASB has issued  Statement  No. 130  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income"  and
Statement  No. 131  "Disclosures  about  Segments of an  Enterprise  and Related
Information,"  both of which the company will adopt in 1998.  Statement  No. 130
establishes  standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components in financial  statements.  Comprehensive  income generally represents
all changes in  shareholders'  equity except those resulting from investments by
or  distributions  to  shareholders.  With the exception of net  earnings,  such
changes are  generally  not  significant  to the  company;  and the  adoption of
Statement No. 130,  including the required  comparative  presentation  for prior
periods, is not expected to have a material impact on its financial  statements.
Statement No. 131 requires that a  publicly held  company  report  financial and
descriptive  information  about its operating  segments in financial  statements
issued to  shareholders  for  interim and annual  periods.  The  Statement  also
requires   additional   disclosures  with  respect  to  products  and  services,
geographic  areas  of  operation  and  major  customers.  The  company  operates
diversified  freight  transportation  businesses and has  historically  provided
detailed  operating  segment  and other  information  in its  communications  to
shareholders;  however, such information has not typically been presented in the
consolidated financial statements and related notes.




NOTE 2.  JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL.

During the second quarter of 1997, CSX and Norfolk Southern Corporation (Norfolk
Southern)  completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc. (Conrail) through a jointly
owned entity pursuant to an agreement dated April 8, 1997. The joint acquisition
was the outcome of negotiations that followed separate, competing initiatives by
CSX and Norfolk Southern to acquire Conrail.  These initiatives began in October
1996 when CSX and Conrail  entered  into an  agreement to combine in a strategic
merger  transaction  in which  Conrail  shareholders  would receive cash and CSX
common stock for their  shares.  Norfolk  Southern  challenged  the  CSX/Conrail
merger agreement and made an all-cash  competing offer for Conrail.  As a result
of these  initiatives,  CSX and Norfolk Southern  completed separate cash tender
offers for 19.9% and 9.9%, respectively, of Conrail's outstanding shares in late
1996 and early 1997. Subsequent developments  surrounding the efforts of CSX and
Norfolk  Southern to acquire Conrail led to discussions  that produced the joint
acquisition agreement.

Completion of the Conrail  acquisition was achieved through a joint tender offer
and subsequent merger in which all outstanding  Conrail shares not already owned
by the company and Norfolk  Southern were  acquired for cash, or were  converted
into the right to receive  cash,  of $115 per share.  Under the  agreement,  CSX
contributed  approximately $4.1 billion,  in the form of cash and Conrail shares
previously  acquired,  for  a  42%  investment  in  Conrail.   Norfolk  Southern
contributed  approximately  $5.7  billion,  also in the form of cash and Conrail
shares previously acquired,  for a 58% investment in Conrail. The Conrail shares
acquired by CSX and Norfolk  Southern have been placed in a voting trust pending
approval of the  transaction by the STB. CSX financed the acquisition of its 42%
investment in Conrail by issuing a  combination  of  fixed-rate  debentures  and
commercial paper.

In June  1997,  CSX  and  Norfolk  Southern  completed  supplemental  agreements
governing the legal  structure of the  transaction and operations of the Conrail
rail system  subsequent  to STB  approval.  The terms of these  agreements,  the
operating plans of the respective companies, and the benefits expected to result
from combining the respective rail systems are  incorporated in a joint railroad
control  application  that was filed with the STB on June 23,  1997.  The STB is
expected  to issue a final  decision  on the  application  in July  1998.  It is
anticipated  that  operational  integration of the CSX and Conrail  systems will
take  place  upon  completion  of  labor  agreements  with  Conrail's   contract
workforce, currently expected to be in late 1998.

The  completion  of the  joint  tender  offer  and  subsequent  merger,  and the
resulting  increase in CSX's  ownership  interest in Conrail  from 19.9% to 42%,
required a change from the cost method to the equity  method of  accounting  for
the  investment  during the second  quarter  of 1997.  The change in  accounting
method included adjustments  retroactive to the date of CSX's initial investment
in Conrail in November  1996.  The net amount of these  retroactive  adjustments
applicable  to fiscal year 1996 was not  material.  The company will continue to
use the equity  method of  accounting  while the Conrail  shares are held in the
voting  trust.  Under  this  method,  the  company  recognizes  income  from its
proportionate  share of Conrail's net income and expense for amortization of its
purchase price in excess of its proportionate share of Conrail's net book value.
For the fiscal year ended Dec. 26, 1997,  equity in Conrail's net income totaled
$144 million, and amortization of the excess purchase price totaled $42 million.

Summary  financial  information  for Conrail for its fiscal years ended Dec. 31,
1997, 1996 and 1995 is as follows:

                                                For the Year Ended Dec. 31,
                                              --------------------------------
                                                1997         1996        1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income Statement Information:
    Revenues                                  $3,765       $3,714      $3,686
    Income from Operations                       322          601         456
    Net Income                                     7          342         264
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            As of Dec. 31,
                                                         --------------------
                                                           1997         1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance Sheet Information:
    Current Assets                                       $  954       $1,117
    Property and Equipment and Other Assets               7,530        7,285
    Total Assets                                          8,484        8,402
    Current Liabilities                                   1,208        1,092
    Long-Term Debt                                        1,732        1,876
    Total Liabilities                                     5,319        5,295
    Stockholders' Equity                                  3,165        3,107
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------



Conrail's  operating results for 1997 include certain charges that the acquiring
companies are required to record as liabilities established in connection with a
purchase business  combination under generally accepted  accounting  principles.
These charges reflect obligations for separation-related compensation to certain
Conrail   executives  and  include  vesting  of  benefits  under  certain  stock
compensation  plans and the  termination of Conrail's  Employee Stock  Ownership
Plan.  The charges,  which  totaled $363  million on an  after-tax  basis,  were
excluded from the net income of Conrail in determining the  proportionate  share
of such income  recorded by CSX.  Excluding  these  separation-related  charges,
Conrail's  net income  would have been $370  million for the year ended Dec. 31,
1997.

Conrail's  1997  operating  results  also  include  one-time  expenses for other
acquisition-related  costs  and  a  cumulative  income  tax  adjustment.  On  an
after-tax  basis, the  acquisition-related  expenses totaled $72 million for the
year.  The  adjustment  to income tax  expense,  $22  million,  was  recorded to
increase  deferred  income  taxes as a result  of a change  in a state tax rate.
These  expenses  were included in the net income of Conrail in  determining  the
proportionate share of such income recorded by CSX.

CSX is amortizing the  difference  between its purchase price for the investment
in Conrail and its  proportionate  share of Conrail's net assets.  A substantial
portion of the excess  purchase price is expected to be allocated to reflect the
fair value of Conrail's  property and equipment.  The provision for amortization
of the excess  purchase price has been based upon  preliminary  estimates of the
fair values of such  property and  equipment  and  estimates of their  remaining
useful  lives,  as well as  estimates  of the fair  values of other  assets  and
liabilities of Conrail.

The combined effect of equity earnings, excess purchase price amortization,  net
interest on debt issued to acquire the Conrail  investment,  and other  expenses
related to the transaction  reduced CSX's net earnings for the fiscal year ended
Dec. 26, 1997, by $97  million, 43 cents per share on a diluted  basis.  The net
effect of the  investment  in Conrail on CSX's net  earnings for the fiscal year
ended Dec. 27, 1996, was not significant. The company's method of accounting for
the  investment  subsequent  to the STB decision and  dissolution  of the voting
trust  will  depend  upon the  final  terms of the joint  ownership  arrangement
approved by the STB.


NOTE 3. 1995 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE.

In 1995,  the company  recorded a $257 million  pretax  restructuring  charge to
recognize the estimated  costs of specific  initiatives  at CSXT and at Sea-Land
Service Inc. (Sea-Land),  its  container-shipping  unit. The charge reduced 1995
net earnings by $160 million, 76 cents per share.

CSXT Initiative
CSXT  recorded its $196 million  portion of the pretax  restructuring  charge to
recognize  the  costs  associated  with a  contractual  agreement  with a  major
telecommunications  vendor to replace,  manage and  technologically  enhance its
existing  private  telecommunications  network.  The  initiative  resulted  in a
write-down  of assets  rendered  technologically  obsolete  and a provision  for
separation and labor protection payments to affected employees.

The  agreement,  which  originally  was to expire in May 2005,  provided for the
vendor  to  supply  and  manage  new  technology  to  replace  CSXT's   existing
telecommunications  system,  thereby rendering it commercially  obsolete.  These
assets,  comprising  CSXT's  internal  companywide   telecommunications  network
including existing  microwave and fiber optic  communications  systems,  have no
alternative use and their net realizable value is not  significant.  As a result
of the agreement, the net book value of the assets to be replaced was reduced by
$163 million.

During 1996, CSXT and the vendor amended the agreement to change the termination
date to June 30,  1998,  to  increase  the  payments  required  over the revised
service  period,  and to relieve the  vendor's  obligations  to replace  certain
technology.  CSXT is in the final stages of  negotiating  a multiyear  agreement
with  a  successor   telecommunications  vendor  and  expects  to  have  service
arrangements with that vendor in place prior to June 30, 1998.


Sea-Land Initiatives
The restructuring  initiatives at Sea-Land  represented $61 million of the total
charge and included its global  integration  program and the  reflagging of five
U.S.-flag  vessels to the registry of the Marshall  Islands in  accordance  with
approval from the Maritime Administration. Sea-Land's global integration program
resulted in the  consolidation of worldwide  senior  management  functions,  the
relocation of the corporate headquarters to Charlotte, N.C., and the integration
of information technologies. The vessel reflagging initiative primarily involves
crew separations on the five vessels.





NOTE 3. 1995 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE (CONTINUED).

Summary

The 1995 restructuring  charge and related activity through Dec. 26, 1997, is as
follows:




The total  provision for separation  and labor  protection  payments  relates to
approximately  800  affected  employees  and was  based on  existing  collective
bargaining  agreements with members of clerical,  electrical,  and signal crafts
and  seafarer  trades.  Through  Dec.  26,  1997,   approximately  560  employee
separations  have been  finalized.  The company  expects the remaining  affected
employees to be impacted within the next four years.


NOTE 4. OPERATING EXPENSE.

                                                  1997        1996        1995
                                                --------------------------------
Labor and Fringe Benefits                       $3,226       $3,158      $3,133
Materials, Supplies and Other                    2,511        2,509       2,621
Building and Equipment Rent                      1,111        1,143       1,134
Inland Transportation                            1,003          996         970
Depreciation                                       620          611         588
Fuel                                               567          574         473
Miscellaneous                                       --           23           2
Restructuring Charge                                --           --         257
                                                --------------------------------
    Total                                       $9,038       $9,014      $9,178
                                                --------------------------------
Selling, General and Administrative 
 Expense Included in Above Items                $1,106       $1,210      $1,249
                                                --------------------------------


NOTE 5. OTHER INCOME.



(a) Gross revenue from real estate and resort operations was $206 million,  $186
    million and $178 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(b) In  December  1995,  the company  recognized  a net  investment  gain of $77
    million on the  issuance of an equity  interest in a Sea-Land  terminal  and
    related operations in Asia and the  write-down of various  investments.  The
    The equity interest portion of the transaction resulted in  proceeds of $105
    million and a pretax  gain of $93 million, $61 million  after-tax,  29 cents
    per share.  Sea-Land's  interest in the terminal operations was reduced from
    approximately 67% to 57%.





NOTE 6. INCOME TAXES.

Earnings from domestic and foreign operations and related income tax expense are
as follows:



Income tax  expense  reconciled  to the tax  computed at  statutory  rates is as
follows:




The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities include:






NOTE 6. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED).
In addition to the annual provision for deferred income tax expense,  the change
in the year-end net deferred income tax liability  balances  included the income
tax effect of the changes in the minimum pension liability in 1997 and 1996.

The company has not recorded  domestic  deferred or  additional  foreign  income
taxes  applicable to  undistributed  earnings of foreign  subsidiaries  that are
considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Such earnings amounted to $290 million
and $279  million at Dec.  26, 1997,  and Dec.  27,  1996,  respectively.  These
amounts may become  taxable upon their  remittance as dividends or upon the sale
or liquidation of these foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine
the amount of net  additional  income  tax that may be payable if such  earnings
were repatriated.

The company files a consolidated  federal income tax return,  which includes its
principal domestic subsidiaries.  Examinations of the federal income tax returns
of CSX have been  completed  through  1990.  Returns for 1991  through  1993 are
currently under  examination.  Management  believes adequate  provision has been
made for any adjustments that might be assessed.


NOTE 7. PROPERTIES.



NOTE 8. CASUALTY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER RESERVES.

Activity related to casualty, environmental and other reserves is as follows:


(a)Balances  include current portions of casualty and other,  environmental  and
   separation  reserves,  respectively,  of $245  million,  $20  million and $33
   million at Dec. 26, 1997;  $234 million,  $20 million and $52 million at Dec.
   27, 1996; and $241 million, $20 million and $37 million at Dec. 29, 1995.

(b)Casualty  reserves  are  estimated  based  upon  the  first  reporting  of an
   accident or personal  injury to an employee.  Liabilities  for  accidents are
   based upon field reports and liabilities for personal injuries are based upon
   the type  and  severity  of the  injury  and the use of  current  trends  and
   historical data.

(c)Separation  liabilities  include $300 million at Dec. 26, 1997,  $318 million
   at Dec. 27, 1996, and $344 million at Dec. 29, 1995,  related to productivity
   charges  recorded  in 1991 and 1992 to  provide  for the  estimated  costs of
   implementing  work-force  reductions,  improvements in productivity and other
   cost reductions at the company's major  transportation  units.  The remaining
   liabilities are expected to be paid out over the next 20 to 25 years.



NOTE 9. DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS.
                                       Average Interest
                                          Rates at         Dec. 26,    Dec. 27,
Type and Maturity Dates                 Dec. 26, 1997        1997        1996
                                       ----------------------------------------
Commercial Paper                             6%             $2,000      $2,300
Notes Payable (1999-2021)                    8%                479         498
Debentures (2000-2032)                       8%              3,145         650
Equipment Obligations (1998-2011)            7%                784         739
Mortgage Bonds (1998-2003)                   3%                 75          76
Other Obligations, including 
Capital Leases (1998-2021)                   7%                162         169
                                       ----------------------------------------
    Total                                    7%              6,645       4,432
                                       ----------------                        
Less Debt Due Within One Year                                  229         101
                                                           --------------------
    Total Long-Term Debt                                    $6,416      $4,331
                                                           --------------------


To provide  financing  for a portion of the  Conrail  acquisition,  the  company
issued $2.5 billion principal amount of fixed rate debentures  through a private
offering in May 1997.  The  debentures  were issued in  multiple  tranches  with
maturities  ranging from 2002 to 2032 and interest  rates  ranging from 6.95% to
8.30%.  In  October  1997,  the  company  completed  an  offer to  exchange  the
privately placed   debentures   for   new   freely tradeable   debentures   with
substantially identical terms.

In  November  1996,  the company had  entered  into a $4.8  billion  bank credit
agreement  to provide  financing  for the Conrail  acquisition  and meet general
working  capital needs.  Upon issuance of the debentures  described  above,  the
agreement  was  amended  and the  maximum  borrowing  amount was reduced to $2.5
billion.  Under  the  agreement,  the  company  may  borrow  directly  from  the
participating  banks or utilize the credit  facility to support the  issuance of
commercial  paper.  Direct  borrowings  from  the  participating  banks  can  be
obtained,  at the company's  option,  under a competitive  bid process among the
banks or under a revolving credit arrangement with interest either at LIBOR plus
a margin determined by the company's credit rating or at an alternate base rate,
as defined in the agreement.  At Dec. 26, 1997, the company had commercial paper
borrowings related to the credit facility of $2.126 billion, of which $2 billion
was classified as long-term debt based on the company's ability and intention to
maintain this debt  outstanding  for more than one year.  At Dec. 27, 1996,  the
company had commercial paper borrowings related to the credit facility of $2.635
billion,  of which $2.3 billion was  classified as long-term  debt.  The company
pays annual fees to the participating  banks that may range from .06% to .15% of
the total  commitment,  depending upon its credit rating.  The credit agreement,
which  expires  in  November   2001,   also  includes   certain   covenants  and
restrictions,   such  as   limitations   on  debt  as  a  percentage   of  total
capitalization and restrictions on the sale or disposition of certain assets.

Commercial  paper  classified  as  short-term  debt was $126 million at Dec. 26,
1997, and $335 million at Dec. 27, 1996. The weighted-average  interest rate for
the  short-term  commercial  paper  outstanding  at year-end was 6% for 1997 and
1996.

In September  1992,  the company filed a shelf  registration  statement with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  to provide for the issuance of up to $450
million in senior  debt  securities,  warrants to purchase  debt  securities  or
currency  warrants.  This shelf  registration  included  a  combined  prospectus
covering  amounts  remaining  to be issued as debt  securities  under a previous
shelf registration. As of Dec. 26, 1997, an aggregate of $250 million of debt is
available for issuance  under the  company's  shelf  registration  statement and
combined prospectus.

Excluding long-term  commercial paper, the company has long-term debt maturities
for 1998 through 2002 aggregating $229 million,  $94 million,  $325 million, $63
million and $561 million,  respectively.  A portion of the  company's  rail unit
properties  are pledged as security  for various  rail-related,  long-term  debt
issues.




NOTE 10. COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK.
The  company  has a single  class of common  stock,  $1 par value,  of which 300
million shares are authorized. Each share is entitled to one vote in all matters
requiring a vote. In December 1995,  shareholders  received one additional share
of common stock for each share held,  pursuant to a 2-for-1 stock split approved
by the  board  of  directors.  At  Dec.  26,  1997,  common  shares  issued  and
outstanding totaled 218,309,911.


The company also has total authorized  preferred stock of 25 million shares,  of
which 250,000 shares of Series A have been reserved for issuance,  and 3 million
shares of Series B have been reserved for issuance under the Shareholder  Rights
Plan discussed  below. All preferred shares rank senior to common shares both as
to dividends and liquidation preference. No preferred shares were outstanding at
Dec. 26, 1997.

Pursuant to a Shareholder  Rights Plan adopted by the board of directors in 1988
and amended in 1990, each  outstanding  share of common stock also evidences one
preferred share purchase right  ("right").  Each right entitles  shareholders of
record to purchase  from the company,  until the earlier of June 8, 1998, or the
redemption  of the rights,  one  one-hundredth  of a share of Series B preferred
stock at an exercise  price of $100,  subject to certain  adjustments  or, under
certain  circumstances,  to obtain additional shares of common stock in exchange
for the rights.  The rights are not exercisable or  transferable  apart from the
related  common  shares  until  the  earlier  of 10 days  following  the  public
announcement  that a person or  affiliated  group has  acquired or obtained  the
right to acquire 20% or more of the company's  outstanding  common stock;  or 10
days following the commencement or announcement of an intention to make a tender
offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the ownership
by a person or group of 20% or more of the outstanding  common stock.  The board
of directors  may redeem the rights at a price of one cent per right at any time
prior to the  acquisition by a person or group of 20% or more of the outstanding
common stock.


NOTE 11. EARNINGS PER SHARE.
The company  adopted FASB  Statement  No. 128 "Earnings per Share" in the fourth
quarter of 1997.  In  accordance  with the  provisions  of this  statement,  the
following  table sets forth the  computation  of earnings per share and earnings
per share, assuming dilution.



                                                     1997       1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Numerator:
    Net Earnings                                      $799       $855       $618

Denominator (thousands):
    Denominator for earnings per share -
     average common shares outstanding             217,796    213,633    210,270
    Effect of Potentially Dilutive
     Securities:
         Stock Options                               2,598      2,192      1,598
         Performance Share Awards and 
          other stock awards                           398        381        460
                                                   -----------------------------
         Potentially dilutive common shares          2,996      2,573      2,058
                                                   -----------------------------
    Denominator for earnings per share, assuming
     dilution -- average diluted common shares
     outstanding                                   220,792    216,206    212,328
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per share                                   $3.67      $4.00      $2.94
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per share, assuming dilution                $3.62      $3.96      $2.91
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Note 12  provides  additional  disclosures  regarding  employee  stock  options,
Performance Share Awards, and other stock awards.

Options  to  purchase  1,955,000  shares  of  common  stock at $57 per share and
1,977,520 shares at $51.44 per share were  outstanding  during late 1997 and the
second half of 1996,  respectively,  but were not included in the computation of
earnings per share,  assuming dilution.  The exercise price of these options was
greater  than the average  market price of the common  shares and,  accordingly,
their effect is antidilutive to earnings per share.




NOTE 12. STOCK PLANS.
The company maintains several stock plans designed to encourage ownership of its
stock and  provide  incentives  for  employees  to  contribute  to its  success.
Compensation  expense for stock-based  awards under these plans is determined by
the awards'  intrinsic  value  accounted for under the principles of APB Opinion
No.  25  and  related  Interpretations.   Compensation  expense  recognized  for
stock-based  awards was $66 million,  $36 million and $50 million in 1997,  1996
and 1995, respectively. Had compensation expense been determined based upon fair
values at the date of grant for awards  under these plans,  consistent  with the
methods of FASB  Statement  No. 123, the company's net earnings and earnings per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                                 1997       1996       1995
                                                ----------------------------
Net Earnings - As Reported                      $ 799      $ 855      $ 618
             - Pro Forma                        $ 791      $ 832      $ 610
                                                ----------------------------
Earnings Per Share - As Reported                $3.67      $4.00      $2.94
                   - Pro Forma                  $3.63      $3.90      $2.90
                                                ----------------------------
Earnings Per Share, Assuming Dilution
  - As Reported                                 $3.62      $3.96      $2.91
  - Pro Forma                                   $3.58      $3.85      $2.87
                                                ----------------------------


The pro forma fair value method of  accounting  was applied only to  stock-based
awards granted after Dec. 30, 1994. Because all stock-based compensation expense
for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was not restated and because  stock-based awards granted
may vary from year to year, the resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be
representative of that to be expected in future years.


Stock Purchase and Loan Plan
The Stock  Purchase and Loan Plan  provides for the purchase of common stock and
related  rights by  eligible  officers  and key  employees  of the  company  and
entitles  them to obtain loans with respect to the shares  purchased.  The Plan,
which  originated in 1991,  is intended to further the  long-term  stability and
financial success of the company by providing a method for eligible employees to
increase  significantly their ownership of common stock.  Amendments to the Plan
were approved by the company's  shareholders and implemented in 1996,  providing
for  continuation  of the Plan through  February 2006, and increasing the common
stock reserved for issuance from 4.4 million to 9 million shares.

At the  inception of the revised Plan in August 1996,  participants  who entered
the original Plan in 1991 or 1992 either withdrew shares from the Plan,  applied
all or part of their equity in shares  purchased in the original  Plan as a down
payment to  acquire  additional  shares,  or  extended  their  participation  at
existing levels for up to one year. In addition,  shares were offered to certain
employees  who were not  previously  eligible  to  participate  in the Plan.  In
connection with the Plan amendments,  from Aug. 1, 1996,  through Dec. 27, 1996,
72,497 shares were withdrawn from the Plan,  2,630,727 shares were exchanged and
canceled,  and  7,651,970  new shares  were sold to  participants  at an average
market price of $47.52 per share.  In  consideration  for the shares  purchased,
participants  have  provided down payments of not less than 5% nor more than 25%
of the purchase  price in the form of cash,  recourse  notes or equity earned in
the original Plan. The remaining  purchase price is in the form of  non-recourse
loans secured by the shares issued.

All non-recourse loans under the Plan are subject to certain adjustments after a
vesting  period based upon targeted  increases in the market price of CSX common
stock.  At Dec. 26, 1997,  certain of the market price  thresholds had been met,
resulting in forgiveness of interest (net of dividends applied to interest) plus
a portion of the principal balances of the notes.



NOTE 12. STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED).

At Dec.  26,  1997,  there  were  170  participants  in the  Plan.  Transactions
involving the Plan are as follows:

                                                          Shares      Average
                                                          (000's)    Price(a)
                                                        ----------------------
Outstanding at Dec. 29, 1995                              3,423       $18.64
    Issued                                                7,652       $47.52
    Exchanged, Canceled or Withdrawn                     (2,964)      $18.73
                                                        ----------------------
Outstanding at Dec. 27, 1996                              8,111       $46.26
                                                        ----------------------
    Issued                                                  138       $59.43
    Exchanged, Canceled or Withdrawn                       (581)      $22.48
                                                        ----------------------
Outstanding at Dec. 26, 1997                              7,668       $45.74
                                                        ----------------------

(a) Represents average cost to participants, net of cumulative note forgiveness.


                                                  1997         1996        1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Down Payment (Recourse) Loans Outstanding         $  7         $  7        $  4
Purchase (Non-Recourse) Loans Outstanding         $270         $296        $ 60
Weighted-Average Interest Rate                    6.59%        6.64%       7.75%
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The weighted-average fair value benefit to participants for a share issued under
the Stock  Purchase  and Loan Plan was $19.82 in 1997 and $15.65 in 1996.  These
values were  estimated as of the dates of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option
pricing model with the following  assumptions  for 1997 and 1996,  respectively:
risk-free  interest  rates of 6.1% and 6.5%;  dividend  yields of 2.2% and 2.4%;
volatility factors of 22.2% and 21.5%.  Expected lives of six years were used in
both 1997 and 1996.


1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan
The CSX Corporation 1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan provides for awards in
the form of stock options,  Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs),  Performance Share
Awards  (PSAs) and  Incentive  Compensation  Program  shares  (ICPs) to eligible
officers and  employees.  Awards  granted  under the Plan are  determined by the
board of directors based on the financial performance of the company.

At Dec. 26, 1997,  there were 475 current or former  employees with  outstanding
grants under the Plan. A total of 18,132,238  shares were reserved for issuance,
of which 428,638 were available for new grants (5,396,274 at Dec. 27, 1996). The
remaining shares are assigned to outstanding stock options, SARs and PSAs.

The majority of stock  options have been granted with 10-year  terms and vest at
the end of one year of  continued  employment.  The  exercise  price for options
granted equals the market price of the underlying  stock on the date of grant. A
summary of the company's stock option activity,  and related information for the
fiscal years ended Dec. 26, 1997, Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995, follows:





The following table summarizes  information  about stock options  outstanding at
Dec. 26, 1997:




The fair value of options granted in 1997, 1996 and 1995 was estimated as of the
dates of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model with the following
weighted-average   assumptions   used  for  grants  in  1997,   1996  and  1995,
respectively:  risk-free  interest  rates of 6.5%,  6.3%  and  6.8%;  volatility
factors  of 21%,  22% and 23%;  dividend  yields  of 2.2%,  2.4% and  2.4%;  and
expected lives of 4.8 years, 6 years and 6 years.

The value of PSAs is  contingent on the  achievement  of  performance  goals and
completion  of certain  continuing  employment  requirements  over a  three-year
period.  Each PSA earned  will equal the fair  market  value of one share of CSX
common  stock on the date of payment.  At Dec. 26,  1997,  there were  1,269,200
shares  reserved for  outstanding  PSAs. In 1997,  1996 and 1995,  respectively,
126,600,   110,600,   and  122,200   PSAs  were   granted  to   employees.   The
weighted-average fair value of those shares was $44.88 for 1997, $44.44 for 1996
and $32.56 for 1995.

At Dec. 26, 1997, there were 263,696 SARs  outstanding  with a  weighted-average
exercise  price of $16.44.  In 1997 and 1996,  respectively,  171,377 and 69,494
SARs were exercised at  weighted-average  exercise  prices of $14.94 and $15.68;
there were no exercises in 1995.  There were no grants of SARs in 1997,  1996 or
1995.


Stock Award Plan
Under the 1990 Stock Award Plan,  all officers and  employees of the company are
eligible to receive shares of CSX common stock as an incentive award and certain
key  employees are eligible to receive them as a deferral  award.  All awards of
common stock are issued based on terms and conditions  approved by the company's
board of directors.  At Dec. 26, 1997,  there were 1,314,890 shares reserved for
issuance  under this Plan,  of which 815,390 were  available for new grants.  In
1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively,  433,500 shares,  633,587 shares and 348,278
shares were granted  under the Plan.  The  weighted-average  fair value of those
shares was $44.69 for 1997, $45.63 for 1996 and $35.78 for 1995.


Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plans
The 1991  Employees  Stock  Purchase and Dividend  Reinvestment  Plan provides a
method and incentive for eligible  employees to purchase shares of the company's
common  stock  at  market  value  by  payroll  deductions.  To  encourage  stock
ownership, employees receive a 17.65% matching payment on their contributions in
the form of additional stock purchased by the company.  Each matching payment of
stock is subject  to a  two-year  holding  period.  Sales of stock  prior to the
completion of the holding  period  result in  forfeiture  of the matching  stock
purchase. Officers and key employees who qualify for the Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan are not eligible to participate in this Plan. At Dec. 26, 1997,  there were
659,946 shares of common stock available for purchase under this Plan. Employees
purchased 35,593 shares in 1997; 40,985 shares in 1996 and 46,224 shares in 1995
under the plan at  weighted-average  market prices of $51.94,  $47.39 and $40.31
for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

The  company  also   maintains  the  Employees   Stock   Purchase  and  Dividend
Reinvestment Plan and the Shareholders  Dividend  Reinvestment  Plan, adopted in
1981,  under which all employees and  shareholders may purchase CSX common stock
at the  average of daily  high and low sale  prices  for the five  trading  days
ending on the day of purchase. To encourage stock ownership, employees receive a
5% discount on all purchases  under this program.  At Dec. 26, 1997,  there were
4,809,010 shares reserved for issuance under these Plans.



NOTE 12. STOCK PLANS (CONTINUED).

Stock Plan for Directors
The Stock Plan for Directors,  approved by the shareholders in 1992,  governs in
part the manner in which  directors'  fees and  retainers are paid. A minimum of
40% of the retainers  must be paid in common stock of the company.  In addition,
each director may elect to receive up to 100% of the remaining retainer and fees
in the form of  common  stock of the  company.  In 1997,  shareholders  approved
amendments  to the Plan that  would  permit  additional  award of stock or stock
options.  No stock  options have been awarded  under the Plan.  The Plan permits
each director to elect to transfer  stock into a trust that will hold the shares
until the  participant's  death,  disability,  retirement  as a director,  other
cessation  of services as a director,  or change in control of the  company.  At
Dec. 26, 1997,  there were 929,377  shares of common stock reserved for issuance
under this Plan.


NOTE 13.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.
Fair values of the company's financial instruments are estimated by reference to
quoted prices from market sources and financial  institutions,  as well as other
valuation  techniques.  Long-term debt is the only  financial  instrument of the
company with a fair value  significantly  different from its carrying amount. At
Dec. 26, 1997, the fair value of long-term debt,  including current  maturities,
was $7.03 billion, compared with a carrying amount of $6.64 billion. At Dec. 27,
1996, the fair value of long-term debt, including current maturities,  was $4.56
billion,  compared with a carrying  amount of $4.43  billion.  The fair value of
long-term debt has been estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based upon
the company's current incremental borrowing rates for similar types of financing
arrangements.

The company had no significant  hedging or derivative  financial  instruments at
Dec. 26, 1997, or Dec. 27, 1996.


NOTE 14. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.

Pension Plans
The company  sponsors  defined benefit  pension plans,  principally for salaried
personnel.  The plans provide eligible employees with retirement  benefits based
principally on years of service and compensation  rates near retirement.  Annual
contributions to the plans are sufficient to meet the minimum funding  standards
set forth in the Employee  Retirement  Income  Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Plan assets  consist  primarily of common stocks,  corporate  bonds and cash and
cash  equivalents.  Pension  expense is determined  based upon annual  actuarial
valuations and includes the following components:

                                                        1997     1996    1995 
                                                        ----------------------
Service Cost                                            $ 40     $ 37    $ 28
Interest Cost on Projected Benefit Obligation             98       93      91
Actual Return on Plan Assets                            (271)     (89)   (190)
Net Amortization and Deferral                            193       18     117
Foreign Plans                                              3        4       4
                                                        ----------------------
    Pension Expense                                     $ 63     $ 63    $ 50
                                                        ----------------------





The funded  status of the plans and the amounts  reflected  in the  accompanying
statement of financial position at year-end are:



The company experienced a significant  increase in the fair value of plan assets
between the actuarial measurement dates for 1996 and 1997. Due to this increase,
plans comprising a significant  portion of the company's total projected benefit
obligation  experienced a change in funded  status.  Assets  exceeded  projected
benefit  obligations  for  these  plans at Sept.  30,  1997,  and the  company's
aggregate minimum pension liability was reduced by $133 million in 1997.

The following actuarial assumptions were used in determining net pension expense
and projected benefit obligations:


                                                 1997         1996        1995
                                              ---------------------------------
Discount Rate at Valuation Date                 7.50%        7.50%       7.50%
Estimated Long-Term Rate of Salary
 Increases at Valuation Date                    5.00%        5.00%       5.00%
Expected Long-Term Rate of Return
 on Assets During the Period                    9.50%        9.50%       9.75%
                                              ---------------------------------


Savings Plans
The  company  maintains  savings  plans for  virtually  all  full-time  salaried
employees and certain  employees  covered by collective  bargaining  agreements.
Eligible employees may contribute from 1% to 15% of their annual compensation in
1%  multiples  to  these  plans.   The  company  matches   eligible   employees'
contributions  in an amount  equal to the  lesser  of 50% of each  participating
employee's  contributions or 3% of their annual compensation.  In addition,  the
company  contributes  fixed amounts for each  participating  employee covered by
certain collective  bargaining  agreements.  Expense associated with these plans
was  $23  million,  $23  million  and $29  million  for  1997,  1996  and  1995,
respectively.

Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans
In addition to the defined  benefit  pension plans,  the company  sponsors three
plans  that  provide  medical  and life  insurance  benefits  to most  full-time
salaried employees upon their retirement.  The post-retirement medical plans are
contributory,  with retiree contributions  adjusted annually,  and contain other
cost-sharing  features  such as  deductibles  and  coinsurance.  The net benefit
obligation for medical plans anticipates future cost-sharing  changes consistent
with the  company's  expressed  intent to increase  retiree  contribution  rates
annually in line with expected  medical cost inflation rates. The life insurance
plan is non-contributory.




NOTE 14. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED).

The company's current policy is to fund the cost of the post-retirement  medical
and life insurance  benefits on a pay-as-you-go  basis,  as in prior years.  The
amounts recorded for the combined plans in the company's  statement of financial
position at Dec. 26, 1997, and Dec. 27, 1996, are as follows:



Net expense for  post-retirement  benefits was $30 million,  $30 million and $27
million for 1997, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  The net post-retirement benefit
obligation was determined  using the assumption  that the health care cost trend
rate for medical plans was 9.5% for 1997-1998,  decreasing  gradually to 5.5% by
2005 and remaining at that level thereafter. A 1% increase in the assumed health
care cost trend rate would  increase  the  accumulated  post-retirement  benefit
obligation  for  medical  plans as of Dec.  26,  1997,  by $21  million  and net
post-retirement  benefit expense for 1997 by $3 million.  The discount rate used
in determining the accumulated  post-retirement benefit obligation was 7.50% for
1997, 1996 and 1995.

Other Plans
Under collective bargaining agreements,  the company participates in a number of
union-sponsored,  multiemployer  benefit plans. Payments to these plans are made
as part of aggregate assessments generally based on number of employees covered,
hours worked,  tonnage moved or a combination thereof. The administrators of the
multiemployer   plans  generally  allocate  funds  received  from  participating
companies to various health and welfare benefit plans and pension plans. Current
information   regarding   such   allocations   has  not  been  provided  by  the
administrators.  Total  contributions  of $238  million,  $224  million and $239
million were made to these plans in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


NOTE 15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES.

Lease Commitments
The  company  leases  equipment  under  agreements  with  terms up to 21  years.
Non-cancelable,  long-term leases generally  include options to purchase at fair
value and to extend the terms. At Dec. 26, 1997,  minimum building and equipment
rentals under non-cancelable operating leases totaled approximately $414 million
for 1998,  $356 million for 1999,  $304 million for 2000, $290 million for 2001,
$262 million for 2002 and $1.9 billion thereafter.

Rent expense on operating leases, including net daily rental charges on railroad
operating equipment of $239 million, $245 million and $257 million in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively, amounted to $1.2 billion in 1997, 1996 and 1995.

Purchase Commitments
CSXT  entered  into  agreements  during  1993,  1996  and 1997 to  purchase  450
locomotives.  These large orders cover normal  locomotive  replacement needs for
1994 through 1998 and introduced  alternating current traction technology to the
locomotive  fleet.  CSXT  has  taken  delivery  of 50  direct  current  and  301
alternating-current   locomotives  through  Dec.  26,  1997.  The  remaining  99
alternating-current units will be delivered in 1998.



Contingent Liabilities
The  company and its  subsidiaries  are  contingently  liable  individually  and
jointly with others as guarantors of long-term debt and obligations  principally
relating  to  leased  equipment,  joint  ventures  and joint  facilities.  These
contingent  obligations  were immaterial to the company's  results of operations
and financial position at Dec. 26, 1997.

In  September  1997,  a state court jury in New Orleans  returned a $2.5 billion
punitive  damages  award  against  CSXT.  The award  was made in a  class-action
lawsuit against a group of nine companies based on personal  injuries alleged to
have arisen from a 1987 fire. The fire was caused by a leaking chemical tank car
parked on CSXT tracks and  resulted in the 36-hour  evacuation  of a New Orleans
neighborhood.  In the same  case,  the court  awarded  a group of 20  plaintiffs
compensatory  damages  of  approximately  $2  million  against  the  defendants,
including  CSXT,  to which the jury assigned 15% of the  responsibility  for the
incident.  CSXT's  liability  under  that  compensatory  damages  award  is  not
material.

In October  1997,  the Louisiana  Supreme  Court set aside the punitive  damages
judgment,  ruling the judgment  should not have been entered until all liability
issues were  resolved.  CSX believes this decision  means that 8,000 other cases
must be resolved  before the  punitive  damage  claims can be  decided.  CSXT is
pursuing an aggressive  strategy on all legal fronts,  and  management  believes
that any adverse outcome will not be material to CSX's or CSXT's overall results
of operations or financial position, although it could be material to results of
operations in a particular quarterly accounting period.

The  company  has been  advised  that  activities  of a former  subsidiary  that
administered U.S. government  guaranteed student loans are under  investigation.
The subsidiary was sold in 1992. The U.S. Attorney's Office has said that it may
institute proceedings against CSX based on government insurance payments made on
uncollected  loans as a result  of  alleged  processing  deficiencies  or errors
before the sale.  While the amount of  potential  damages is not yet  reasonably
estimable, based upon information currently available to the company, management
believes any adverse  outcome will not be material to the  company's  results of
operations  or financial  position,  although it could be material to results of
operations in a particular quarterly accounting period.

Although the company  obtains  substantial  amounts of commercial  insurance for
potential  losses for  third-party  liability  and property  damage,  reasonable
levels  of risk  are  retained  on a  self-insurance  basis.  A  portion  of the
insurance  coverage,  $25 million limit above $100 million per  occurrence  from
rail and certain other  operations,  is provided by a company partially owned by
CSX.

CSXT is a party to various proceedings  involving private parties and regulatory
agencies  related  to  environmental  issues.  CSXT  has  been  identified  as a
potentially   responsible  party  (PRP)  at  approximately  120  environmentally
impaired  sites that are or may be subject to remedial  action under the Federal
Superfund  statute  (Superfund)  or similar  state  statutes.  A number of these
proceedings  are based on allegations  that CSXT, or its railroad  predecessors,
sent  hazardous  substances to the  facilities  in question for  disposal.  Such
proceedings  arising  under  Superfund  or similar  state  statutes  can involve
numerous other waste  generators and disposal  companies and seek to allocate or
recover costs  associated with site  investigation  and cleanup,  which could be
substantial.

CSXT is involved in a number of  administrative  and  judicial  proceedings  and
other clean-up efforts at approximately 250 sites, including the sites addressed
under the  Federal  Superfund  statute or similar  state  statutes,  where it is
participating   in  the  study   and/or   clean-up   of  alleged   environmental
contamination.  The  assessment  of the required  response  and  remedial  costs
associated  with most sites is extremely  complex.  Cost  estimates are based on
information  available for each site,  financial  viability of other PRPs, where
available, and existing technology, laws and regulations.  CSXT's best estimates
of the  allocation  method  and  percentage  of  liability  when  other PRPs are
involved are based on  assessments  by  consultants,  agreements  among PRPs, or
determinations by the U.S.  Environmental  Protection Agency or other regulatory
agencies.

At least once each quarter,  CSXT reviews its role, if any, with respect to each
such location,  giving  consideration to the nature of CSXT's alleged connection
to the  location  (i.e.,  generator,  owner or  operator),  the extent of CSXT's
alleged  connection  (i.e.,  volume  of waste  sent to the  location  and  other
relevant factors),  the accuracy and strength of evidence connecting CSXT to the
location,  and the number,  connection and financial position of other named and
unnamed PRPs at the  location.  The ultimate  liability for  remediation  can be
difficult to determine with certainty because of the number and creditworthiness
of  PRPs   involved.   Through  the  assessment   process,   CSXT  monitors  the
creditworthiness of such PRPs in determining ultimate liability.

Based upon such reviews and updates of the sites with which it is involved, CSXT
has recorded,  and reviews at least  quarterly  for adequacy,  reserves to cover
estimated  contingent future environmental costs with respect to such sites. The
recorded  liabilities for estimated future environmental costs at Dec. 26, 1997,
and Dec.  27,  1996,  were $99 million  and $117  million,  respectively.  These
recorded  liabilities include amounts representing CSXT's estimate of unasserted
claims, which CSXT believes to be immaterial. The liability has been accrued for
future costs for all sites where the company's  obligation is probable and where
such costs can be reasonably estimated.  The liability includes future costs for
remediation  and  restoration  of  sites  as  well  as any  significant  ongoing
monitoring  costs,  but  excludes  any  anticipated  insurance  recoveries.  The
majority of the Dec.  26, 1997,  environmental  liability is expected to be paid
out over the next five to seven years, funded by cash generated from operations.



The company does not  currently  possess  sufficient  information  to reasonably
estimate  the  amounts of  additional  liabilities,  if any, on some sites until
completion of future  environmental  studies. In addition,  latent conditions at
any given location could result in exposure, the amount and materiality of which
cannot  presently  be  reliably  estimated.  Based  upon  information  currently
available,  however,  the company believes that its  environmental  reserves are
adequate  to  accomplish  remedial  actions  to  comply  with  present  laws and
regulations,  and  that  the  ultimate  liability  for  these  matters  will not
materially affect its overall results of operations and financial position.

Legal Proceedings
A number of legal actions, other than environmental, are pending against CSX and
certain subsidiaries in which claims are made in substantial amounts.  While the
ultimate results of environmental investigations,  lawsuits and claims involving
the company cannot be predicted with  certainty,  management  does not currently
expect that  resolution of these matters will have a material  adverse effect on
the consolidated results of operations,  financial position or cash flows of the
company.


NOTE 16. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.
During 1987,  Sea-Land entered into agreements to sell and lease back by charter
three new U.S.-built,  U.S.-flag,  D-7 class container ships. CSX has guaranteed
the obligations of Sea-Land  pursuant to the related charters which,  along with
the container ships, serve as collateral for debt securities registered with the
Securities  and Exchange  Commission  (SEC).  In accordance  with SEC disclosure
requirements, summarized financial information for Sea-Land and its consolidated
subsidiaries is as follows:

Summary of Operations:                             1997        1996      1995(b)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Revenue                                $3,991       $4,051     $4,008

Operating Expense
    - Public                                      3,634        3,648      3,755
    - Affiliated(a)                                 109          122        107
                                                 -------------------------------
Operating Income                                 $  248       $  281     $  146
                                                 ------------------------------
Net Earnings                                     $   56       $   84     $   86
                                                 -------------------------------


                                                         Dec. 26,       Dec. 27,
Summary of Financial Position:                             1997           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Current Assets - Public                                  $  652          $  747
               - Affiliated(a)                                4               1

Other Assets  - Public                                    1,880           1,829
              - Affiliated(a)                                40              14

Current Liabilities - Public                                626             725
              - Affiliated(a)                                37             115

Other Liabilities - Public                                  687             756
              - Affiliated(a)                               576             347

Shareholder's Equity                                        650             648
                                                         -----------------------

(a) Amounts represent activity with CSX affiliated companies.

(b) Beginning  in 1996,  Sea-Land  assumed  primary  responsibility  for  direct
    purchase  of  transportation  from  non-affiliated  rail  carriers.    These
    services  were  previsouly  purchased  through  a   CSX-affiliated  company.
    Operating expense for  1995 has been  restated to report  this  activity  as
    public expense.


SL Alaska Trade Company (SLATCO) is a special purpose, unconsolidated subsidiary
of Sea-Land wi th  trust-related assets of $117 million securing $106 million of
debt  maturing  on Oct.  1,  2005.  The assets of SLATCO  are not  available  to
creditors of Sea-Land or its  subsidiaries,  nor are the SLATCO notes guaranteed
by Sea-Land or any of its subsidiaries.



NOTE 17. BUSINESS SEGMENTS.



The principal components of the business segments are:

Transportation  -  Rail,  container-shipping,  barge,  intermodal  and  contract
logistics operations. The container-shipping  operation reported revenue of $4.0
billion for 1997,  $4.1 billion for 1996 and $4.0 billion for 1995.  Approximate
revenue  allocation by port of origin for 1997, 1996 and 1995 was: North America
- -- 44%; Asia -- 31%; Europe -- 18%; and Other -- 7%. Foreign business activities
outside the  container-shipping  operation do not  contribute  materially to the
company's financial results.

Non-Transportation - Real estate sales and rentals, resort management and resort
operations.


NOTE 18. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED).







               Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF CSX CORPORATION

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  statements of financial position
of CSX  Corporation  and  subsidiaries  as of December 26, 1997 and December 27,
1996,  and the related  consolidated  statements  of earnings,  cash flows,  and
changes in shareholders' equity for each of the three fiscal years in the period
ended December 26, 1997. These financial  statements are the  responsibility  of
the company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred  to  above
(appearing  on pages  29-50)  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
consolidated  financial position of CSX Corporation and subsidiaries at December
26, 1997 and December 27, 1996, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash  flows for each of the three  fiscal  years in the  period  ended
December 26, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                              /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                  -----------------
                                                  Ernst & Young LLP


Richmond, Virginia
January 30, 1998





                               Board of Directors


                            Elizabeth E. Bailey(2,4)
             John C. Hower Professor of Public Policy and Management
        The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

                            Robert L. Burrus Jr.(4,5)
                              Partner and Chairman
               McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe, LLP, Richmond, Va.

                             Bruce C. Gottwald(4,5)
                                Chairman and CEO
                        Ethyl Corporation, Richmond, Va.

                                John R. Hall(3,5)
                         Chairman of Arch Coal Inc. and
                            Retired Chairman and CEO
                           Ashland Inc., Ashland, Ky.

                             Robert D. Kunisch(1,3)
                                  Vice Chairman
                     Cendant Corporation, Boca Grande, Fla.

                             Hugh L. McColl Jr.(2,4)
                                       CEO
                       NationsBank Corp., Charlotte, N.C.

                            James W. McGlothlin(1,5)
                                Chairman and CEO
                        The United Company, Bristol, Va.

                           Southwood J. Morcott(1,2,4)
                                Chairman and CEO
                         Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio

                             Charles E. Rice(1,2,3)
                             Former Chairman and CEO
                     Barnett Banks Inc., Jacksonville, Fla.

                           William C. Richardson(3,5)
                                President and CEO
                  W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, Mich.

                            Frank S. Royal, M.D.(2,3)
               Physician and Health Care Authority, Richmond, Va.

                                 John W. Snow(1)
                           Chairman, President and CEO
                         CSX Corporation, Richmond, Va.


  Key to committees of the board 
    1 - Executive, 2 - Audit, 3 - Compensation, 4 - Pension,
    5 - Organization & Corporate Responsibility



                               Corporate Officers

John W. Snow, 58*, Chairman, President and CEO -- elected February 1991

Mark G. Aron, 55*, Executive Vice  President-Law  and  Public Affairs -- elected
 April 1995(1)

Andrew B. Fogarty, 53*,  Senior  Vice  President-Corporate  Services --  elected
 September 1997(2)

Paul R. Goodwin, 55*,  Executive   Vice   President-Finance  and Chief Financial
 Officer -- elected April 1995(3)

Ellen M. Fitzsimmons, 37, General Counsel-Corporate -- elected September 1997

Arnold I. Havens, 50, Vice President-Federal Affairs -- elected February 1997

Thomas E. Hoppin, 56, Vice President-Corporate  Communications -- elected  April

William F. Miller, 55,  Vice  President-Audit and  Advisory  Services -- elected
 September 1996

Jesse R. Mohorovic, 55*, Vice  President-Corporate Relations -- elected February
 1995(4)

James P. Peter, 47, Vice President-Taxes -- elected June 1993

James L. Ross, 59*, Vice President and Controller -- elected April 1996(5)

Alan A. Rudnick, 50, Vice President-General Counsel  and Corporate  Secretary --
 elected June 1991

Michael J. Ruehling, 50, Vice President-State Relations -- elected February 1995

James A. Searle Jr., 51, Vice President-Administration -- elected April 1996

Peter J. Shudtz, 49, Vice President-Law and General Counsel -- elected September

William H. Sparrow, 54*,  Vice  President-Financial  Planning -- elected January
 1996(6)

Gregory R. Weber, 52*, Vice President and Treasurer -- elected April 1996(7)



                                 Unit Officers

                            CSX TRANSPORTATION INC.

Alvin R. (Pete) Carpenter, 56*
President and CEO since January 1992

John Q. Anderson, 46*
Executive Vice President-Sales & Marketing since May 1996(8)

Donald D. Davis, 58*
Executive Vice President-Employee Relations since January 1998(9)

Gerald L. Nichols, 62*
Vice Chairman since January 1998(10)

Carl N. Taylor, 58*
Executive Vice President-Operations since January 1998(11)

Michael J. Ward, 47*
Executive Vice President-Finance and CFO since June 1996(12)


                             SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.

John P. Clancey, 53*
President and CEO since August 1991

Robert J. Grassi, 51*
Senior Vice President-Finance and Planning since August 1997(13)

Richard E. Murphy, 53*
Senior Vice President-Corporate Marketing since June 1996(14)

Charles G. Raymond, 54*
Senior Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer
since May 1995(15)


                              CSX INTERMODAL INC.

Lester M. Passa, 43*
President and CEO since November 1997(16)


                         AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LINES INC.

Michael C. Hagan, 51*
President and CEO since May 1992


                         CUSTOMIZED TRANSPORTATION INC.

David G. Kulik, 49
President and CEO since December 1994


                                 THE GREENBRIER

Ted J. Kleisner, 53
President and Managing Director since January 1989


                           YUKON PACIFIC CORPORATION

Jeff B. Lowenfels, 49
President and CEO since February 1995


                                 CSX TECHNOLOGY

John F. Andrews, 44*
President and CEO since April 1995
and CSX Chief Information Officer -- elected November 1997(17)


* Executive  officers of the corporation.  Executive officers of CSX Corporation
  are  elected  by the CSX board of  directors  and hold  office  until the next
  annual  election  of  officers.  Officers  of CSX  business  units are elected
  annually by the respective  boards of directors of the business  units.  There
  are no family  relationships or any arrangement or  understanding  between any
  officer and any other person pursuant to which such officer was selected.  All
  of the  executive  officers  listed have held their  current  positions for at
  least five years except as noted below:

1) Prior to April 1995, Mr. Aron  served as Senior Vice President-Law and Public
   Affairs.

2) Prior to September 1997, Mr. Fogarty served as Senior Vice  President-Finance
   and  Planning,  Sea-Land,  from  June  1996  TO  August  1997;  As  CSX  Vice
   President-Audit and Advisory Services from March 1995 TO June 1996; and prior
   thereto as CSX Vice President-Executive Department.

3) Prior to April 1995,  Mr.  Goodwin  served as an officer of CSXT as Executive
   Vice  President-Finance & Administration from February 1995 to April 1995; as
   Senior Vice  President-Finance  from April 1992 to February  1995;  and prior
   thereto as Senior Vice President-Finance.

4) Prior to February  1995,  Mr.  Mohorovic  served as Vice  President-Corporate
   Communications,  CSXT, from April 1994 to February 1995, and prior thereto as
   Vice President-Corporate Communications, Sea-Land.

5) Prior to April 1996, Mr. Ross served as CSX Vice  President-Special  Projects
   from  October  1995 to April 1996,  and prior  thereto as Audit  Partner with
   Ernst & Young, LLP.

6) Prior to January 1996, Mr. Sparrow served as Vice President-Capital  Planning
   and  Budgeting  from  May 1994 to  January  1996 and  prior  thereto  as Vice
   President and Treasurer.

7) Prior to April 1996,  Mr.  Weber  served as Vice  President,  Controller  and
   Treasurer,  from May 1994 TO April 1996,  and prior thereto as Vice President
   and Controller.

8) Prior to May 1996, Mr. Anderson served as Senior Vice President-Coal,  Metals
   and Minerals Business for Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation.

9) Prior to January 1998, Mr. Davis served as CSXTSenior Vice President-Employee
   Relations.

10)Prior to January 1998,  Mr.  Nichols  served as CSXT Executive Vice President
   and COO from  February  1995 to January 1998 and prior thereto as Senior Vice
   President-Administration of CSXT.

11)Prior to January  1998,  Mr.  Taylor  served as CSXT  Senior  Vice  President
   Transportation  & Mechanical  and Chief  Financial  Officer from July 1996 to
   January 1998; Senior Vice President  Engineering & Mechanical from March 1995
   to July 1996; and prior thereto as Vice President Mechanical.

12)Prior to May 1996,  Mr.  Ward  served as an  officer  of CSXT as Senior  Vice
   President-Finance  from April 1995 TO May 1996; General Manager-C&O  Business
   unit from 1994 TO April 1995; and prior thereto as Vice President-Coal.

13)Prior  to  August  1997,   Mr.   Grassi   served  as  Sea-Land   Senior  Vice
   President-Atlantic,  AME  Services  from June  1996 to August  1997 and prior
   thereto as Senior Vice President-Finance and Planning.

14)Prior   to   June   1996,    Mr.    Murphy    served   as    Sea-Land    Vice
   President-Atlantic-AME  from 1995 to June 1996; Senior Vice President-Pacific
   Services  from 1993 to 1995;  and  prior  thereto  as Vice  President-Pacific
   Services.

15)Prior  to  May  1995,   Mr.   Raymond   served  as   Sea-Land   Senior   Vice
   President-Operations and Inland Transportation.

16)Prior to November  1997,  Mr. Passa served as CSXT Vice  President-Commercial
   Integration  from July 1997 to November 1997, and prior thereto as an officer
   of  Conrail  Inc.  as Senior  Vice  President-Automotive  Service  Group from
   February 1997 to July 1997; as Vice  President-Logistics & Corporate Strategy
   from March 1995 to  February  1997;  as  Assistant  Vice  President-Corporate
   Strategy.

17)Prior  to  April  1995,  Mr.   Andrews   served  as  Vice   President-Systems
   Development, CSX Technology.




                            Shareholder Information

                              SHAREHOLDER SERVICES

Shareholders  with questions  about their  accounts  should contact the transfer
agent at the address or telephone  number shown below.  General  questions about
CSX or  information  contained  in company  publications  should be  directed to
corporate communications at the address or telephone number shown below.

Security   analysts,   portfolio   managers   or  other   investment   community
representatives  should contact  investor  relations at the address or telephone
number shown below.


TRANSFER AGENT, REGISTRAR AND DIVIDEND DISBURSING

Agent Harris Trust Company
P.O. Box A3504
Chicago, IL 60690
(800) 521-5571
e-mail: WEBSHARE@HARRISBANK.com


CSX Direct Invest
Harris Trust Dividend Reinvestment Department
P. O. Box A3309
Chicago, IL 60690-3309
(800) 521-5571
e-mail: www.harrisbank.com


Shareholder Relations
Anne B. Taylor
Administrator-Shareholder Services
CSX Corporation
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-1465
e-mail: Anne_Taylor@csx.com


Corporate Communications
Elisabeth Gabrynowicz
Director-Corporate Communications
CSX Corporation
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-1406
e-mail: Elisabeth_Gabrynowicz@csx.com


Investor Relations
Joseph C. Wilkinson
Director-Investor Relations
CSX Corporation
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-1553
e-mail: Joseph_Wilkinson@csx.com


DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT
CSX provides  dividend  reinvestment  and stock  purchase  plans for  employees,
shareholders and potential  shareholders as a convenient method of acquiring CSX
shares  through  direct  purchase,   dividend  reinvestment  and  optional  cash
payments.

CSXDirect Invest
CSXDirectInvestSM,  a direct  stock  purchase and  dividend  reinvestment  plan,
permits the purchase  and sale of shares  directly  though our  transfer  agent,
Harris  Trust.  Through this plan, no service  charges or brokerage  commissions
apply to share  purchases,  and  sales  can be made  with  minimal  charges  and
commissions.  Initial  investment  for a  non-shareholder  is  $500  plus  a $10
one-time enrollment fee.

The plan also allows for automatic reinvestment of dividends in CSX common stock
without  payment of any brokerage  commissions  or service  charges,  or you may
receive  dividend  payments  on some or all of your  shares.  You  also may make
optional cash  investments with as little as $50 per month, or up to $10,000 per
month, without any charges or commissions. Optional cash investments may be made
by mailing a check or money order to Harris, or by authorizing automatic monthly
withdrawals  from your bank  account.  You also may make  gifts of CSX shares to
others through the plan, and present them with a gift memento if desired. You do
not need to own shares of CSX stock currently to enroll in this plan.

To obtain a prospectus or other information regarding CSXDirectInvestSM,  please
call or write the Harris Trust  Dividend  Reinvestment  Department  at the phone
number  or  address  above.  Or,  if you  prefer,  you may visit our web site at
www.csx.com.



Stock Held in Brokerage Accounts
When a broker holds your stock,  it is usually  registered in the broker's name,
or "street  name." We do not know the identity of  individual  shareholders  who
hold stock in this manner.  We know only that a broker holds a certain number of
shares  that  may  be for  any  number  of  customers.  If  your  stock  is in a
street-name account,  you are not eligible to participate in  CSXDirectInvestSM,
the company's  direct stock purchase and dividend  reinvestment  plan. Also, you
will receive your dividend payments,  annual reports and proxy materials through
your broker.  You should notify your broker,  not Harris  Trust,  if you wish to
eliminate  unwanted,  duplicate  mailings  and  improve  the  timeliness  on the
delivery of these materials and your dividend payments.


LOST OR STOLEN STOCK CERTIFICATES
If your stock certificates are lost, stolen or in some way destroyed, you should
notify Harris Trust in writing immediately.


MULTIPLE DIVIDEND CHECKS AND DUPLICATE MAILINGS
Some shareholders hold their stock on CSX records in similar but different names
(e.g. John A. Smith and J.A. Smith). When this occurs, we are required to create
separate accounts for each name. Although the mailing addresses are the same, we
are  required  to mail  separate  dividend  checks  to each  account.  Duplicate
mailings of annual reports can be eliminated if you send the labels or copies of
the labels  from a CSX  mailing to Harris  Trust.  You should mark the labels to
indicate names to be kept on the mailing list and names to be deleted.  However,
this action will affect mailings of financial  materials  only.  Dividend checks
and proxy materials will continue to be sent to each account.


CONSOLIDATING ACCOUNTS
If you want to  consolidate  separate  accounts  into one  account,  you  should
contact Harris Trust for the necessary forms and instructions. When accounts are
consolidated, it may be necessary to reissue the stock certificates.


DIVIDENDS
CSX pays quarterly  dividends on its common stock on or about the 15th of March,
June,  September  and  December,  when  declared by the board of  directors,  to
shareholders of record  approximately three weeks earlier. CSX now offers direct
deposit of  dividends  to  shareholders  who request it. If you are  interested,
please contact Harris Trust at the address or phone number shown on page 54.


REPLACING DIVIDEND CHECKS
If you do not receive  your  dividend  check  within 10 business  days after the
payment date or if your check is lost or  destroyed,  you should  notify  Harris
Trust so payment on the check can be stopped and a replacement issued.


ENVIRONMENTAL/SAFETY REPORT
CSX is publishing an environmental/safety  report,  available to shareholders at
the  Annual  Meeting.  Shareholders  may  order  additional  copies  by  calling
804-783-1349 or visiting our website.


                             Corporate Information

HEADQUARTERS
One James Center
901 East Cary Street
Richmond, VA 23219-4031
(804) 782-1400
http://www.csx.com


MARKET INFORMATION
CSX's common stock is listed on the New York,  London and Swiss stock  exchanges
and trades with unlisted privileges on the Midwest, Boston, Cincinnati,  Pacific
and Philadelphia stock exchanges.  The official trading symbol is "CSX."


DESCRIPTION OF COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCKS
A  total  of 300  million  shares  of  common  stock  is  authorized,  of  which
218,309,911  shares were outstanding as of Dec. 26, 1997. Each share is entitled
to one  vote in all  matters  requiring  a vote of  shareholders.  There  are no
pre-emptive rights.

A total of 25 million shares of preferred stock is authorized. Series A consists
of 250,000 shares of $7 Cumulative  Convertible Preferred Stock. All outstanding
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were redeemed as of July 31, 1992.

Series B consists of 3 million shares of Junior  Participating  Preferred Stock,
none of which has been issued.  These shares will become  issuable only and when
the rights  distributed  to holders of common  stock under the  Preferred  Share
Rights Plan adopted by CSX on June 8, 1988, become exercisable.


                            Closing Price of Common
                            Stock at Fiscal Year-End
                                   (Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                    '93      '94      '95      '96      '97
                  $40.94    $34.82   $45.63   $42.88   $51.13


COMMON STOCK PRICE RANGE AND DIVIDENDS PER SHARE

Fiscal Year                          1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter                   1st        2nd        3rd        4th
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Market Price
High                    $52.00     $56.13     $62.44     $60.75
Low                     $41.25     $44.13     $53.94     $50.25
Dividends Per Share     $  .26     $  .26     $  .26     $  .30
- ---------------------------------------------------------------



Fiscal Year                          1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter                   1st        2nd        3rd        4th
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Market Price
High                    $48.50     $53.13     $53.00     $52.38
Low                     $42.25     $44.13     $42.25     $42.50
Dividends Per Share     $  .26     $  .26     $  .26     $  .26
- ---------------------------------------------------------------



Fiscal Year                          1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter                   1st        2nd        3rd        4th
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Market Price
High                    $39.88     $41.00     $44.63     $46.13
Low                     $34.63     $36.00     $37.44     $39.06
Dividends Per Share     $  .22     $  .22     $  .22     $  .26
- ---------------------------------------------------------------



Fiscal Year                          1994
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter                   1st        2nd        3rd        4th
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Market Price
High                    $46.19     $41.63     $39.57     $37.25
Low                     $39.94     $35.50     $33.00     $31.57
Dividends Per Share     $  .22     $  .22     $  .22     $  .22
- ---------------------------------------------------------------



Fiscal Year                          1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Quarter                   1st        2nd        3rd        4th
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Market Price
High                    $39.98     $39.07     $40.13     $44.07
Low                     $33.57     $33.19     $33.94     $37.44
Dividends Per Share     $  .19     $  .19     $  .19     $  .22
- ---------------------------------------------------------------


Data for periods  prior to 4th  quarter  1995 have been  adjusted  for a 2-for-1
common stock split.



NUMBER OF REGISTERED SHAREHOLDERS

 1997     1996     1995     1994     1993
- ------   ------   ------   ------   ------
52,852   55,176   55,528   57,355   59,714


SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF JAN. 23, 1998: 218,308,863


COMMON STOCK SHAREHOLDERS AS OF JAN. 23, 1998: 52,599





                            Proposed Acquisition Map

The  proposed  division of  Conrail's  rail network is along the former New York
Central/Pennsylvania  systems.  CSX's 42% of Conrail is centered  around the New
York-to-St. Louis Water Level Route of the former New York Central.

Historically,  the New York Central  competed  with the  Pennsylvania  Railroad,
which makes up much of the Norfolk  Southern  acquisition.  Thus,  the  proposed
division of Conrail effectively restores rail-rail  competition in the Northeast
while creating single-line service making CSXT more competitive with trucks.

                                     [MAP]




ANNUAL SHAREHOLDER MEETING
10 a.m., Tuesday, April 28, 1998
The Greenbrier White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.


SHAREHOLDER HOUSE PARTIES AT THE GREENBRIER
Throughout the year, The Greenbrier  offers  Shareholder House Parties featuring
discounted rates and special  activities.  Shareholder House Parties in 1998 are
scheduled for:

    EASTER - APRIL 8-12

    ANNUAL MEETING - APRIL 26-29

    LABOR DAY - SEPT. 4-8

For information on shareholder  parties,  contact Maryann Sanford,  Reservations
Department, The Greenbrier, 300 W. Main Street, White Sulphur Springs, WV 24986,
or phone toll-free (800) 624-6070 or e-mail to The_Greenbrier@csx.com  

Again in 1998,  The  Greenbrier  is pleased to extend to all  shareholders  a 10
percent discount on their Modified American Plan rates,  applicable to one visit
per year.  Reservations will be accepted on a space-available  basis. This offer
does not apply during CSX House Parties,  when rates are already discounted,  or
if a shareholder is attending a conference being held at The Greenbrier.



CSX CORPORATION
One James Center
901 East Cary Street
Richmond, VA 23219-4031
(804) 782-1400
Internet address: http://www.csx.com

CSX TRANSPORTATION INC.
500 Water Street
Jacksonville, FL 32202
(904) 359-3100
Internet address: http://www.csxt.com

SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.
6000 Carnegie Blvd.
Charlotte, NC 28209
(704) 571-2000
Internet address: http://www.sealand.com

CSX INTERMODAL INC.
301 West Bay Street
Jacksonville, FL 32202
(904) 633-1000
Internet address: http://www.csxi.com

AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LINES INC.
1701 E. Market Street
Jeffersonville, IN 47130
(812) 288-0100
Internet address: http://www.aclines.com

CUSTOMIZED TRANSPORTATION INC.
10407 Centurion Parkway, N., Ste. 400
Jacksonville, FL 32256
(904) 928-1400
Internet address: http://www.cti-logistics.com

THE GREENBRIER
300 W. Main Street
White Sulphur Springs, WV 24986
(304) 536-1110
Internet address: http://www.greenbrier.com

YUKON PACIFIC CORPORATION
1049 W. 5th Avenue
Anchorage, AK 99501
(907) 265-3100
Internet address: http://www.csx.com/docs/ypc/ypc.html


                                 CSX Corporation





Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf  by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized,  on the  18th  day of
February 1998.

                                             CSX Corporation

                                         By: /s/ James L. Ross
                                             -----------------
                                             James L. Ross, Vice President
                                              and Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

 Signatures                                  Title
- ------------                 -------------------------------------
John W. Snow                 Chairman of the Board, President,
                              Chief Executive Officer and Director
                             (Principal Executive Officer)*

Paul R. Goodwin              Executive Vice President-Finance
                              (Principal Financial Officer)*

Elizabeth E. Bailey          Director*

Robert L. Burrus Jr.         Director*

Bruce C. Gottwald            Director*

John R. Hall                 Director*

Robert D. Kunisch            Director*

Hugh L. McColl Jr.           Director*

James W. McGlothlin          Director*

Southwood J. Morcott         Director*

Charles E. Rice              Director*

William C. Richardson        Director*

Frank S. Royal, M.D.         Director*


/s/ Peter J. Shudtz
- -----------------------------------
* Peter J. Shudtz, Attorney-in-Fact
  February 18, 1998




                                CSX CORPORATION
                            Statement of Differences

1.   The  printed  Annual  Report  and Form 10-K  contains  numerous  graphs and
     photographs not incorporated into the electronic Form 10-K.

2.   The 10-K cover sheet and index, presented on pages 49 and 50 of the printed
     document, have been repositioned to the front of the electronic document.
                 


                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Description

  (3.1)  Articles of  Incorporation (incorporated by  reference  as Exhibit 3 to
          Form 10-K dated Feb. 15, 1991)

  (3.2)  Bylaws  (incorporated by  reference to Exhibit  3.2 to Form 10-K  dated
          March 14, 1997)

 (10.1)  CSX Stock Plan for Directors*  (incorporated by reference to Appendix A
          to Proxy Statement dated March 18, 1997)

 (10.2)  Special  Retirement Plan for CSX  Directors*

 (10.3)  Corporate  Director Deferred Compensation Plan*

 (10.4)  CSX  Directors'  Charitable  Gift  Plan  (incorporated by  reference to
          Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K dated  March 4, 1994)

 (10.5)  CSX Directors'  Matching  Gift  Plan*   (incorporated  by  reference to
          Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-K dated March 14, 1997)

 (10.6)  Form  of  Agreement  with  J. W. Snow,  A. R. Carpenter, J. P. Clancey,
          P. R.  Goodwin  and G. L.  Nichols*    (incorporated  by reference  to
          Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-K dated March 3, 1995)

 (10.7)  Form of Amendment to  Agreement with A. R. Carpenter, P. R. Goodwin and
          G. L. Nichols (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-K
          dated March 14, 1997)

 (10.8)  Form of  Amendment to  Agreement with J. P. Clancey*   (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-K dated March 14, 1997)

 (10.9)  Form of  Retention  Agreement with A. R.  Carpenter and J. P.  Clancey*
          (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K dated Feb. 28,
          1992)

(10.10)  Agreement with J. W.  Snow* (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10.9
          to Form 10-K dated March 4, 1994)

(10.11)  Amendment to Agreement with J. W.  Snow  (incorporated  by reference to
          Exhibit 10.11 to Form 10-K dated March 14, 1997)

(10.12)  Amendment to Agreement with J. W. Snow*

(10.13)  Agreement with G. L. Nichols*

(10.14)  Stock Purchase and Loan Plan*

(10.15)  1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan*

(10.16)  1985 Deferred  Compensation  Program for  Executives of CSX Corporation
          and Affiliated Companies*

(10.17)  Supplementary  Savings  Plan  and  Incentive  Award  Deferral  Plan for
          Eligible Executives of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Companies*

(10.18)  Special Retirement Plan of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Companies*

(10.19)  Supplemental  Retirement  Plan  of  CSX   Corporation  and   Affiliated
          Companies*

(10.20)  1994 Senior Management  Incentive  Compensation Plan*  (incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K dated March 3, 1995)

   (21)  Subsidiaries of the Registrant

 (23.1)  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

 (23.2)  Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP

   (27)  Financial Data Schedule

 (99.1)  Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and  Schedule of Conrail Inc.
          for the Years Ended Dec. 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995


*  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.


