10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K DATED DECEMBER 27, 2002

Form 10-K dated December 27, 2002

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 27, 2002

OR

[    ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission File Number 1-8022

CSX CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Virginia

62-1051971

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

500 Water Street, 15

th

Floor, Jacksonville, Florida


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(904)
359-3200

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $1 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes (X) No (    )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. (    )

Exhibit Index can be found on page 13


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule
12b-2). Yes (X) No (            )

On June 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of the Registrant’s voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $5.7 billion (based on the New York Stock Exchange closing price on such
date).

On January 24, 2003, there were 214,686,566 shares of
Common Stock outstanding.


PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 1
under the caption “Financial Highlights”, page 7 under the caption “CSX Transportation,” page 8 under the caption “CSX Intermodal,” page 8 under the caption “CSX World Terminals,” and page 9 “Other
Activities,” and pages 17-29 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages
17-29 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, page 34 under the caption “Properties” and page 41 under the caption “Note 8. Properties.” of the
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

In response to these Item, the information set forth on page 26 under the caption “Claims Arising out of Sale of International Container-Shipping Assets,” on page 26 under the caption “1. Casualty, Legal and
Environmental Reserves,” page 52 under the caption “Claims Arising out of Sale of International Container-Shipping Assets,” page 53 under the captions “Contract Settlement” and “Other Legal Proceedings and
Arbitrations.”

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders in the fourth quarter of 2002.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive officers of CSX Corporation are elected by the CSX Board of Directors and hold office until the next annual election of officers. Officers of CSX business units are elected annually by the
respective Boards of Directors of the business units. There are no family relationships or any arrangement or understanding between any officer and any other person pursuant to which such officer was selected.



PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR
REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 58, “Shareholder Information”, and page 59, “Corporate Information”, of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

In response to this Item, the information set forth on page 1
of the Annual Report under the caption “Financial Highlights” is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF

OPERATIONS

In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages 17-29 of the Annual Report under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

In response to this Item, the
information set forth on page 24 of the Annual Report under the caption “Market Risk” is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

In response to this Item, the information set forth on pages 30-56, and page 57 under the caption
“Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)” of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL

DISCLOSURE

None.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this Item is
incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement, except for the information regarding the executive officers of the Registrant which is included in Part I of this report under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.


ITEM
12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans
under which CSX Corporation common stock may be issued as of December 27, 2002.

(1)

The number of shares remaining available for future issuance under plans approved by shareholders includes 1,030,345 shares available for employee purchase pursuant
to the 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; 678,411 shares available for stock option grants, payment of director compensation, and stock grants pursuant to the CSX Stock Plan for Directors; and 6,878,033 shares available for grant in the form of
stock options, performance units, restricted stock, stock appreciation rights, and stock awards pursuant to the CSX Omnibus Incentive Plan.

(2)

The 1990 Stock Award Plan (“1990 Plan”) is the only CSX equity compensation plan that has not been approved by shareholders. Upon approval of the CSX
Omnibus Incentive Plan by shareholders in 2000, the plan was closed to further grants. No options have been granted under the 1990 Plan since 1999.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

In accordance with Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the
information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.


PART IV

ITEM 14.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

As of February 18, 2003, under the
supervision and with the participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), management has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and
procedures. Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO, concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of February 18, 2003. There were no significant changes in the Company’s internal controls or in the
other factors that could significantly affect those controls subsequent to the date of the evaluation.

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

(1)    Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements and independent auditor’s report, which appear on pages 30-56 of the Annual Report,
are incorporated herein by reference:

Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the Fiscal Years Ended December 27, 2002, December 28, 2001, and December 29, 2000

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Fiscal Years Ended December 27, 2002, December 28, 2001, and December 29, 2000

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 27,
2002 and December 28, 2001

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the Fiscal Years Ended December 27, 2002, December 28, 2001, and December 29, 2000

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Auditors


The following
financial statement footnote was not included in the Annual Report:

Note 19. Summarized Consolidating Financial Data – CSX Lines (formerly Sea-Land)

During 1987, Sea-Land entered into agreements to sell and lease back, by charter, three new U.S. –built, U.S. –flag, D-7 class
container ships. The ships were not included in the sale of international liner assets to Maersk in December 1999 and the related debt remains an obligation of CSX Lines. CSX has guaranteed the obligations of CSX Lines pursuant to the related
charters which, along with the container ships, serve as collateral for debt securities registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). As noted in Note 3 of the Annual Report, Divestitures, CSX agreed to convey certain assets of CSX
Lines to Horizon Lines LLC. These obligations are not part of this transaction and another CSX entity will become the obligor in 2003. In accordance with SEC disclosure requirements, consolidating summarized financial information for the parent and
obligor are as follows (Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2002 presentation) (In millions):

Consolidating Statement of Earnings


Consolidating Statement of Earnings

Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows


Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows


Consolidating Statement of Financial Position


Consolidating Statement of Financial Position


(2)    Financial Statement Schedules

The information required by Rule 3-09 is included in the Annual Report in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, “Investment in and Integrated Rail Operations with Conrail” and the
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Conrail Inc., filed herewith as exhibit 99.3. The information required by Schedule II is included in the Annual Report in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, “Casualty, Environmental and
Other Reserves.” All other financial statement schedules are not applicable.

(3)    Exhibits





*

Filed herewith

**

Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement

***

Except for those portions of the Annual Report which are expressly incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report is furnished for the information of
the Securities and Exchange Commission only and is not to be deemed “filed” as part of this Form 10-K.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2002 reporting that CSX Corporation had entered into an Underwriting Agreement for the public offering of
$200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company’s 4.875% Notes due 2009


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: February
25, 2003

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 24, 2003.


*By:

/s/  E

LLEN

M. F

ITZSIMMONS

Ellen M. Fitzsimmons

Attorney-in-Fact


CERTIFICATE
OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

I, Michael J. Ward, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CSX Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date: February 25, 2003

/s/    M

ICHAEL

J.
W

ARD

Michael J. Ward

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


CERTIFICATE
OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

I, Paul R. Goodwin, certify that:

1.

I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CSX Corporation;

2.

Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;

3.

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and have:

a)

designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b)

evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report
(the “Evaluation Date”); and

c)

presented in this annual report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit committee
of the registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

a)

all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record, process, summarize
and report financial data and have identified for the registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b)

any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

6.

The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Date:

February 25, 2003

21