
10-K405
FORM 10-K


    
                            FORM 10-K

               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549

(X)    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       For the fiscal year ended December 27, 1996
                               OR
( )    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       For the transition period from                 to                  
                                      ----------------   ---------------
                 Commission file number  1-8022
                                         ------
                         CSX CORPORATION
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Virginia                                           62-1051971
(State or other jurisdiction of                          (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

    901 East Cary Street, Richmond, VA.                     23219-4031
 (Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (804) 782-1400

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                    Name of each exchange on
      Title of each class                                which registered
- -------------------------------                  -----------------------------
  Common Stock, $1 Par Value                         New York Stock Exchange

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes (X)  No ( )

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  (X)

On January 24, 1997, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's voting
stock held by nonaffiliates (using the New York Stock Exchange closing price)
was $10.3 billion.

On January 24, 1997, there were 216,898,817 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.
               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
The Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of security holders on April 17,
1997), is incorporated by reference for Part III.
                                                            



Item Captions and Index--Form 10-K Annual Report

Item No.                                                      Page
Part I
 1.  Business..............................................1, 8-18
 2.  Properties.......................................8-18, 24, 30


 3.  Legal Proceedings.......................................38-40
 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.......N/A
4a.  Executive Officers of the Registrant.......................43

 Part II
 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity
     and Related Stockholder Matters.........................45,46
 6.  Selected Financial Data.....................................1
 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
     Financial Condition and Results of Operations............8-18
 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.......See Item 14
 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
     on Accounting and Financial Disclosure....................N/A

Part III
10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant........(a)
11.  Executive Compensation....................................(a)
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
     and Management............................................(a)
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions............(a)

Part IV
14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
     on Form 8-K
     a. Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the
        Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 27, 1996, Dec. 29, 1995,
        and Dec. 30, 1994 ......................................19

        Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the
        Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 27, 1996, Dec. 29, 1995,
        and Dec. 30, 1994.......................................20

        Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at
        Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995........................21

        Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders'
        Equity for the Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 27, 1996,
        Dec. 29, 1995, and Dec. 30, 1994........................22

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the
        Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 27, 1996, Dec. 29, 1995,
        and Dec. 30, 1994 ...................................23-42

        Report of Independent Auditors..........................42

     b. Reports on Form 8-K
        A report was filed on Oct. 17, 1996, reporting Item 5,
        Other Events -- Agreement and Plan of Merger with
        Conrail Inc., and Item 7, Financial Information and
        Exhibits -- Documents related to Agreement and
        Plan of Merger with Conrail Inc. filed as exhibits.

(a) Part III will be incorporated by reference from the  registrant's  1997
    Proxy Statement pursuant to instructions G(1) and G(3) of the General
    Instructions to Form 10-K.




                              Financial Highlights



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


(a)  In  1996,  the  company   changed  its  earnings   presentation   to
     exclude non-transportation  activities  from  operating  revenue and
     expense.  These activities,  principally real estate and resort operations,
     are now included in other income in the consolidated statement of earnings.
     Prior-year amounts have been restated to conform to the 1996 presentation.

(b)  In 1995,  the company  recognized a net investment  gain of $77 million,
     $51 million after tax, 24 cents per share,  on the issuance of an equity
     interest in a Sea-Land  terminal and related  operations in Asia and the
     write-down of various investments.

(c)  In 1994,  the state of  Florida  elected to satisfy  its  remaining
     unfunded obligation issued in 1988 to consummate the purchase of 80 miles
     of track and right of way. The transaction  resulted in an accelerated
     pretax gain of $69 million and increased net earnings by $42 million, 20
     cents per share.

(d)  The  company  revised  its  estimated  annual  effective  tax rate in 1993
     to reflect  the change in the  federal  statutory  income tax rate from 34
     to 35 percent.  The effect of this  change was to  increase  income tax
     expense for 1993 by $56  million,  26 cents per share.  Of this amount, $51
     million,  24 cents per share,  related to applying the newly enacted
     statutory income tax rate to deferred tax balances as of Jan. 1, 1993.

(e)  In 1995,  the company  recorded a $257 million pretax charge to recognize
     the estimated  costs  of  initiatives  to  revise,  restructure  and
     consolidate specific   operations   and   administrative   functions   at
     its  rail  and container-shipping  units. The  restructuring  charge
     reduced net earnings by $160 million, 76 cents per share. In 1993, the
     company recorded a $93 million pretax  charge to recognize  the  estimated
     costs of  restructuring  certain operations and functions at its
     container-shipping  unit. The  restructuring charge reduced net earnings by
     $61 million,  30 cents per share. In 1992, the company  recorded a charge
     to  recognize  the  estimated  costs of buying out certain  trip-based
     compensation  elements  paid to train crews.  The pretax charge  amounted
     to $699  million and reduced net  earnings  for 1992 by $450 million, $2.19
     per share.

(f)  Amounts per common share for 1992 through 1995 have been  restated to
     reflect the 2-for-1 common stock split distributed to shareholders in
     December 1995.

(g)  Employee counts based on annual averages.




                               Chairman's Message

                      1996 was a momentous year for CSX.
                   We achieved record financial performance.
                     We also took ground-breaking steps to
                     enhance the company's competitiveness,
                     satisfy customer requirements, develop
                    long-term growth prospects, and provide
                         superior shareholder value.

[Photo]


   Before discussing the company's financial results and the performance of our
respective  transportation  units, let me review the proposed CSX/Conrail merger
- - the event that made 1996 the most important year since the company's  creation
in 1980 from the merger of the Chessie  and  Seaboard  rail systems.  To better
understand the rationale for our strategic merger agreement, it's important to
consider the impact consolidation has had on the rail industry in recent years.

   Over the last two decades,  deregulation  and  consolidation  of the nation's
railroads into strong,  efficient  networks has nurtured a rail renaissance that
has greatly benefited customers, shareholders and the broader public interest in
efficient transportation. More recently, that process accelerated, with the 1995
merger of the Burlington Northern and Santa Fe railroads, and last year's merger
of the Union Pacific and Southern  Pacific  systems.  Thus,  the number of major
rail  carriers  serving the Western half of the country went from four to two in
less than a year.

   These mergers  unavoidably  set in motion  efforts to  consolidate  the three
major  Eastern  rail  systems - CSX,  Norfolk  Southern  and  Conrail - into two
networks. Naturally, each of the Eastern carriers was concerned it might be left
without a partner should transcontinental mergers occur. Well aware that Norfolk
Southern had attempted to acquire  Conrail in its entirety on several  occasions
in recent  years and was  determined  to do so again,  CSX moved  decisively  to
protect its vital  interests.  On Oct.  14,  1996,  we entered  into a strategic
merger  agreement  with Conrail  that called for CSX to acquire all  outstanding
shares of Conrail stock in a combined cash-stock transaction.

   We knew that Norfolk Southern would fight the merger. We also recognized that
concessions would have to be made because of Conrail's unique market position in
the Northeast,  a situation created by the government out of necessity more than
20 years ago.  Nevertheless,  the logic for  joining  forces  with  Conrail  was
compelling.

   Conrail and CSX have complementary rail networks and business  mixes.  CSX
routes,  located  mainly in the  Southeast  and  Midwest, complement Conrail's
routes in the Midwest and Northeast.




                               Chairman's Message


Consolidating the two rail systems would create a more efficient  rail network,
enabling the combined company to improve service  quality,  reduce  costs and
attract  new  business. Expanded  rail operations  also would  benefit  other
CSX  business  units that exchange traffic with the railroad,  just as the broad
scope of CSX's multimodal transportation  services would  strengthen our
expanded rail operations and open up new markets to rail customers.

   As expected,  Norfolk Southern vigorously  contested the merger agreement and
initiated  a hostile,  competing  bid for  Conrail.  Initial  efforts to reach a
compromise with Norfolk Southern were unsuccessful. By mid-January 1997, we were
at a virtual  stalemate  - with CSX  having  acquired  just under 20% of Conrail
stock and Norfolk  Southern  purchasing  just under 10% of the company.  Further
complicating matters,  Conrail shareholders had rejected a proposal necessary to
put the proposed merger with CSX into effect.

Search for Resolution

   Then, in late-January,  Surface  Transportation  Board (STB) Chairwoman Linda
Morgan made public  statements  noting the regulatory  board's  preference for a
negotiated  and balanced  settlement of competitive  issues in rail mergers.  On
Jan. 31, CSX, Conrail and Norfolk Southern began discussions aimed at preserving
and enhancing competition and best serving the public interest. Norfolk Southern
then sent CSX and  Conrail a  proposal  that  would in  essence  equally  divide
Conrail between Norfolk Southern and CSX.

   On March 7, CSX and Conrail amended their merger agreement to increase the
price CSX will pay for each remaining share of Conrail to $115,  payable in cash
to Conrail  shareholders  by June 2, 1997. The amended agreement also allowed
CSX to enter into  negotiations  with Norfolk Southern to craft a  compromise.
We expect  those  discussions  will  lead to an  agreement between CSX and
Norfolk  Southern for a joint  purchase of Conrail and a roughly even  division
of its routes and  assets.  This  would  enable CSX and  Norfolk Southern to
file a joint  application  before the STB,  with the  ultimate  goal being two
exceptional rail systems in the East.

   This likely outcome is one we have long sought and is consistent  with our
own  position  since the  mid-1980's  when we  successfully opposed  the
acquisition  of Conrail by Norfolk  Southern.  It will result in a stronger,
more  comprehensive and competitive CSX rail system that will produce tremendous
advantages for all of CSX's constituencies.

   Our customers will benefit from faster,  more reliable  service,  more direct
single-line  routings,  an improved cost structure,  and better equipment supply
and  utilization.  Our  employees  will  benefit  from  greater  employment  and
advancement  opportunities that flow from a stronger,  growing  enterprise.  Our
shareholders   will  benefit  from   ownership  of  an  expanded   international
transportation  company with a scale and efficiency to compete more  effectively
at home and abroad.  The public and the  communities  we serve also will benefit
from lower  transportation  costs,  reduced reliance on truck-clogged  local and
interstate  highways,  and an overall improvement in the safety,  efficiency and
reliability  of  the  U.S.   transportation   system.  In  addition,   restoring
competitive  balance to the  Northeast  will help to ensure that the  regulatory
reforms that we all worked so  dilligently  to  accomplish  in the 1980s will be
preserved.

   As this process unfolds, I want to assure you that we remain committed to two
absolute objectives. First, we will make every effort to protect your investment
and generate  superior returns over the long term.  Second,  we will continue to
aggressively  pursue our long-term  strategy to maximize the performance of each
of our business units, in terms of operating income, return on invested capital
and free cash flow.

Record 1996 Results

   All of CSX's major  transportation  units  turned in strong  performances  in
1996, resulting in record consolidated results for operating revenue,  operating
income and net earnings. CSX  earned  $855  million,  or $4.00 per  share,  in
1996,  compared  with $618 million,  or $2.94 per share,  last year.  Excluding
a restructuring  charge and one-time gain recorded in 1995,  earnings per share
rose nearly 16% in 1996 from 1995's pro forma figure of $3.46. Uncertainty
surrounding the CSX/Conrail merger agreement and the competing bid from Norfolk
Southern took its toll on the performance of CSX stock in 1996. After reaching a
new high of 53 1/8 in May, CSX stock closed the year at 42 1/4, down 7.4% from
last year's close.  While disappointed by the stock's performance in 1996, we
are already seeing improvement as the Conrail situation is becoming clearer.
We expect CSX stock, over time, will more accurately reflect the company's
enhanced core earning power. We remain committed to our previously stated goal
of doubling the market value of CSX stock over the five-year period that began
in 1995.


Pro Forma Net Earnings

(Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts*)

                                    1996           1995            1994
                                 -----------   -------------    ------------
                                         Per             Per             Per
Description (All After Tax)      Amt.  Share   Amt.    Share    Amt.   Share

Net Earnings
  as Reported                    $855  $4.00   $618    $2.94    $652   $3.12

Net Gains From
  Investment
  Transactions                     --     --    (51)    (.24)    (42)   (.20)

Restructuring Charge               --     --    160      .76      --      --
                                 ----  -----   ----    -----    ----   -----
Pro Forma
Net Earnings                     $855  $4.00   $727    $3.46    $610   $2.92
                                 ====  =====   ====    =====    ====   =====

* Per-share amounts for 1995 and 1994 reflect stock split in December 1995.





                               Chairman's Message

Rail Results

   Our rail unit, CSX  Transportation  Inc. (CSXT),  turned in another excellent
year,  achieving  record  financial  results and reducing its operating ratio by
nearly a full point.

   CSXT stepped up the pace of its campaign to boost service reliability  by
intensifying   its  efforts  in  three  key  areas:   terminal improvements,
industrial switching and network operations. Progress in all three areas  is
critical  to  the  railroad's   commitment  to  achieve   operational
excellence,  which  in turn  will  allow  CSXT  to  aggressively  pursue  growth
opportunities.  The service  reliability  process produced remarkable results in
1996. For example, the terminal improvement plan initially called for upgrading
the performance of one terminal in 1996, but the results were so impressive that
the process was rolled out to 30 terminals by year-end.

   Shippers are recognizing the railroad's service reliability improvements, and
prospects for profitable growth are brighter today than ever. Without in any way
diminishing its intensive focus on reducing costs, CSXT will continue to improve
its operational  performance  and service levels in 1997,  while seeking to
maximize revenue  growth and  profitability.  These efforts put CSXT on track
for another record year in 1997.

   I am pleased to report that CSXT and the other major U.S.  freight  railroads
successfully  negotiated  five-year labor agreements in 1996. The landmark labor
contracts  were reached  without work  stoppage or  government  intervention,  a
departure from recent  national  bargaining  rounds and an  encouraging  sign of
improved labor-management relations throughout the rail industry.

   Safety  continues  to be a top  priority  at  the  railroad.  In  1996,  CSXT
continued to reduce its train  accident  rate,  and the latest  figures from the
Federal Railroad Administration place CSXT as the safest Class I railroad in the
nation in terms of train accidents. Despite dramatic improvements in safety over
the past seven years, the railroad  recognizes that much work remains to be done
to further reduce accidents and employee injuries.

Container-shipping Results

   Our  container-shipping  unit,  Sea-Land  Service Inc.  (Sea-Land),  produced
record  results  despite rate weakness in key trade lanes and higher fuel costs.
Sea-Land  capitalized on strong demand for containerized cargo and increased its
market share in every major trade lane while holding the line on expenses.  As a
result,  the company increased  operating income 34% to $318 million,  excluding
the 1995 restructuring charge.

   During  1996,   Sea-Land  and  Maersk   Lines  made   considerable   progress
implementing  their global alliance,  which will be fully operational by the end
of this year. The alliance optimizes the resources of two of the world's largest
and most respected  shipping lines,  allowing both companies to reduce costs and
improve service across their global network.

   After years of debate, the U.S. Congress passed legislation that bolsters the
U.S. merchant marine. The Maritime Security Act establishes a program to provide
participating carriers operating assistance to partially offset the higher costs
of  operating  under the U.S.  flag.  Sea-Land  has  enrolled  15 vessels in the
program and will receive $2.1 million a year for each participating vessel.








                               Chairman's Message


   The outlook for the  container-shipping  industry is improving,  with further
consolidation and government  deregulation  providing encouraging signs that the
business is responding more directly to rational  market forces.  We believe the
over-capacity that eroded the industry's  profitability  during 1996 will peak
in 1997, and we see the business fundamentals improving thereafter.

   We are encouraged by Sea-Land's  1996 results,  because they  demonstrate the
company's ability to increase earnings  substantially,  even in a difficult rate
environment.  Sea-Land came through this tough year with flying colors,  showing
the company stands at the pinnacle of its industry,  as the low-cost carrier and
leader in innovative  technology and customer service.  We are eager to show the
kind of break-out results Sea-Land can produce in a more favorable environment.

Other Transportation Results

   American  Commercial  Lines Inc. (ACL),  CSX's barge unit,  turned in another
strong  performance in 1996. The unit produced record  operating  income,  up 6%
from last year's excellent  performance,  reflecting the increased size of ACL's
barge  fleet and  robust  demand for  export  grain and other bulk  commodities.
Higher demand for steel products and expanded operations in South America also
contributed to the strong performance.

   CSX Intermodal Inc. (CSXI) responded  aggressively to stiff truck competition
that has exerted  downward  pressure on intermodal rates since 1995. The company
consolidated its headquarters in Jacksonville,  Fla., and reduced administrative
and overhead costs  significantly.  CSXI also  redesigned  its service  network,
concentrating its efforts and resources in markets that produce the best returns
and growth opportunities,  while reducing or eliminating service in lower-margin
freight lanes.  These steps enabled CSXI to increase  operating  income 17% over
last year's  results  and helped  position  the  company to achieve  significant
service improvements and higher profits in 1997.

   Customized Transportation Inc. (CTI), our fast-growing contract logistics
management company, continued to diversify its customer base, both in the United
States and abroad. Building upon its already strong reputation as a leading
provider of supply-chain management for the automotive industry, CTI expanded
its presence in non-automotive markets, including the electronics, retail and
chemical industries. Operating revenues rose 32% and operating income rose 36%,
both to record levels.

Looking to the Future

   In 1997, each of CSX's  transportation  units expects to build upon its solid
1996  performance,  and  the  result  should  be  another  record  year  for the
corporation.  We expect a continuation of the favorable economic  environment we
experienced  last year--with  modest  economic  growth and  robust  demand for
transportation services.

   As global commerce continues to evolve, we believe the increasingly  complex
distribution  requirements  of our customers  will create significant
opportunities for CSX. Our transportation units, while continuing to focus on
improving the  fundamentals of their business,  are working together to identify
segments of the transportation market where our collective capabilities can
produce  exceptional value for our customers and attractive  returns for our
shareholders.  The  results we  achieved  in 1996 by  integrating  services  for
certain global customers are encouraging. We will expand this integrated account
approach  in  1997,  positioning  CSX to  meet  the  widest  possible  range  of
customers' global transportation service needs.

   We are confident about the outlook for our business. We remain focused on
controlling  costs,  maximizing returns on invested capital and generating
strong free cash flow. At the same time, we will pursue creative strategies to
enhance CSX's  ability to meet customer  requirements  and achieve profitable
growth.  As  always,  our  efforts  are  guided  by  our  overriding commitment
to produce superior shareholder value over the long term.

Sincerely,


/s/ John W. Snow

John W. Snow
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer




                            Public Policy Statement

                           The need for business and
                           government to become more
                          efficient as we prepare for
                            the 21st century was a
                          key factor in public policy
                           debates in 1996. While we
                          expect these considerations
                          to remain in 1997, we also
                         anticipate renewed challenges
                          to decisions favorable to
                            business and economic
                                opportunity.


    In 1996 there were two events of major significance to the transportation
enterprises of CSX. The Congress and the Administration agreed on a bipartisan
basis to create a public-private partnership that will maintain and strengthen a
fleet of merchant ships  operating under U.S. flag with U.S. crews. To  maintain
strategic  sealift  capability,  ships  enrolled  in the  Maritime Security
Program will receive an annual payment that will enable them to compete with
foreign-flagged  ships. Sea-Land has 15 ships signed up for the program and will
receive  annual  payments of $31.5 million for making its highly  efficient
maritime  logistics  network  available  to the  U.S.  government  in  times  of
emergency.

    The Surface  Transportation  Board, the successor to the Interstate Commerce
Commission,  handed  down a  landmark  decision  in the  Union  Pacific-Southern
Pacific merger case,  whose  principles  made it possible for CSX and Conrail to
enter into  agreement  on a strategic,  friendly  merger.  The Board's  decision
affirmed  the goals of the Staggers  Rail Act of 1980,  which sought to free the
railroads from the stranglehold of regulation and to operate as other businesses
do. This matter is discussed more extensively in the Chairman's message.

    The  relation  of  government  to the  maritime  industry  will be a central
transportation  issue in the 105th  Congress.  In 1995, an important step toward
less regulation of ocean shipping was taken when the Congress directed the Coast
Guard to reduce  regulations that today place American carriers at a competitive
disadvantage to foreign carriers. With this new authority,  the Coast Guard will
be able to conform U.S.-vessel standards to the same international  standards by
which the vessels of other nations are evaluated.

    CSX and Sea-Land have supported a staged reduction in the economic
regulation of U.S. container-shipping lines and pressed for reform of the
Shipping Act of 1984.  While Congress is expected to take up these needed
changes  again,  they have aroused  strong  opposition  from some ports, foreign
shipping lines and labor unions. At the same time, advocates for foreign
carriers may use the goal of  "deregulation"  to further their  efforts to gain
access to  America's  domestic  waterborne  commerce  by seeking  repeal of the
Jones Act.  U.S.-flag  carriers,  which serve U.S.  ports under the terms of the
Jones Act,  should not be forced to compete  with foreign carriers  that enjoy
similar  protection  in their  countries and do not have to comply with the
basic wage, tax, safety and health laws of the United States.

    A new attempt will be made in this  Congress to enact  legislation  to carry
out the provisions of an international agreement ending ship subsidies by
foreign governments to their national shipyards. An important element of the
agreement is the ending of the 50% duty U.S. ships must pay on repairs done in
overseas shipyards. We support efforts to make U.S. shipyards competitive in the
world marketplace and to eliminate unfair burdens on U.S. ships.

    While the central  rail issue for CSX in 1997 will  obviously  be  resolving
issues  surrounding  Conrail,  other pressing issues will affect the entire rail
industry.  Mergers may well be used as an excuse by shipper groups and others to
seek new regulation of railroads and to roll back the  regulatory  freedoms that
have brought about the renaissance of railroads. This effort may include seeking
to require  railroads to allow other  carriers to operate  over their lines.  To
allow railroads  access to the rail lines of their  competitors  would require a
whole new set of regulatory  actions to establish the terms and  conditions  and
the rates for this use.

    The  safety  of  railroads,   already  tightly   regulated  by  the  federal
government,   may  again  become  an  issue  when  the  Congress  takes  up  the
reauthorization of the Rail Safety Act. A series of highly publicized train
accidents  at the  beginning  of 1996 cast a shadow  over the  industry's
excellent  record of improving  safety.  CSX continues to believe that requiring
railroads to meet performance  standards for safety brings more positive results
than the current command and control system. The most serious safety problem for
the rail industry and the public remains rail-highway grade crossings.  CSX will
join with the rest of the industry in seeking the cooperation of federal,  state
and local governments to solve this persistent problem.

    As an international transportation company, CSX will continue to support
decisions  by the  Congress  and the  administration  that will  foster greater
economic growth and greater freedom from regulation in the domestic and the
world marketplace. We remain committed to fair and open trade, to a balanced
federal budget,  to a more equitable and simpler tax system and to the goal of a
smaller, more efficient government.




                                Financial Policy

A Message to Shareholders on CSX's Financial Principles

   The management of CSX Corporation is dedicated to reporting the company's
financial condition and results of operations in accurate, timely and
conservative  manner in order to give  shareholders all the information they
need  to  make  decisions  about  investment  in the company. CSX management
also strives to present to shareholders a clear picture of the company's
financial objectives and the principles that guide its employees in achieving
those objectives.

   In  this  section,  financial  information  is  presented  to  assist  you in
understanding the sources of earnings and financial resources of the company and
the contributions of the major business units. In addition,  certain information
needed to meet the Securities and Exchange  Commission's  Form 10-K requirements
has been included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   The key  objective of CSX is to increase  shareholder  value by improving the
return on capital  invested in its businesses and maximizing free cash flow. The
company  defines  "free  cash  flow" as the  amount of cash  available  for debt
service and other purposes  generated by operating  activities  after  deducting
capital expenditures, present value of new leases and cash dividends. To achieve
these  goals,  managers  utilize the  following  guidelines  in  conducting  the
financial activities of the company:

Capital - CSX business units are expected to earn returns on capital in excess
of the CSX cost of capital.  Business  units that do not earn above the CSX cost
of capital  and do not  generate  an  adequate  level  of free  cash  flow  over
an appropriate period of time will be evaluated for sale or other disposition.

Taxes - CSX will pursue all  available  opportunities  to pay the lowest
federal, state and foreign taxes, consistent with applicable laws and
regulations and the company's  obligation to carry a fair share of the cost of
government.  CSX also works through the legislative process for lower tax rates.

Debt ratings - The company  will strive to  maintain  its  investment  grade
debt ratings, which allow cost-effective access to major  financial  markets
worldwide.  The  company  will work to manage its business  operations  in  a
manner  consistent  with  meeting  this  objective, including monitoring its
debt levels and the amount of fixed charges it incurs.

Financial  instruments - From  time to time  the  company  may  employ
financial instruments as part of its risk  management  program.  The objective
would be to manage  specific  risks and  exposures  and not to trade  financial
instruments actively for profit or loss.

Dividends - The cash  dividend is reviewed  regularly in the context of
inflation and competitive  dividend yields. The dividend may be increased
periodically if cash flow  projections  and  reinvestment  opportunities  show
the higher payout level will best benefit shareholders.

   The company cannot always  guarantee that its goals will be met,  despite its
best efforts.  For example,  revenue and operating  expenses are affected by the
state of the  economy  both in general  and in the  industries  it  serves,  and
changes in regulatory policy can drastically  change the cost and feasibility of
certain company operations.  The impact of factors such as these, along with the
uncertainty inherently involved in predicting future events, should be carefully
borne  in  mind  when  reading  company  projections  or  other  forward-looking
statements in this report.

Management's Responsibility for Financial Reporting

   The consolidated  financial  statements of CSX Corporation have been prepared
by  management,  which is  responsible  for  their  content  and  accuracy.  The
statements present the results of operations,  cash flows and financial position
of the company in conformity with generally accepted accounting  principles and,
accordingly, include amounts based on management's judgments and estimates.

   CSX and its  subsidiaries  maintain  internal  controls  designed  to provide
reasonable  assurance  that assets are  safeguarded  and that  transactions  are
properly  authorized by management  and recorded in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles.  Controls include  accounting  tests,  written
policies and procedures and a code of corporate conduct  routinely  communicated
to all  employees.  An internal  audit staff  monitors  compliance  with and the
effectiveness of established policies and procedures.

   The Audit  Committee of the board of directors,  which is composed  solely of
outside directors, meets periodically with management, internal auditors and the
independent  auditors to review audit findings,  adherence to corporate policies
and  other  financial  matters.  The  firm of  Ernst &  Young  LLP,  independent
auditors,  has been  engaged to audit and report on the  company's  consolidated
financial  statements.  Its audit was  conducted in  accordance  with  generally
accepted  auditing  standards  and  included  a review  of  internal  accounting
controls to the extent  deemed  necessary  for the purpose of its report,  which
appears on page 42.




                             Analysis of Operations


                          CSX Corporation is a leader
                        in providing multimodal freight
                transportation and contract logistics services
                    around the world. The company's focus,
                   advanced at each of its business units,
                  is on providing customers with efficient,
                 competitive transportation and related trade
                   services and delivering superior value
                            to CSX shareholders.


                           Average Return on Equity
                                  (Percent)

                                   [GRAPH]

                 '92        '93       '94       '95       '96
                  0.7       11.7      18.6      15.5      18.9

               *Excluding after-tax productivity/restructuring
                charges and the impact of the 1993 tax-rate
                increase, return on equity in 1992, 1993 and 1995
                would have been 13.3%, 14.0% and 19.1%, respectively.

CSX Transportation Inc.

CSXT is a major eastern railroad, providing  rail freight  transportation  and
distribution  services over 18,504 route  miles of track in 20  states  in the
East,  Midwest  and  South;  and in Ontario,  Canada.  CSXT  accounted for 47%
of CSX's  operating  revenue,  74% of operating income and 63% of invested
capital in 1996.

Sea-Land Service Inc.

Sea-Land is a worldwide leader in container-shipping transportation and
logistics services. The carrier operates a fleet of 99 container ships and
approximately 208,000 containers in U.S. and foreign trade and serves 120 ports.
In addition, Sea-Land operates 28 marine terminal facilities across its global
network. Sea-Land accounted for 38% of CSX's operating revenue, 21% of operating
income and 19% of invested capital in 1996.

American Commercial Lines Inc.

ACL is the nation's leader in barge transportation,  operating  137  towboats
and more than 3,700 barges on U.S. and South American waterways. ACL accounted
for 6% of CSX's operating revenue, 7% of operating income and 4% of invested
capital in 1996.

CSX Intermodal Inc.

CSXI provides transcontinental intermodal transportation services and operates a
network  of  dedicated   intermodal facilities  across  North  America.   CSXI
contributed 6% of CSX's operating revenue and 2% of operating income in 1996.

Customized Transportation Inc.

CTI is a provider of contract logistics, distribution, warehousing, assembly and
just-in-time delivery services. In 1996, CTI provided 3% of CSX's operating
revenue and 1% of operating income.

Non-transportation

Resort holdings include the Mobil Five-Star and AAA Five-Diamond hotel, The
Greenbrier  in White  Sulphur  Springs,  W.Va.,  and the Grand  Teton Lodge
Company in Moran, Wyo. CSX Real Property Inc. is responsible for sales,  leasing
and development of CSX-owned properties.  CSX holds a majority interest in Yukon
Pacific  Corporation,  which is promoting  construction of the  Trans-Alaska Gas
System to  transport  Alaska's  North Slope  natural gas to Valdez for export to
Asian markets.



                            Analysis of Operations

                           Average Return on Assets
                                  (Percent)

                                   [GRAPH]

                '92       '93        '94        '95       '96
                0.2       2.7        4.8        4.4       5.9

               *Excluding after-tax productivity/restructuring
                charges and the impact of the 1993 tax-rate
                increase, return on assets in 1992, 1993 and 1995
                would have been 3.6%, 3.6% and 5.6%, respectively.


                         Cash Provided by Operations
                            (Millions of Dollars)

                                   [GRAPH]

                '92      '93         '94       '95        '96
                $939    $962       $1,326     $1,567    $1,440





                            Fixed Charge Coverage

                                   [GRAPH]

                 '92     '93         '94        '95        '96
                 1.0     2.3         3.1        3.2        4.0


            *Excluding after-tax productivity/restructuring charges,
             fixed charge coverage in 1992, 1993 and 1995 would have
             been 2.5x, 2.5x and 3.7x, respectively.



                      CSX had excellent results in 1996.
                    The company posted another record year
                     while overcoming  several challenges,
                 including:  severe  winter conditions, which
                   affected first-quarter rail operations;
                   rate pressures in several of Sea-Land's
                     major trade lanes; and higher-than-
                   expected fuel prices experienced by all 
                    units. Modest revenue gains, combined
                     with continued cost-control efforts,
                  contributed to a 10% increase in operating
                   income, excluding the 1995 restructuring
                 charge.  The railroad controlled costs while
                     benefiting from strength in several
                  commodities and selective price increases.
                      Sea-Land achieved record results by
                  offsetting rate pressures with cost-cutting
                       measures and market-share gains.


Discussion of Earnings

    Net earnings in 1996 totaled $855 million,  $4.00 per share, compared with
$618 million, $2.94 per share, in 1995, and $652 million, $3.12 per share, in
1994.

    The 1995 net earnings included the effect of a second-quarter restructuring
charge to recognize CSXT's write-down of obsolete telecommunications assets and
related employee-separation costs. The charge also included the cost of
reflagging  five  Sea-Land  vessels and the  consolidation  of its corporate and
divisional headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. The 1995 results included a gain from
the issuance of an equity interest in a Sea-Land terminal and related operations
in Asia. Earnings for 1994 included the accelerated recognition of the remaining
gain on a 1988 sale of track in south Florida.

    Consolidated operating revenue increased $232 million, 2% above 1995. CSXT
contributed $90 million of the additional  revenue,  largely resulting from
strong performances by its coal and auto business units. Sea-Land generated $43
million of the revenue increase, due to higher  volumes in major trade lanes.
ACL produced $68 million in additional revenue,  primarily  due to  continued
strong  demand for export  grain and the acquisition of Conti-Carriers &
Terminals Inc.

    In 1995,  operating  revenue increased  $895  million,  or 10%, over 1994's
results. Sea-Land contributed $516 million of the additional revenue,  resulting
from higher volumes in its major trade lanes and moderate rate  increases.  CSXT
generated  $194  million of the revenue  increase,  due to improved  pricing and
merchandise  traffic mix.  ACL produced  $105  million in  additional  revenue,
capitalizing on strong international demand for U.S. grain.

All 1995 and 1994 per-share amounts in the text have been adjusted to reflect
the 2-for-1 stock split that occured in the fourth quarter of 1995.




                               Analysis of Operations


    In 1996,  all CSX units  continued their  efforts to control  costs through
performance improvement  initiatives. Consolidated  operating  expense in 1996
decreased $164  million  from 1995, which  included  the $257  million  pretax
restructuring  charge incurred by CSXT and Sea-Land.  Operating  expense in 1995
was $951 million higher than the 1994 level, primarily due to the restructuring
charge and higher volumes.

    Consolidated operating income for 1996 was $1.5 billion, compared with $1.1
billion in 1995 and $1.2 billion in 1994. Absent the restructuring  charge, 1995
operating income would have been $1.4 billion.

    Other income totaled $43 million, compared  with $118  million in 1995 and
$105 million in 1994.  In 1995,  other income  included a $77 million  pretax
net investment  gain,  primarily from the issuance  of an equity  interest  in a
Sea-Land  terminal  facility  and related operations in Asia. In 1994,  other
income included the $69 million  accelerated pretax gain on the sale of track in
south Florida.

Discussion of Cash Flows

    Cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.4 billion in 1996, compared
with $1.6 billion in 1995 and $1.3 billion in 1994.  Cash  provided by operating
activities was adequate to fund net property  investments  and cash dividends in
1996, 1995 and 1994. In addition,  CSX funded scheduled  long-term debt payments
of $486  million,  $343  million  and  $447  million  in 1996,  1995  and  1994,
respectively.

    Payments  related  to  the  1991/92   productivity   charge  covering  labor
agreements providing for two-member train crews and payments provided for in the
1995 restructuring charge affected cash provided by operations.  The company has
paid $940 million related to these  productivity  and  restructuring  charges to
date, $88 million of which was in 1996.

    CSX continues to emphasize asset utilization and capital productivity.
Capital  investments  were $1.2  billion in 1996 and 1995,  and $875  million in
1994.






(a) A portion  of  intercompany  interest  income  received from the  CSX
    parent company has been classified as a reduction of Materials, Supplies &
    Other by the  container-shipping  unit. This amount was $64 million,  $65
    million and $64 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and the
    corresponding charge is included in Eliminations/Other.

(b) Excludes restructuring charge.

(c) Intermodal results for 1995 and 1994 were restated to conform
    to the 1996 presentation. Beginning in 1996, the container-shipping
    unit assumed primary responsibility for direct purchase of transportation
    from non-affiliated rail carriers. Prior to 1996, the intermodal unit
    purchased these services for the container-shipping unit.





                           Analysis of Operations



    Cash dividends per common share were $1.04,  compared with 92 cents in 1995
and 88 cents in 1994.

    In 1997,  the company  expects its  operations to continue generating
significant cash flow to fund working capital requirements,  capital
expenditures, debt repayment and dividends. Cash flow for 1997 also will be
affected  by the  proposed  Conrail  Acquisition  (see  right column).

Discussion of Financial Position

    Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $682 million at
Dec. 27, 1996, vs. $660 million at Dec. 29, 1995.

    The working  capital deficit  decreased $371 million during 1996,  primarily
due to lower current  maturities of long-term  debt.  The company had a year-end
working capital deficit of $685 million in 1996,  compared with $1.06 billion in
1995.

    A working  capital  deficit is not unusual  for CSX and does not  indicate a
lack  of  liquidity.   CSX  maintains  adequate  resources  to  satisfy  current
liabilities  when they are due and has sufficient  financial  capacity to manage
its day-to-day cash requirements.

    Long-term  debt increased $2.1 billion from 1995 to $4.3 billion at Dec. 27,
1996,  primarily  due to  borrowings  to finance the  company's  acquisition  of
approximately 19.9% of Conrail's  outstanding shares in November.  (See "Conrail
Acquisition," right column.)

    The 1996 ratio of debt-to-total capitalization increased to 46% from 34% in
1995.

Conrail Acquisition

    CSX is  negotiating  the final  details  of a  transaction  to  combine  key
components  of  the  current  Conrail  Inc.  operations  into  the  CSX  system.
Discussions with Norfolk Southern  Corporation are expected to lead to a roughly
equal  division  of the Conrail  system  between  the two  remaining  major rail
carriers in the East.  The broad  increase in geographic  scope the  acquisition
will bring will be a  significant  advantage  to CSX,  creating  the  ability to
enhance revenues through improved service and efficiency following operational
integration.

    The  final  terms of the  acquisition  will  remain  subject  to a number of
conditions and approvals, including approval by the Surface Transportation Board
(STB),  which has the authority to modify  contract terms and impose  additional
conditions.  As a result,  the  assumptions  made in this analysis of operations
concerning key items such as the definitive form of the transaction,  its likely
timing,  and the future  operations of the combined system all involve forecasts
and estimates about future events. These forecasts and estimates are subject not
only to the usual  uncertainty  involved  in  predicting  the  effects of future
economic  conditions,  but also the  outcome  of the  current  negotiations  and
extensive regulatory proceedings.







    Prior to the current  negotiations,  CSX and Conrail had agreed on Oct. 14,
1996, to a strategic merger in which a good deal of Conrail assets would have
been  retained in the  combined CSX/Conrail entity, although  CSX believed
concessions would have to be made. This combination, not unexpectedly, was
challenged by customers and others, including Norfolk Southern, which announced
a conditional all-cash offer for Conrail shares at a price that eventually rose
to $115 per share.

    As a first step toward completion of that proposed merger, CSX consummated a
tender offer for 19.9% of the  outstanding  Conrail stock on Nov. 20, 1996,  for
$110 in cash per share, or about $2 billion.

    On Dec. 6, 1996, CSX commenced a second offer,  also at $110 cash per share,
which would have brought its total  holdings to 40% of the  outstanding  Conrail
shares.  This second offer was conditioned on a vote by Conrail  shareholders to
allow Conrail to opt out of a Pennsylvania statute that would otherwise preclude
CSX from holding 20% or more of its outstanding shares.

    On  Jan.  17,  1997,  Conrail's  shareholders  voted  against  the  opt-out,
preventing  CSX from  acquiring the additional  shares.  This event,  along with
public comments on competition and the preference for a negotiated settlement of
competitive  issues from the  Chairwoman of the STB,  prompted CSX,  Conrail and
Norfolk Southern to commence  discussions aimed at resolving those issues. Those
discussions  led  to  the  current  proposed  structure,  in  which  all  of the
outstanding  shares of Conrail will be acquired for cash at $115 per share, with
roughly half of the system to be shared with Norfolk Southern.  This will result
in  both  CSX and  Norfolk  Southern  having  vital  access  to  markets  in the
Northeast,  and will achieve the goal of maintaining a balanced competitive rail
market in the East.

    The exercise of actual control over Conrail or any of its rail operations by
either CSX or Norfolk Southern is not legally permitted until an order is issued
by the STB.  In the  meantime,  the shares of  Conrail  will be held in a voting
trust.

    CSX arranged a five-year, $4.8 billion bank credit facility in November 1996
to finance the Conrail  transaction and meet general working capital needs. This
credit  facility is  expected to be modified  once the final form of the Conrail
acquisition is determined. A significant portion of the related commercial paper
and other  borrowings used to purchase  Conrail shares in 1996 is intended to be
replaced with long-term debt once the acquisition is completed.

    At the end of 1996,  CSX held 19.9% of Conrail stock  purchased  through the
first tender offer.  Under applicable  accounting  rules, this minority interest
was accounted  for under the cost method as an  investment in an  unconsolidated
subsidiary. The method of accounting applicable to CSX holdings of Conrail stock
for future  periods may differ,  based on the timing and final  structure of the
related transactions.

    Management  believes that approval and  completion of the  combination  will
result in growth of the rail  revenue  base  through  expansion  of  single-line
service, and the company's ability to compete more effectively on certain routes
along which large quantities of goods are now transported by truck.  Single-line
service is  preferred  by  shippers  over  joint-line  service  because of lower
transaction costs,  reduced delays, less damage from interchange  operations and
single-carrier accountability.

    The  addition  of  Conrail  lines  to the  CSX  network  also  will  improve
operational  efficiency through better asset utilization.  Optimization of train
sizes, increased length of haul, shorter routes to many destinations and reduced
empty  movements all could be expected to drive cost reductions for the combined
rail networks.

    Because of the time needed to obtain needed regulatory and other approvals,
the company does not expect  integrated  operations of the two companies to have
an effect on fiscal  periods  before  1998.  The primary  impact of the proposed
transaction prior to the integration of operations is likely to be the after-tax
effect on both  earnings  and cash flows of interest on debt used to acquire and
hold Conrail shares, partially offset by Conrail dividends. The average interest
rate on this debt in 1996 was  approximately  6%. The degree of negative  impact
during 1997 will depend on the specific timing of related transactions.




                             ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

Other Matters

    Environmental management is an important  part of CSX's  business  planning.
CSX  focuses on finding  the most efficient, cost-effective solutions for
dealing responsibly with waste materials generated from past and present
business operations. The solutions range from simple recycling to sophisticated
remediation.
    The  company  is a party to  numerous  regulatory  proceedings  and  private
actions.  These  arise  from laws  governing  the  remediation  of  contaminated
property, such as the federal Superfund statute, hazardous waste and underground
storage tank laws, and similar state and local statutes.
    The rail unit has been identified, together with other parties,  as a
potentially  responsible party in a number of governmental  investigations  and
actions relating to  environmentally  impaired sites.  Such sites  frequently
involve  other  waste  generators  and  disposal companies  that  may  pay  some
or all  of  such  costs  associated  with  site investigation and cleanup or
from whom such costs may be recovered.
    The wide range of costs of possible remediation alternatives,  changing
cleanup technology,  the length of time over which  these  matters  develop  and
evolving  governmental  standards  make  it impossible to estimate precisely the
company's potential liability for the costs associated with the assessment and
remediation of contaminated sites.
    The rail unit has identified and maintains  reserves for  approximately  270
sites at which  the  company  is or may be liable  for  remediation  costs.  The
company  reviews its  environmental  reserves at least  quarterly  to  determine
whether additional provisions are necessary.  Based on current information,  the
company  believes  its reserves  are  adequate to meet  remedial  actions and to
comply with present laws and regulations. Although CSX's financial results could
be significantly affected in any quarterly reporting period in which the company
incurred substantial remedial expenses at a number of these and other sites, CSX
believes the ultimate liability for these matters will not materially affect its
overall results of operations and financial condition.
    Total expenditures associated with protecting the environment and remedial
environmental cleanup and monitoring efforts  amounted to $44 million in 1996.
This compares with $43 million in 1995 and $39 million in 1994.  During  1997,
the company  expects to incur  remedial environmental expenditures in the range
of $40 to $50 million.
    The  company  and  its  subsidiaries  are  subject  to  a  number  of  legal
proceedings and potential  actions in addition to those related to environmental
issues.  Based upon  information  currently  available,  these  actions  are not
expected  to have a  materially  adverse  impact on  results  of  operations  or
financial condition of the company.
    CSX employs risk management strategies  to address  business and financial
market  risks,  but there are no significant  hedging  or  derivative  financial
instruments  used  in its  risk management program. The company may alter this
position in response to evolving  business and market conditions.
    Financial management periodically assesses the interest rate sensitivity of
its portfolio of investments and borrowings, and may use financial instruments
to manage the net interest exposure.
    Management  monitors  fuel  oil  prices  for  volatility.  It also  monitors
fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in foreign exchange markets.  While
the company is not currently hedging these risks with financial instruments,  on
occasion it may do so. CSX's objective in employing such strategies  would be to
manage  operating  risks  and  exposures,  not to  trade  financial  instruments
actively.

Rail Results

    CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT) posted record operating income in 1996, up 6%
from 1995 and 21% from 1994, excluding  the  charge  in  1995.  The  results are
primarily  due  to  strong performances  by the coal and auto  business  units,
continued  selective  rate increases and ongoing cost-control efforts.
    Improved pricing and volume strength  combined to produce  operating revenue
of $4.9 billion, a 2% increase over 1995 and a 6% increase over 1994.
    Shipments of coal,  CSXT's major  commodity,  remained  strong in 1996, with
total coal volume  increasing  to 163.6  million tons vs. 158.5  million tons in
1995 and 153.7 million tons in 1994.

                             RAIL OPERATING REVENUE
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '92      '93      '94     '95      '96
                   $4,434   $4,380   $4,625   $4,819   $4,909




                             ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

    Total  merchandise  traffic of 2.9 million carloads remained level with 1995
and increased 4% over 1994.
    Chemical  traffic  remained  strong,   due  to  steady  demand  for  plastic
production.  Traffic  remained  steady with 1995's  level and  increased 6% over
1994.
    Driven  by  strong  demand  for  trucks  and  sport  utility  vehicles,  the
automotive  market  experienced a 3% increase in carloads and a like increase in
revenues in 1996.
    A late harvest  caused  grain  shipments to be less robust than in the prior
year.  This  resulted in a 9% decrease in carloads and a 4% decrease in revenues
for agricultural  products.  Compared with 1994,  carloads in 1996 decreased 3%,
while revenue rose 2%.
    Demand for  phosphates and fertilizer  remained  solid.  Carloads were level
with 1995,  while  revenue  decreased  1%. This  compares  with a 9% increase in
carloads and a 10% increase in revenue over 1994.

Rail Commodities by Carload

                                   Carloads                      Revenue
                                  (Thousands)             (Millions of Dollars)
                             ---------------------    -------------------------
                             1996    1995     1994       1996     1995     1994
                             ---------------------    -------------------------
Automobiles                   367     357      354    $   520  $   503  $   493
Chemicals                     408     406      386        719      700      685
Minerals                      428     414      419        379      375      365
Food & Consumer               167     179      176        199      207      204
Agricultural Products         254     280      263        323      336      318
Metals                        277     301      292        290      291      285
Forest Products               443     456      442        472      464      444
Phosphates & Fertilizer       511     512      470        279      282      254
Coal                        1,711   1,678    1,678      1,584    1,523    1,465
                            ----------------------      -----------------------
   Total                    4,566   4,583    4,480      4,765    4,681    4,513
                            ======================
Other Revenue                                             144      138      112
                                                       ------------------------
   Total Operating Revenue                             $4,909   $4,819   $4,625
                                                       ========================



    Throughout the year,  CSXT  continued its emphasis on cost control.  Despite
bad weather  earlier in the first quarter and a 20% rise in the average price of
diesel fuel, rail operating  expense rose only 1% over 1995,  excluding the 1995
second-quarter charge, and 2% over 1994. On that basis, the railroad lowered its
operating ratio (the ratio of operating expense to operating revenue) from 77.9%
to 77.0% -- a record for the unit.
    The  ongoing  efforts of the unit's  Performance  Improvement  Teams  (PITs)
resulted  in cost  savings  of more  than $106  million.  PIT  initiatives  also
resulted in more  cost-effective  procedures for  locomotive and car repair,  as
well as maintenance of way.
    Labor and fringe benefits expense increased 2% to $1.88  billion,  vs. $1.85
billion in 1995 and $1.83 billion in 1994.  Rail  management  successfully
negotiated,  without  a  strike,  a union contract that provides for competitive
increases in labor and fringe  benefits over the next five years.

Rail Assets
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 27, 1996

Freight Cars
  Box Cars                      14,872
  Open-Top Hoppers              24,760
  Covered Hoppers               18,248
  Gondolas                      24,533
  Other Cars                    15,379
                                ------
    Total                       97,792
                                ======
Locomotives                      2,781

Track
  Route Miles                   18,504
  Track Miles                   31,365
                                      

    Safety  continues  to be a top priority at CSXT.  During 1996,  the railroad
reduced train accidents 3% over 1995, and the latest published  figures from the
Federal  Railroad  Administration  place  CSXT as the  safest  Class  I  freight
railroad in the nation.  Employee  safety  performance  in 1996 dipped  slightly
compared with 1995's record year. While zero injuries continues to be the
ultimate  goal,  employees  have made  tremendous  gains by reducing personal
injuries by 79% over the past seven years.
    Of equal  importance  is CSXT's  emphasis  on public  safety.  In 1996,  the
railroad  continued its industry  leadership in the area of  rail-highway  grade
crossing  safety,  where the number of  collisions  dropped 23%.  This  dramatic
improvement is attributed to two factors:  public  education and the elimination
of unneeded crossings. CSXT employees delivered hundreds of presentations during
1996 to raise the motoring public's awareness of crossing safety.




                             ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

                             RAIL OPERATING EXPENSE
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                     '92      '93     '94      '95      '96
                   $4,313   $3,634   $3,696   $3,951   $3,782

Productivity/restructuring charges in 1992 and 1995 were $619 million and $196
million, respectively.

    These public education  efforts touched thousands of lives throughout CSXT's
20-state system, ranging from school children to school bus and commercial truck
drivers. In addition,  more than 500 redundant or unneeded crossings were
eliminated last year.
    Greater asset utilization in 1996 enhanced CSXT's continued efforts to
constrain capital expenditures. Rail capital additions were $764 million in 1996
vs. $765 million in 1995 and $641 million in 1994. In 1996, CSXT took delivery
of 138 new fuel-efficient  4,400-horsepower AC locomotives,  each of which has
the power of two older units. CSXT became the first  railroad in North America
to place into service the new  6,000-horsepower AC model,  the world's most
powerful  single-engine  locomotive.  The company is presently testing three
AC6000s in anticipation of taking delivery of 50 more in 1997.  As of year-end
1996,  CSXT's fleet of  approximately  2,800  locomotives included 255 AC units.
    CSXT  expects  continued  earnings  growth in 1997,  with modest  volume and
revenue increases across its major lines of business. The unit will continue its
focus on  becoming  a High  Performance  Organization,  which  involves  process
re-engineering  of core  operations.  In particular,  the railroad will continue
improving  terminal   throughput  to  optimize  asset  utilization  and  on-time
performance.  Thirty terminals were  re-engineered in 1996, and 24 are scheduled
to be completed by mid-1997. In addition, the unit will continue its emphasis on
cutting costs and achieving profitable growth.

Container-shipping Results

    Intensified   rate   competition   in  major  trade  lanes  and   short-term
over-capacity made 1996 a challenging year for the container-shipping  industry.
In spite of a difficult pricing  environment,  Sea-Land Service Inc.  (Sea-Land)
capitalized  on increasing  global demand for  containerized  cargo and grew its
market  share in every  major  trade lane  while  improving  its cargo mix.  The
carrier  also  enjoyed  one of the  best  utilization  rates  in the  container-
shipping industry.
    Sea-Land  generated  $318  million of  operating  income in 1996,  vs.  $238
million in 1995, excluding its portion of the 1995 second-quarter  restructuring
charge. In 1994, Sea-Land generated $187 million in operating income.
    Volume  increased  to 1.5 million  loads,  7% over 1995's  level,  driven by
continued  strong  demand and market  share gains in  virtually  all major trade
lanes. In 1994, volume totaled 1.3 million loads.
    Total operating revenue increased to $4.1 billion, a 1% increase over 1995's
revenue and 16% higher than in 1994.
    Average revenue per container fell 5%, reflecting higher capacity in major
trade lanes, particularly Asia-Middle East-Europe  and  Eastbound  Pacific.
However,  Sea-Land  was more than able to mitigate the effects of a difficult
rate  environment  through  increased volume and effective cost-cutting
measures.
    Sea-Land's  operating  expense declined to $3.7 billion from $3.8 billion in
1995,  excluding that year's  restructuring  charge. In 1994,  operating expense
totaled  $3.3  billion.  The unit  improved  its  operating  ratio  through  its
continued emphasis on cost containment and productivity improvement.
    In 1996, Sea-Land eliminated operating expenses of $136 million through the
efforts of its cost-intervention  teams, which targeted improvements in terminal
and vessel operations,  inland transportation and network management. The teams'
recommendations  include both short-term  tactical  considerations and long-term
strategic  goals.  The  intervention   teams  expect  to  achieve   productivity
improvements of similar magnitude in 1997.

                               CONTAINER-SHIPPING
                               OPERATING REVENUE
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                    '92      '93      '94      '95      '96
                   $3,148   $3,246   $3,492   $4,008   $4,051




                             ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS

    After six years of discussion and debate,  the U.S.  Congress passed the
Maritime  Security Act by an overwhelming margin.  This  shipping  bill
establishes  a program to  provide  participating carriers  with $1 billion in
operating  assistance  over 10 years to help offset the higher  environmental,
safety and wage costs of  operating  as a  U.S.-flag carrier. Sea-Land has
applied to the program, and the government has accepted 15 of its  ships.
Sea-Land  will  receive  $2.1  million  a  year  for  each  ship participating
in the program.
    Implementation of the global alliance with the Danish shipping line Maersk
began in the third quarter of 1996. A revised vessel network plan, incorporating
163 vessels and 348,000 TEUs (20-foot equivalent units) of container  capacity,
provides improved frequency and scope of  service  within the major  sectors of
Sea-Land's  global  network.  Several million  dollars of  cost-reduction
benefits  have been realized as a result of terminal  and   equipment
rationalization   programs.   Other   cost-reduction opportunities  have been
identified and targeted for  implementation in 1997 and beyond.

                               CONTAINER-SHIPPING
                                  LOAD VOLUME
                                  (Thousands)

                                    [GRAPH]

                      '92     '93     '94     '95      '96
                     1,150   1,180   1,288   1,442    1,541


Container-shipping Assets
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 27, 1996

Containers
  40- and 20-foot Dry Vans     174,941
  45-foot Dry Vans              10,505
  Refrigerated Vans             18,495
  Other Specialized Equipment    4,460
                               -------
    Total                      208,401
                               =======
Chassis                         70,075
Container Ships                     99

Terminals
  Exclusive-Use                     14
  Preferential Berthing Rights      14
                               

    Capital expenditures in 1996 included $252 million for new asset deployments
and $55 million for containers  formerly  leased.  The new deployments  included
vessels,  terminal  property and  equipment and systems  enhancements.  The 1996
expenditures compare with $269 million in 1995 and $133 million in 1994.
    In 1997,  the growth in global  trade is  expected  to continue at a healthy
rate,  although a difficult  rate  environment  is expected to persist.  Overall
capacity is  anticipated  to increase at a pace slightly ahead of market growth.
Within the competitive  arena, it is anticipated  that a realignment of existing
alliances between various shipping lines will occur.  Additional  mergers within
the industry also remain a possibility.
    Sea-Land  will  continue   meeting  the   challenges  of  a  difficult  rate
environment   with  continued   emphasis  on   controlling   costs  through  its
intervention teams and performance improvement initiatives. The unit also will
continue its efforts to gain market share in the more profitable market segments
by focusing on the changing needs of shippers. Improving the mix of higher
margin freight will remain an ongoing priority.

Barge Results

    The 1996 operating income of $112 million at American  Commercial Lines Inc.
(ACL)  topped last year's  record by 6%. The 1996  results  were 78% higher than
1994's  operating  income.  Key factors for 1996's  excellent  performance  were
continued  strong  demand for export  grain and other bulk  commodities  and the
acquisition  of the marine assets of  Conti-Carriers  & Terminals  Inc.  (CCTI),
which increased ACL's fleet size by 400 barges and eight towboats.

    Total operating revenue at ACL increased  12% to $622  million,  compared
with $554  million  in 1995 and $449 million in 1994.  Barge ton miles  totaled
55.8  billion,  an  increase  of 3.6 billion over 1995 and 4.5 billion over
1994.

                            Barge Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                      '92     '93     '94     '95     '96

                      $433    $417    $449    $554    $622




                             Analysis of Operations

Barge Assets
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 27, 1996

Towboats                           137

Barges
  Covered/Open-Top Hoppers       3,481
  Tankers                          237
                                 -----

   Total                         3,718
                                 =====

Marine Services
  River Terminals                   11
  Fleet Operations                  17
  Shipyards                          2
                                       

    The CCTI  acquisition,  completed  in January  1996,  has been  successfully
integrated into ACL's operations,  delivering higher revenues to ACL and savings
to customers. This acquisition is an excellent example of a customer outsourcing
its  barging  functions,  creating a  "win-win"  situation  for both ACL and the
customer.

    Demand for non-grain commodities, such as import steel and raw materials for
steel mini-mills,  remained strong,  resulting in better backhaul  opportunities
from the Gulf of Mexico.

    Coal tonnage and revenue  decreased during the year as the company continued
to shift equipment into higher-margin markets.

    Operating expense increased 14% to $510 million, primarily due to additional
volumes  and  higher  fuel  prices.   Fuel  price  per  gallon   increased  24%,
representing an additional $11 million in expense over 1995.

    ACL remains  focused on continuous  improvement  to reduce  operating  costs
through  the  quality   improvement   process.   Performance   Improvement  Team
initiatives generated approximately $4 million in annualized savings in 1996 and
have targeted additional savings for 1997.

    Safety remains a high priority. ACL reduced  its  incident  rate by 10%
during  the year,  reflecting  a safer work environment  overall and resulting
in accident-related cost reductions of $1.5 million.

    Capital additions at ACL in 1996 totaled $91 million,  compared with $33
million in 1995 and $12 million in 1994. Spending in 1996 included $21 million
for the  acquisition  of CCTI, $31 million for new  domestic  marine  equipment
and $26  million  for  expansion  in South America.

    ACL enters 1997 with a positive outlook. The 1996 fall harvests of corn and
soybean crops were among the largest in U.S.  history,  indicating  traffic
levels for these  commodities  should be strong. Coal should remain a solid base
business for the barge line, although an existing  long-term  coal  contract may
be  restructured.  ACL also  anticipates continued  strong  demand  for  liquid
commodities  and  steel  feedstock  for mini-mills.

Intermodal Results

    With the implementation of aggressive measures to counter severe competition
from the trucking  industry,  CSX Intermodal  Inc.  (CSXI)  experienced a steady
turnaround in 1996.  Operating  income increased 17% to $35 million in 1996 from
$30  million  in 1995.  In  1994,  operating  income  was $61  million.  Revenue
decreased  5% to  $674  million,  while  volume  totaled  980,000  trailers  and
containers,  level with 1995. In 1994,  operating revenue was $684 million,  and
volume was 986,000 trailers and containers.


Intermodal Assets
Owned or leased units as of Dec. 27, 1996

Equipment

  Domestic Containers                4,002
  Rail Trailers                      5,124

Facilities
  CSX Intermodal Terminals              33
  Motor Carrier Operations Terminals    28
                                            


                  Intermodal Operating Revenue
                     (Millions of Dollars)

                             [GRAPH]

                '92     '93     '94     '95     '96

                $535    $599    $684    $707    $674





    CSXI has responded aggressively to the stiff competition caused by an over-
capacity  of  trucks.  In  July,  the  unit  consolidated  its  headquarters  in
Jacksonville,   Fla.,  and  reduced  headcount  by  30%.  CSXI also
implemented comprehensive  service  changes  throughout  its  nationwide network
to enhance service reliability,  transit times and train capacity.  The network
redesign is aimed at  achieving  better cost  controls  and  productivity  gains
from CSXI's operations  while  expanding  services in key markets with the
greatest  growth potential.
    Capital expenditures totaled $24 million in 1996 vs. $57 million in 1995 and
$50 million in 1994.  During 1996, CSXI acquired  property for a new terminal in
Atlanta and expanded terminal facilities at its gateway New Orleans terminal.
    In 1997, CSXI will focus on containing costs and growing its business in key
lanes. The unit expects substantial improvement in operating income.




                             Analysis of Operations

Contract Logistics Results

    Customized Transportation Inc. (CTI) achieved record revenue and operating
income  during 1996.  Revenue rose to $316  million,  32% over 1995 and 73% over
1994.  Operating  income  increased to $17 million,  36% over 1995 and 73% above
1994.

    CTI  continues  as a leading  logistics  provider of  materials  management,
transportation,  warehousing and staging activities.  In 1996, the unit improved
its position with current  customers and developed  business in new  industries,
such as electronics,  retail and chemical.  It executed 48 million  transactions
for its customers at an error-free rate of 99.9745% in 1996.

    In 1997, CTI will maintain an emphasis on the redesign and re-engineering of
supply chain processes for its customers and will follow its customers as they
expand internationally. Growth rates and financial performance are anticipated
to remain strong in the coming year.

                               Contract Logistics
                               Operating Revenue
                             (Millions of Dollars)

                                    [GRAPH]

                          '93     '94     '95     '96

                          $145    $182    $240    $316


Consolidated Outlook

    CSX enters 1997 with confidence and an optimistic  outlook.  Modest economic
growth and low  inflation  are  expected to  continue  in the United  States and
Europe.  Economic  growth in Japan,  following a sluggish 1996,  should begin to
improve  gradually.  The price of diesel fuel, which was unusually high in 1996,
is expected to return to more normal levels as Iraqi oil re-enters the market on
a limited basis.

    The  railroad  will  capitalize  on  anticipated  steady  growth in the U.S.
economy to improve its overall performance,  while maintaining its focus on cost
control.  The continued  growth in global demand for  containerized  cargo bodes
well  for  Sea-Land,   although  some  concerns   remain  about  rate  pressures
continuing, possibly until mid-year.

    CSX anticipates its 1997 capital spending to be less than 1996 levels, while
it will continue to reinvest in core business  assets.  CSXT will fund equipment
and track  programs  at  nearly  comparable  levels,  including delivery  of 75
alternating current locomotives. Sea-Land will continue toward completion of its
Champion Class vessel program with three vessels to be delivered in 1997 and the
last one in the first quarter of 1998.

    CSX units are committed to achieving their stretch targets, even though some
units are subject to such unpredictable external factors as adverse weather
conditions, work stoppages at major customer facilities  and shifting  economic
conditions  in the United States and abroad. Continued emphasis will be placed
on controlling  costs,  enhancing core earning power and increasing shareholder
returns.






See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.






See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)



NOTE 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.

Nature of Operations

    CSX Corporation (CSX) is a global freight transportation company with
principal business units providing rail, container-shipping, intermodal, barging
and contract logistics services. Rail transportation services are provided
principally throughout the eastern United States and account for nearly half of
the company's operating revenue, with coal, bulk products and manufactured
products each contributing a relatively equal share of rail revenue. Coal
shipments primarily supply domestic utility and export markets.
Container-shipping services are provided in the United States and more than 80
countries and territories throughout the world and account for more than
one-third of the company's operating revenue. Intermodal, barging and contract
logistics services are provided principally within the United States and
together account for the company's remaining operating revenue.

Principles of Consolidation

    The Consolidated Financial Statements include CSX and its majority-owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. Investments in companies that are not majority-owned are carried at
either cost or equity, depending on the extent of control.

Fiscal Year

    The company's fiscal reporting period ends on the last Friday in December.
The financial statements presented are for the fiscal periods ended Dec. 27,
1996, Dec. 29, 1995, and Dec. 30, 1994. Each fiscal year consists of four
13-week quarters.

Common Stock Split

    On Oct. 11, 1995, the company's board of directors declared a 2-for-1 common
stock split distributed on Dec. 21, 1995, to shareholders of record at the close
of business on Dec. 4, 1995. In the accompanying Consolidated Statement of
Earnings and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, all references to
shares of common stock and per share amounts for periods prior to the stock
split have been restated.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments

    Cash in excess of current  operating  requirements  is  invested  in various
short-term  instruments  carried at cost that approximates  market value.  Those
short-term  investments having a maturity of three months or less at the date of
acquisition are classified as cash  equivalents.  Cash and cash  equivalents are
net of outstanding  checks that are funded daily from cash receipts and maturing
short-term investments.

Accounts Receivable

    The company has sold,  directly and through Trade Receivables  Participation
Certificates (Certificates), ownership interests in designated pools of accounts
receivable originated by CSX Transportation Inc. (CSXT), its rail unit.

        During 1993,  $200  million  of  Certificates  were  issued at  5.05%,
due September 1998. The Certificates represent undivided interests in a master
trust holding an  ownership  interest in a  revolving  pool of rail  freight
accounts receivable.  The  proceeds  from the issuance of the  Certificates were
used to reduce the amount of accounts  receivable  sold under a previous
agreement.  At Dec. 27, 1996, the Certificates were  collateralized by $248
million of accounts receivable  held in the master  trust.  The company has the
ability to issue $50 million in additional  Certificates  through September 1998
at prevailing market terms.

        In addition, the company has a revolving agreement with a financial
institution to sell with recourse on a monthly basis an undivided percentage
ownership interest in designated pools of freight and other accounts receivable.
The agreement provides for the sale of up to $200 million in accounts receivable
and expires in September 1998.


        The company has retained the responsibility for servicing and collecting
accounts receivable held in trust or sold. At Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995,
accounts receivable have been reduced by $372 million, representing Certificates
and accounts receivable sold. The net costs associated with sales of
Certificates  and  receivables  were $30  million,  $32  million and $29 million
in  1996,  1995  and  1994, respectively.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


     The company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon the
expected collectibility of accounts receivable, including receivables
collateralizing Certificates  and  receivables  sold.  Allowances  for doubtful
accounts  of $97 million and $88  million  have been  applied as a reduction  of
accounts receivable at Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995, respectively.

Materials and Supplies

    Materials and supplies consist primarily of fuel and items for maintenance
of property and equipment, and are carried at average cost.

Properties

    Main line track on the rail system is  depreciated  on a group basis using a
unit-of-property  method.  All other  property and equipment is depreciated on a
straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of three to 50 years.

    Regulations maintained by the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the U.S.
Department of Transportation require periodic formal studies of ultimate service
lives for all railroad assets.  Resulting  service life estimates are subject to
review  and  approval  by the STB.  Significant  premature  retirements  for all
properties, which would include major casualty losses,  abandonments,  sales and
obsolescence  of assets,  are  recorded  as gains or losses at the time of their
occurrence.  Expenditures  that  significantly  increase  asset values or extend
useful lives are capitalized. Repair and maintenance expenditures are charged to
operating expense when the work is performed. All properties are stated at cost.

    Properties and other long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment  whenever
events or business  conditions  indicate the carrying  amount of such assets may
not be fully  recoverable.  Initial  assessments of recoverability  are based on
estimates of  undiscounted  future net cash flows  associated with an asset or a
group of assets.  Where  impairment is  indicated,  the assets are evaluated for
sale or other  disposition,  and their carrying  amount is reduced to fair value
based on discounted net cash flows or other estimates of fair value.

Revenue Recognition

    Transportation revenue is recognized  proportionately as shipments move from
origin to destination.

Environmental Costs

    Environmental   costs  relating  to  current   operations  are  expensed  or
capitalized  as  appropriate.  Expenditures  relating to remediating an existing
condition  caused by past  operations,  and that do not contribute to current or
future revenue  generation,  are expensed.  Liabilities  are recorded when CSX's
responsibility  for environmental  remedial efforts is deemed probable,  and the
costs can be  reasonably  estimated.  Generally,  the  timing of these  accruals
coincides with the completion of a feasibility study or the company's commitment
to a formal plan of action.

Derivative Financial Instruments

    Derivative  financial  instruments  may be  used  from  time  to time by the
company in the  management  of its  interest,  foreign  currency  and  commodity
exposures,  and are  accounted for on an accrual  basis.  Income and expense are
recorded in the same  category  as that of the  underlying  asset or  liability.
Gains and  losses  related  to  hedges of  existing  assets or  liabilities  are
deferred and recognized over the expected remaining life of the related asset or
liability.  Gains and losses related to hedges of anticipated  transactions also
are  deferred  and  recognized  in  income  in the  same  period  as the  hedged
transaction.   There  were  no  significant   derivative  financial  instruments
outstanding at Dec. 27, 1996.

Earnings Per Share

    Earnings  per share  are  based on the  weighted  average  of common  shares
outstanding.  Dilution,  which  could  result if all  outstanding  common  stock
equivalents  were exercised,  is not  significant.  Weighted  average shares and
earnings  per share for 1995 and 1994 have been  restated to reflect the 2-for-1
common stock split distributed to shareholders in December 1995.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


Stock-Based Compensation

    The company records expense for stock-based  compensation in accordance with
the provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees"
and  related   Interpretations.   Disclosures   required  with  respect  to  the
alternative  fair  value  measurement  and  recognition  methods  prescribed  by
Financial  Accounting  Standards Board (FASB)  Statement No. 123 "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" are presented in Note 11 -- Stock Plans.

Use of Estimates

    The  preparation  of  financial  statements  in  conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  that  management  make  estimates in
reporting the amounts of certain  revenues and expenses for each fiscal year and
certain assets and  liabilities  at the end of each fiscal year.  Actual results
may differ from those estimates.

Prior-Year Data

    Certain  prior-year  data  have been  reclassified  to  conform  to the 1996
presentation.

Accounting Pronouncements

    The  FASB has  issued  Statement  No.  125  "Accounting  for  Transfers  and
Servicing  of  Financial  Assets  and  Extinguishments  of  Liabilities,"  which
establishes new guidelines for accounting and disclosure related to transfers of
trade accounts receivable and other financial assets. In addition,  the American
Institute of Certified  Public  Accountants has issued Statement of Position No.
96-1 "Environmental Remediation Liabilities," which provides revised guidance on
accounting and disclosure  relative to  environmental  obligations.  The company
will adopt both pronouncements in 1997 and does not expect either  pronouncement
to have a material impact on its financial statements.


NOTE 2. MERGER AGREEMENT.

    On Oct. 14, 1996, CSX entered into an agreement with Conrail, Inc. (Conrail)
pursuant to which the companies would combine in a strategic merger transaction.
The terms of the  agreement  provided for CSX to acquire 40% of the  outstanding
Conrail Common Stock and ESOP Preferred  Stock (the Conrail shares) for cash and
the remaining 60% in exchange for CSX common stock. Norfolk Southern Corporation
(Norfolk Southern)  challenged the CSX/Conrail merger agreement and announced an
all-cash  competing  offer to acquire  Conrail at a price  which was  ultimately
increased to $115 per share.  CSX and Conrail  subsequently  negotiated  several
amendments to the merger agreement, generally to provide increased consideration
to Conrail  shareholders  in exchange for their  shares.  On Nov. 20, 1996,  CSX
completed an initial cash tender  offer for  approximately  19.9% of the Conrail
shares at $110 per  share,  acquiring  approximately  17.9  million  of the
shares at a total cost of $1.965  billion.  The shares  were  placed in a voting
trust as provided for in the merger  agreement.  Borrowings in connection with a
$4.8  billion  bank  credit  facility   negotiated  by  CSX  subsequent  to  the
announcement of the merger were used to finance the initial cash tender offer.

    CSX initiated a second conditional cash tender offer for an additional 20.1%
of the Conrail  shares,  but was prevented  from  completing  this or subsequent
steps of the merger transaction when a Jan. 17, 1997 vote by Conrail
shareholders  defeated  a  proposal  to  opt  out of  the  Pennsylvania  Control
Transaction  Law (the  Pennsylvania  statute).  A favorable  vote on the opt-out
proposal would have removed  restrictions  limiting CSX's ownership to less than
20% of the Conrail shares under the terms  contemplated by the merger agreement.
The outcome of the Conrail  shareholder vote coupled with public comments by the
Chairwoman  of the STB favoring a negotiated  settlement of  competitive  issues
surrounding the proposed merger prompted joint discussions between CSX, Conrail,
and Norfolk Southern. These discussions, which began in late January, led to the
negotiation  of an amendment  to the  CSX/Conrail  merger  agreement on March 7,
1997.  The amended  agreement  provides  for the  acquisition  of the  remaining
Conrail shares for cash at $115 per share and, among other things, allows CSX to
unilaterally  enter into negotiations  with Norfolk Southern.  It is anticipated
that when these negotiations are completed, CSX and Norfolk Southern will share,
roughly equally, the Conrail rail system.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


    CSX will  reflect the terms of the amended  merger  agreement  in a revised
tender  offer.  Since the revised offer provides  cash  consideration  for all
Conrail shares, it is no longer subject to a vote by Conrail shareholders to opt
out of the Pennsylvania statute. The revised tender offer is expected to be
completed no later than June 2, 1997. The transactions  ultimately  agreed to by
the three  companies  are subject to regulatory approval by the STB. The Conrail
shares currently held by CSX and the shares to be acquired  pursuant to the
revised merger  agreement will be held in the voting  trust until such time as a
regulatory  decision is  rendered.  CSX's financing  arrangements will be
revised or renegotiated to accommodate the final structure agreed to by the
companies.

    At Dec. 27, 1996,  CSX has  accounted  for its 19.9%  investment  in Conrail
using the cost method. Dividends totaling $8 million received on those shares in
1996 are reported in other income in the consolidated statement of earnings. The
method of  accounting  applicable  to CSX holdings of Conrail shares for future
periods may differ,  depending on the timing and final structure of the related
transactions.

NOTE 3. 1995 RESTRUCTURING CHARGE.

    In the second  quarter of 1995,  the company  recorded a $257 million pretax
restructuring charge to recognize the estimated costs of specific initiatives at
CSXT and at Sea-Land Service Inc. (Sea-Land),  its container-shipping  unit. The
charge reduced 1995 net earnings by $160 million, 76 cents per share.

CSXT Initiative

    CSXT recorded its $196 million portion of the pretax restructuring charge to
recognize  the  costs  associated  with a  contractual  agreement  with a  major
telecommunications  vendor to replace,  manage and  technologically  enhance its
existing  private  telecommunications  network.  The  initiative  resulted  in a
write-down of assets rendered technologically obsolete and a provision for
separation and labor protection payments to affected employees.

    The agreement, which originally was to expire in May 2005, provided for the
vendor  to  supply and  manage  new  technology  to  replace  CSXT's   existing
telecommunications system,  thereby rendering it commercially  obsolete.  These
assets,  comprising CSXT's  internal  companywide   telecommunications  network
including existing microwave and fiber optic  communications  systems,  have no
alternative use and their net realizable value is not  significant.  As a result
of the agreement, the net book value of the assets to be replaced was reduced by
$163 million.

    During  1996,  CSXT and  the  vendor  amended  the  agreement  to change
the termination  date to June 30, 1998,  to increase the payments required over
the revised  service  period,  and to relieve the  vendor's obligations  to
replace certain  technology.  CSXT is currently  evaluating options for
proceeding with further telecommunications initiatives.

Sea-Land Initiatives

    The  restructuring  initiatives at Sea-Land  represented  $61 million of the
total charge and included its global  integration  program and the reflagging of
five  U.S.-flag  vessels to the registry of the Marshall  Islands in  accordance
with approval from the Maritime  Administration.  Sea-Land's global  integration
program resulted in the consolidation of worldwide senior management  functions,
the  relocation  of the  corporate  headquarters  to  Charlotte,  N.C.,  and the
integration  of  information  technologies.  The  vessel  reflagging  initiative
primarily involves crew separations on the five vessels.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


Summary

    The 1995 restructuring charge and related activity through Dec. 27, 1996, is
as follows:


                                                  Separation  Lease and
                                                   and Labor   Facility
                                       Obsolete   Protection       Exit
                                         Assets        Costs      Costs    Total
                                           ----         ----        ---     ----
Restructuring Charge                       $163          $80        $14     $257

Amounts Utilized through Dec. 27, 1996      163           28          8      199
                                           ----         ----        ---     ----
Remaining Reserve as of Dec. 27, 1996      $ --         $ 52        $ 6     $ 58
                                           ====         ====        ===     ====

    The total provision for separation and labor protection  payments relates to
approximately  800  affected  employees  and was  based on  existing  collective
bargaining  agreements with members of clerical,  electrical,  and signal crafts
and  seafarer  trades.  Through  Dec.  27,  1996,   approximately  530  employee
separations  have been  finalized.  The company  expects the remaining  affected
employees to be impacted within the next four years.

NOTE 4. OPERATING EXPENSE.

                                                1996       1995       1994
                                               ------     ------     ------
Labor and Fringe Benefits                      $3,161     $3,133     $3,005
Materials, Supplies and Other                   2,530      2,622      2,311
Building and Equipment Rent                     1,143      1,134      1,087
Inland Transportation                             995        970        839
Depreciation                                      611        588        564
Fuel                                              574        474        421
Restructuring Charge                               --        257         --
                                               ------     ------     ------

Total                                          $9,014     $9,178     $8,227
                                               ======     ======     ======
Selling, General and Administrative Expense
    Included in Above Items                    $1,297     $1,351     $1,265
                                               ======     ======     ======





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


NOTE 5. OTHER INCOME.

                                                   1996      1995      1994
                                                   ----      ----      ----
Interest Income                                    $48      $  62      $ 57
Income from Real Estate and Resort Operations(a)    62         54        58
Net Gain (Loss) on Investment Transactions(b)       (4)        77        --
Gain on South Florida Track Sale(c)                 --         --        91
Net Costs for Accounts Receivable Sold             (30)      (32)       (29)
Minority Interest                                  (42)      (32)       (21)
Loss on Redemption of Debt                          --         --       (13)
Equity Earnings (Losses) of Other Affiliates         6        (3)       (10)
Dividend Income                                      9          1         1
Miscellaneous                                       (6)       (9)       (29)
                                                   ---       ----      ----
Total                                              $43       $118      $105
                                                   ===       ====      ==== 

(a) Gross revenue from real estate and resort operations was $186 million, $178
    million and $190 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

(b) In  December  1995,  the  company  recognized  a net  investment  gain of
    $77 million on the issuance of an equity interest in a Sea-Land terminal and
    related  operations  in Asia and the  write-down  of various investments.
    The equity  interest  portion of the  transaction  resulted  in proceeds of
    $105 million and a pretax gain of $93 million, $61 million after-tax, 29
    cents per share.  Sea-Land's  interest in the  terminal operations  was
    reduced from approximately 67% to 57%.

(c) In  December  1994,  the state of Florida  elected to satisfy  its
    remaining unfunded  obligation issued in 1988 to consummate the purchase of
    80 miles of track and right of way.  The  transaction  resulted in cash
    proceeds of $102 million and an accelerated pretax gain of $69 million, $42
    million after-tax, 20 cents per share.  The scheduled  payment resulted in a
    $22 million gain in 1994.


NOTE 6. INCOME TAXES.

    Earnings from domestic and foreign operations and related income tax expense
are as follows:


                                    1996         1995     1994
                                   ------        ----    ------
Earnings Before Income Taxes:
        -- Domestic                $1,158        $765    $  893
        -- Foreign                    158         209       113
                                   ------        ----    ------
   Total                           $1,316        $974    $1,006
                                   ======        ====    ======
Income Tax Expense (Benefit):
Current -- Federal                 $  250        $337    $  144
        -- Foreign                     30          26        20
        -- State                       15          19        14
                                   ------        ----    ------
   Total Current                      295         382       178
                                   ------        ----    ------
Deferred-- Federal                    166         (26)      165
        -- Foreign                     --          --         2
        -- State                       --          --         9
                                   ------        ----    ------
   Total Deferred                     166         (26)      176
                                   ------        ----    ------
   Total Expense                   $  461        $356    $  354
                                   ======        ====    ======






                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

  Income tax expense  reconciled  to the tax computed at statutory  rates is as
follows:

                                1996             1995            1994
                            -----------      -----------     ------------
Tax at Statutory Rates      $461    35%      $341    35%     $352     35%
State Income Taxes            10     1         12     1        15      1
Prior Years' Income Taxes    (27)   (2)        --    --       (10)    (1)
Other Items                   17     1          3     1        (3)    --
                            ----    ---      ----    ---     ----     ---
    Total Expense           $461    35%      $356    37%     $354     35%
                            ====    ===      ====    ===     ====     ===


   The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities include:

                                             Dec. 27,         Dec. 29,
                                               1996             1995
                                             --------         --------
Deferred Tax Assets
   Productivity/Restructuring Charges          $  171          $  178
   Employee Benefit Plans                         434             417
   Deferred Gains and Related Rents               195             166
   Other                                          252             300
                                               ------          ------
     Total                                      1,052           1,061
                                               ------          ------
Deferred Tax Liabilities
   Accelerated Depreciation                     3,095           3,042
   Other                                          538             431
                                               ------          ------
     Total                                      3,633           3,473
                                               ------          ------
Net Deferred Tax Liabilities                   $2,581          $2,412
                                               ======          ======

    In addition to the annual  provision  for deferred  income tax expense,  the
change in the year-end net deferred income tax liability  balances  included the
income tax effect of the changes in the minimum  pension  liability  in 1996 and
1995.

    The company has not recorded domestic deferred or additional  foreign income
taxes  applicable to  undistributed  earnings of foreign  subsidiaries  that are
considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Such earnings amounted to $279 million
and $314  million at Dec.  27, 1996,  and Dec.  29,  1995,  respectively.  These
amounts may become  taxable upon their  remittance as dividends or upon the sale
or liquidation of these foreign subsidiaries. It is not practicable to determine
the amount of net  additional  income  tax that may be payable if such  earnings
were repatriated.

    The company files a consolidated  federal income tax return,  which includes
its principal  domestic  subsidiaries.  Examinations  of the federal  income tax
returns of CSX have been completed  through 1990.  Returns for 1991 through 1993
are currently under examination. Management believes adequate provision has been
made for any adjustments that might be assessed.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


NOTE 7. PROPERTIES.




NOTE 8. CASUALTY, ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER RESERVES.

    Activity  related  to  casualty,  environmental  and  other  reserves  is as
follows:




(a) Balances include current portions of casualty and other, environmental and
    separation reserves, respectively, of $234 million, $20 million and $52
    million at Dec. 27, 1996; $241 million, $20 million and $37 million at Dec.
    29, 1995; and $234 million, $20 million and $22 million at Dec. 30, 1994.

(b) Casualty  reserves  are  estimated  based  upon  the  first  reporting  of
    an accident or personal  injury to an employee.  Liabilities  for  accidents
    are based upon field reports and liabilities for personal injuries are based
    upon the type  and  severity  of the  injury  and the use of  current trends
    and historical data.

(c) Separation  liabilities  include $318 million at Dec. 27, 1996,  $344
    million at Dec. 29, 1995, and $376 million at Dec. 30, 1994,  related to
    productivity charges  recorded  in 1991 and 1992 to  provide  for the
    estimated  costs of implementing  work-force  reductions,  improvements in
    productivity and other cost reductions at the company's major transportation
    units.  The remaining liabilities are expected to be paid out over the next
    20 to 25 years.

(d) Includes the transfer of $156 million in 1994 to a separation-related
    pension obligation,  representing  the future cost of pensions for certain
    train crew employees impacted by the buyout of trip-based  compensation
    provided for in the 1992 productivity charge.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


NOTE 9. DEBT AND CREDIT AGREEMENTS.






       To  provide  financing  for its  acquisition  of  Conrail  shares  and to
accommodate working capital needs, the company entered into a $4.8 billion bank
credit agreement in November 1996. Under the agreement,  the company may borrow
directly from the participating banks or utilize the credit facility to support
the issuance of commercial paper.  Direct borrowings from the participating
banks can be obtained,  at the company's  option,  under a  competitive  bid
process among the banks or under a revolving credit arrangement with interest
either at LIBOR plus a margin  determined by the company's  credit  ratings or
at an alternate base rate, as defined in the  agreement.  The terms of the
agreement  provided for $800 million to become available  immediately to replace
existing credit  agreements totaling $880 million,  which supported the
company's outstanding commercial paper.  The  remaining  $4 billion of credit
under the facility is available for the purchase of Conrail shares, of which
$1.965 billion was used to acquire approximately 19.9% of Conrail's outstanding
shares in November 1996. At Dec. 27, 1996, the company had borrowings related to
the credit facility of $2.635 billion ($300  million  direct  borrowings  and
$2.335  billion  commercial  paper outstanding),  of which $2.3 billion has been
classified  as  long-term  debt based  upon  the  company's  ability  and
intention  to  maintain  this  debt outstanding for more than one year. The
company pays annual fees to the  participating  banks that may  range  from .06%
to .15% of the total  commitment,  depending  upon its credit ratings.  The
credit agreement,  which expires in November 2001, also includes certain
covenants and restrictions, such as limitations on debt as a percentage of total
capitalization and restrictions on the sale or disposition of certain assets.

    Commercial paper classified as short-term debt was $335 million at Dec. 27,
1996, and $148 million at Dec. 29, 1995. The weighted-average interest rate for
the short-term commercial paper outstanding at year-end was 6% for 1996 and
1995.

    In September 1992, the company filed a shelf registration statement with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  to provide for the issuance of up to $450
million in senior  debt  securities,  warrants to purchase  debt  securities  or
currency  warrants.  This shelf  registration  included  a  combined  prospectus
covering  amounts  remaining  to be issued as debt  securities  under a previous
shelf registration. As of Dec. 27, 1996, an aggregate of $250 million of debt is
available for issuance  under the  company's  shelf  registration  statement and
combined prospectus.

    During 1994, the company redeemed $300 million of 9.5%,  11.625% and 11.875%
Sinking Fund Debentures.  The redemption premium,  unamortized debt discount and
issuance costs totaling $18 million were charged to expense.

    Excluding  long-term  commercial  paper,  the  company  has  long-term  debt
maturities for 1997 through 2001  aggregating  $101 million,  $145 million,  $95
million, $328 million and $65 million,  respectively. A portion of the company's
rail unit properties are pledged as security for various rail-related, long-term
debt issues.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

NOTE 10. COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK.

    The company has a single class of common stock,  $1 par value,  of which 300
million shares are authorized. Each share is entitled to one vote in all matters
requiring a vote. In December 1995,  shareholders  received one additional share
of common stock for each share held,  pursuant to a 2-for-1 stock split approved
by the  board  of  directors.  At  Dec.  27,  1996,  common  shares  issued  and
outstanding totaled 216,885,140.

    The company also has total authorized  preferred stock of 25 million shares,
of which  250,000  shares of Series A have been  reserved  for  issuance,  and 3
million shares of Series B have been reserved for issuance under the Shareholder
Rights Plan discussed  below.  All preferred shares rank senior to common shares
both as to dividends and liquidation preference. No preferred shares were
outstanding at Dec. 27, 1996.

    Pursuant to a  Shareholder  Rights Plan adopted by the board of directors in
1988 and amended in 1990, each outstanding  share of common stock also evidences
one preferred share purchase right ("right").  Each right entitles  shareholders
of record to purchase  from the company,  until the earlier of June 8, 1998,  or
the redemption of the rights, one one-hundredth of a share of Series B preferred
stock at an exercise  price of $100,  subject to certain  adjustments  or, under
certain  circumstances,  to obtain additional shares of common stock in exchange
for the rights.  The rights are not exercisable or  transferable  apart from the
related  common  shares  until  the  earlier  of 10 days  following  the  public
announcement  that a person or  affiliated  group has  acquired or obtained  the
right to acquire 20% or more of the company's  outstanding  common stock;  or 10
days following the commencement or announcement of an intention to make a tender
offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the ownership
by a person or group of 20% or more of the outstanding  common stock.  The board
of directors  may redeem the rights at a price of one cent per right at any time
prior to the  acquisition by a person or group of 20% or more of the outstanding
common stock.


NOTE 11. STOCK PLANS.

    The company maintains several stock plans designed to encourage ownership of
its stock and provide  incentives  for  employees to  contribute to its success.
Compensation  expense for stock-based  awards under these plans is determined by
the awards'  intrinsic  value  accounted for under the principles of APB Opinion
No.  25  and  related  Interpretations.   Compensation  expense  recognized  for
stock-based  awards  in 1996 was $36  million.  Had  compensation  expense  been
determined  based upon fair  values at the date of grant for awards  under these
plans,  consistent with the methods of FASB Statement No. 123, the company's net
income and earnings  per share would have been reduced to the pro forma  amounts
indicated below:


                                                        1996             1995
                                                       -----            -----

Net Income          As Reported                        $ 855            $ 618
                    Pro Forma                          $ 832            $ 610

Earnings Per Share  As Reported                        $4.00            $2.94
                    Pro Forma                          $3.90            $2.90
                                                                             

    The  pro  forma  fair  value  method  of  accounting  was  applied  only  to
stock-based  awards  granted  after  Dec.  30,  1994.  Because  all  stock-based
compensation  expense for 1996 and 1995 was not restated and because stock-based
awards granted may vary from year to year, the resulting pro forma  compensation
cost may not be representative of that to be expected in future years.

Stock Purchase and Loan Plan

    The Stock  Purchase and Loan Plan  provides for the purchase of common stock
and related  rights by eligible  officers  and key  employees of the company and
entitles  them to obtain loans with respect to the shares  purchased.  The Plan,
which  originated in 1991,  is intended to further the  long-term  stability and
financial success of the company by providing a method for eligible employees to
increase  significantly their ownership of common stock.  Amendments to the Plan
were approved by the company's  shareholders and implemented in 1996,  providing
for  continuation  of the Plan through  February 2006, and increasing the common
stock reserved for issuance from 4.4 million to 9 million shares.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

    Under the revised Plan,  upon maturity of purchase  loans issued in 1991 and
1992, existing participants either withdrew shares from the Plan, applied all or
part of their equity in shares  purchased in the original Plan as a down payment
to acquire additional shares, or extended their participation at existing levels
for up to one year.  In addition,  shares were offered to certain  employees who
were not previously  eligible to participate in the Plan. In connection with the
Plan amendments,  from Aug. 1, 1996,  through Dec. 27, 1996,  72,497 shares were
withdrawn  from the Plan,  2,630,727  shares were  exchanged and  canceled,  and
7,651,970  new shares were sold to  participants  at an average  market price of
$47.52 per share. In consideration for the shares  purchased,  participants have
provided  down  payments  of not less than 5% nor more than 25% of the  purchase
price in the form of cash, recourse notes or equity earned in the original Plan.
The remaining purchase price is in the form of non-recourse loans secured by the
shares issued.

    All  non-recourse  loans  under  the Plan  are or were  subject  to  certain
adjustments  after a vesting period based upon targeted  increases in the market
price of CSX common stock.  The market price  thresholds  for loans to employees
who extended  their  participation  in the original  plan have been met in prior
years and, upon maturity at July 31, 1997,  or earlier  repayment,  all interest
(less  dividends  applied to accrued  interest)  will be  forgiven  and the loan
balances will be reduced by 25% of the purchase price. Loans to participants who
exchanged shares or entered the Plan in 1996 are due July 31, 2001, and also are
subject  to  forgiveness  of a portion of the  principal  and  accrued  interest
balances; however, at Dec. 27, 1996, none of the related market price thresholds
had been met.

    At Dec. 27, 1996, there were 187 participants in the Plan. Transactions
involving the Plan are as follows:

                                                      Shares          Average
                                                     (000's)         Price(a)
                                                     -------         --------
Outstanding at Dec. 30, 1994                           3,869           $18.67
  Canceled or Withdrawn                                (446)           $19.25
                                                     -------         --------
Outstanding at Dec. 29, 1995                           3,423           $18.64
  Issued                                               7,652           $47.52
  Exchanged, Canceled or Withdrawn                    (2,964)          $18.73
                                                     -------         --------
Outstanding at Dec. 27, 1996                           8,111           $46.26
                                                     =======         ========

                                               1996         1995        1994
                                             -------     --------     -------
Down Payment (Recourse) Loans Outstanding    $    7      $     4      $     4
Purchase (Non-Recourse) Loans Outstanding    $  296      $    60      $    68
Average Interest Rate                          6.64%        7.75%        7.75%
Compensation Expense for the Year            $   13      $    26      $     4
                                             ======      =======      =======

(a) Represents average cost to participants, net of cumulative note forgiveness.

    The  weighted-average  fair value benefit to participants for a share issued
in 1996 under the Stock Purchase and Loan Plan was $15.65,  and was estimated as
of the date of grant  using the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with the
following assumptions:  risk-free interest rate of 6.5%; dividend yield of 2.4%;
volatility factor of 21.5%; and an expected life of 6 years.

1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan

    The CSX  Corporation  1987  Long-Term  Performance  Stock Plan  provides for
awards  in  the  form  of  stock  options,  Stock  Appreciation  Rights  (SARs),
Performance Share Awards (PSAs) and Incentive Compensation Program shares (ICPs)
to eligible officers and employees. Awards granted under the Plan are determined
by the board of directors based on the financial performance of the company.

    At Dec. 27, 1996, there were 440 current or former employees with
outstanding grants under the Plan. A total of 19,661,492 shares were reserved
for issuance, of which 5,396,274 were available for new grants (7,503,922 at
Dec. 29, 1995). The remaining shares are assigned to outstanding stock options,
SARs and PSAs.





                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)


    All stock  options have been granted with 10-year  terms and vest at the end
of one year of  continued  employment.  The exercise  price for options  granted
equals the market price of the  underlying  stock on the date of grant.  Options
under recent grants become  exercisable  based on the achievement of performance
goals. A summary of the company's stock option activity, and related information
for the fiscal  years ended Dec. 27,  1996, Dec.  29, 1995,  and Dec. 30, 1994,
follows:



    The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at Dec. 27, 1996:




    The fair value of options  granted in 1996 and 1995 was  estimated as of the
dates of grant using the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model with the following
weighted-average  assumptions  used for  grants in 1996 and 1995,  respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 6.3% and 6.8% and volatility factors of 22% and 23%.
Dividend yields of 2.4% and expected lives of 6 years were used in both years.

    The value of PSAs is contingent on the achievement of performance  goals and
completion  of certain  continuing  employment  requirements  over a  three-year
period.  Each PSA earned  will equal the fair  market  value of one share of CSX
common stock on the date of payment. At Dec. 27, 1996, there were 728,600 shares
reserved  for  outstanding  PSAs.  In 1996 and 1995,  respectively,  110,600 and
122,200 PSAs were granted to employees. The weighted-average fair value of those
shares was $44.44 for 1996 and $32.56 for 1995.

    At Dec. 27, 1996, there were 435,073 SARs outstanding with a
weighted-average exercise price of $15.85. In 1996 and 1994, respectively,
69,494 and 56,740 SARs were exercised at weighted-average exercise prices of
$15.68 and $15.63; there were no exercises in 1995. There were no grants of SARs
in 1996, 1995 or 1994.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

Stock Award Plan

    Under the 1990 Stock Award Plan,  all officers and  employees of the company
are eligible to receive  shares of CSX common  stock as an  incentive  award and
certain key  employees  are  eligible to receive them as a deferral  award.  All
awards of common stock are issued based on terms and conditions  approved by the
company's  board of directors.  At Dec. 27, 1996,  there were  1,340,369  shares
reserved for issuance  under this Plan, of which 513,369 were  available for new
grants. In 1996 and 1995,  respectively, 633,587 shares and 348,278  shares were
granted under the Plan. The  weighted-average  fair value of those shares was
$45.63 for 1996 and $35.78 for 1995.

Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plans

    The 1991 Employees Stock Purchase and Dividend  Reinvestment Plan provides a
method and incentive for eligible  employees to purchase shares of the company's
common  stock  at  market  value  by  payroll  deductions.  To  encourage  stock
ownership, employees receive a 17.65% matching payment on their contributions in
the form of additional stock purchased by the company.  Each matching payment of
stock is subject  to a  two-year  holding  period.  Sales of stock  prior to the
completion of the holding  period  result in  forfeiture  of the matching  stock
purchase. Officers and key employees who qualify for the Stock Purchase and Loan
Plan are not eligible to participate in this Plan. At Dec. 27, 1996,  there were
706,899 shares of common stock available for purchase under this Plan. Employees
purchased  40,985  shares in 1996 and  46,224  shares in 1995  under the plan at
weighted-average  market  prices  of  $47.39  and  $40.31  for  1996  and  1995,
respectively.

    The company  also  maintains  the  Employees  Stock  Purchase  and  Dividend
Reinvestment Plan and the Shareholders  Dividend  Reinvestment  Plan, adopted in
1981,  under which all employees and  shareholders may purchase CSX common stock
at the  average of daily  high and low sale  prices  for the five  trading  days
ending on the day of purchase. To encourage stock ownership, employees receive a
5% discount on all purchases  under this program.  At Dec. 27, 1996,  there were
5,128,605 shares reserved for issuance under these Plans.

Stock Plan for Directors

    The Stock Plan for Directors,  approved by the shareholders in 1992, governs
in part the manner in which directors' fees and retainers are paid. A minimum of
40% of the  retainer  fees  must be paid in  common  stock  of the  company.  In
addition,  each  director  may  elect  to  receive  up to 100% of the  remaining
retainer and fees in the form of common  stock of the company.  The Plan permits
each director to elect to transfer  stock into a trust that will hold the shares
until the  participant's  death,  disability,  retirement  as a director,  other
cessation  of services as a director,  or change in control of the  company.  At
Dec. 27, 1996,  there were 959,236  shares of common stock reserved for issuance
under this Plan.


NOTE 12. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS.

    Fair  values  of  the  company's  financial  instruments  are  estimated  by
reference to quoted prices from market  sources and financial  institutions,  as
well as other valuation techniques.  Long-term debt and the company's investment
in Conrail common stock are the only  financial  instruments of the company with
fair values  significantly  different from their carrying  amounts.  At Dec. 27,
1996, the fair value of long-term debt, including current maturities,  was $4.56
billion, compared with a carrying amount of $4.43 billion. At Dec. 29, 1995, the
fair value of long-term debt,  including current maturities,  was $2.94 billion,
compared with a carrying  amount of $2.71  billion.  The fair value of long-term
debt has been  estimated  using  discounted  cash flow  analyses  based upon the
company's  current  incremental  borrowing  rates for similar types of financing
arrangements.

    The company's  investment in  approximately  17.9 million  shares of Conrail
common  stock  was  acquired  at a price  of $110  per  share,  resulting  in an
aggregate  carrying  amount of $1.965  billion.  At Dec. 27,  1996,  the closing
market  price of  Conrail  common  stock  was $100 per  share,  resulting  in an
aggregate market value of $1.786 billion.  As of Dec. 27, 1996, the terms of the
voting trust  agreement  under which the shares were held prohibited the company
from selling any of the Conrail shares without  Conrail's written approval prior
to the earlier of Dec. 31, 1998, or a regulatory decision by the STB that denies
completion of the company's merger with Conrail under the terms  contemplated at
that date.

    The company had no significant hedging or derivative financial instruments
employed at Dec. 27, 1996, or Dec. 29, 1995.






                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

NOTE 13. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS.

Pension Plans

      The company sponsors defined benefit pension plans, principally for
salaried personnel. The plans provide eligible employees with retirement
benefits based principally on years of service and compensation rates near
retirement. Annual contributions  to the  plans  are  sufficient  to meet  the
minimum  funding standards set forth in the Employee  Retirement  Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended.  Plan assets consist primarily of common
stocks,  corporate bonds and cash and cash equivalents. Pension costs for these
plans include the following components:

                                                  1996      1995    1994
                                                  ----      ----    ----

Service Cost                                      $ 37     $  28    $ 36
Interest Cost on Projected Benefit Obligation       93        91      89
Actual Return on Plan Assets                       (89)     (190)    (10)
Net Amortization and Deferral                       18       117     (45)
Foreign Plans                                        4         4       4
                                                  ----     -----    ----
Pension Expense                                    $63     $  50    $ 74
                                                  ====     =====    ====

    The funded status of the plans and the amounts reflected in the accompanying
statement of financial position at year-end are:



* In 1996, the company changed the measurement date for pension assets and
  liabilities from the end of the fiscal year to Sept. 30. The change in
  measurement date had no effect on 1996 or prior years' pension expense.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

    Pension  expense is determined  based upon an actuarial  valuation as of the
beginning  of each  year.  The  following  actuarial  assumptions  were  used in
determining net pension expense and projected benefit obligations:



    The aggregate  minimum pension liability was reduced by $24 million in 1996,
primarily due to the increase in fair value of plan assets.

Savings Plans

    The company  maintains  savings plans for  virtually all full-time  salaried
employees and certain  employees  covered by collective  bargaining  agreements.
Eligible employees may contribute from 1% to 15% of their annual compensation in
1%  multiples  to  these  plans.   The  company  matches   eligible   employees'
contributions  in an amount  equal to the  lesser  of 50% of each  participating
employee's  contributions or 3% of their annual compensation.  In addition,  the
company  contributes  fixed amounts for each  participating  employee covered by
certain collective  bargaining  agreements.  Expense associated with these plans
was  $23  million,  $29  million  and $31  million  for  1996,  1995  and  1994,
respectively.

Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans

    In addition to the defined benefit pension plans, the company sponsors three
plans  that  provide  medical  and life  insurance  benefits  to most  full-time
salaried employees upon their retirement.  The post-retirement medical plans are
contributory,  with retiree contributions  adjusted annually,  and contain other
cost-sharing  features  such as  deductibles  and  coinsurance.  The net benefit
obligation for medical plans anticipates future cost-sharing  changes consistent
with the  company's  expressed  intent to increase  retiree  contribution  rates
annually in line with expected  medical cost inflation rates. The life insurance
plan is non-contributory.

    The  company's  current  policy  is to fund the cost of the  post-retirement
medical and life insurance benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis, as in prior years.
The amounts  recorded  for the  combined  plans in the  company's  statement  of
financial position at Dec. 27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995, are as follows:



*  In  1996,  the  company  changed  the   measurement   date  for  valuing  its
   post-retirement  benefit  obligation to Sept.  30. The change in  measurement
   date had no effect on 1996 or prior  years' net expense  for  post-retirement
   benefits.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

    Net expense for  post-retirement  benefits was $30 million,  $27 million and
$29  million  for 1996,  1995 and 1994,  respectively.  The net  post-retirement
benefit obligation was determined using the assumption that the health care cost
trend rate for medical plans was 10% for 1996-1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5%
by 2005 and  remaining  at that level  thereafter.  A 1% increase in the assumed
health  care cost trend  rate would  increase  the  accumulated  post-retirement
benefit obligation for medical plans as of Dec. 27, 1996, by $21 million and net
post-retirement  benefit expense for 1996 by $3 million.  The discount rate used
in determining the accumulated  post-retirement benefit obligation was 7.50% for
1996 and 1995, and 8.25% for 1994.

Other Plans

    Under collective bargaining agreements, the company participates in a number
of  union-sponsored,  multiemployer  benefit plans.  Payments to these plans are
made as part of  aggregate  assessments  generally  based on number of employees
covered,   hours  worked,   tonnage  moved  or  a   combination   thereof.   The
administrators of the multiemployer plans generally allocate funds received from
participating  companies to various health and welfare benefit plans and pension
plans.  Current information  regarding such allocations has not been provided by
the administrators.  Total contributions of $224 million,  $239 million and $209
million, respectively, were made to these plans in 1996, 1995 and 1994.

NOTE 14. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES.

Lease Commitments

    The company leases  equipment  under  agreements  with terms up to 21 years.
Non-cancelable,  long-term leases generally  include options to purchase at fair
value and to extend the terms. At Dec. 27, 1996,  minimum building and equipment
rentals under non-cancelable operating leases totaled approximately $418 million
for 1997, $390 million for 1998, $337 million for 1999, $286 million for 2000,
$272 million for 2001 and $2.2 billion thereafter.

    Rent  expense on operating  leases,  including  net daily rental  charges on
railroad operating  equipment of $245 million,  $257 million and $258 million in
1996,  1995 and 1994,  respectively,  amounted to $1.2 billion in 1996 and 1995,
and $1.1 billion in 1994.

Purchase Commitments

    CSXT  entered  into  agreements   during  1993  and  1996  to  purchase  380
locomotives.  These large orders cover normal  locomotive  replacement needs for
1994 through 1997 and introduced  alternating current traction technology to the
locomotive  fleet.  CSXT  has  taken  delivery  of 50  direct  current  and  255
alternating-current locomotives through Dec. 27, 1996. The remaining 75
alternating-current units will be delivered in 1997.

    During 1994 and 1995,  Sea-Land entered into agreements for the construction
of nine high-performance,  fuel-efficient  container vessels.  Estimated capital
expenditures  for these vessels  total $525  million,  of which $312 million has
been expended through Dec. 27, 1996, with the remaining $213 million expected to
be incurred  over the next two years.  Five of the vessels  have been  delivered
through Dec. 27, 1996.

Other Commitments

     During  1995,   CSXT   entered   into  an   agreement   with  a  major
telecommunications  vendor to supply and manage its  telecommunications  needs
through May 2005. As discussed in Note 3 - Restructuring Charge, the agreement
was amended in 1996 to significantly reduce the service  period,  increase
contractual  payment  amounts  over the revised  service  period,  and  relieve
the vendor of  obligations  to replace certain  telecommunications  technology.
The amended agreement  provides for a revised termination date of June 30, 1998,
and requires minimum  payments  totaling $56 million over the remaining service
period.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

Contingent Liabilities

    The company and its subsidiaries are  contingently  liable  individually and
jointly with others as guarantors of long-term debt and obligations  principally
relating  to  leased  equipment,  joint  ventures  and joint  facilities.  These
contingent  obligations  were immaterial to the company's  results of operations
and financial position at Dec. 27, 1996.

    The  company  has  been  advised  that   activities  of  a  subsidiary  that
administered  student  loans and that was sold by the  company in 1992 are under
review to  determine  whether,  and to what extent,  damages  should be asserted
against the company  for  government  insurance  payments on  uncollected  loans
related to alleged  processing  deficiencies  or errors  that may have  occurred
prior to the time the  subsidiary  was  sold.  The  company  believes  it has no
material  liability for any claim that might be asserted,  but the final outcome
of the  review  and the  amount  of  potential  damages  are not yet  reasonably
estimable.  Based upon  information  currently  available to the company,  it is
believed any adverse  outcome will not be material to the  company's  results of
operations or financial position.

    Although the company obtains substantial amounts of commercial insurance for
potential  losses for  third-party  liability  and property  damage,  reasonable
levels  of risk  are  retained  on a  self-insurance  basis.  A  portion  of the
insurance coverage, $25 million limit above $25 million per occurrence from rail
and certain other operations, is provided by a company partially owned by CSX.

    CSXT is a  party  to  various  proceedings  involving  private  parties  and
regulatory agencies related to environmental issues. CSXT has been identified as
a  potentially  responsible  party (PRP) at  approximately  105  environmentally
impaired  sites that are or may be subject to remedial  action under the Federal
Superfund  statute  (Superfund)  or similar  state  statutes.  A number of these
proceedings are based on allegations  that CSXT, or its  predecessor  railroads,
sent  hazardous  substances to the  facilities  in question for  disposal.  Such
proceedings  arising  under  Superfund  or similar  state  statutes  can involve
numerous other waste  generators and disposal  companies and seek to allocate or
recover costs  associated with site  investigation  and cleanup,  which could be
substantial.

    CSXT is involved in a number of administrative and judicial  proceedings and
other clean-up efforts at approximately 270 sites, including the sites addressed
under the Federal  Superfund  statute or similar state statutes,  at which it is
participating   in  the  study   and/or   clean-up   of  alleged   environmental
contamination.  The  assessment  of the required  response  and  remedial  costs
associated  with most sites is extremely  complex.  Cost  estimates are based on
information  available for each site,  financial  viability of other PRPs, where
available, and existing technology, laws and regulations.  CSXT's best estimates
of the  allocation  method  and  percentage  of  liability  when  other PRPs are
involved are based on  assessments  by  consultants,  agreements  among PRPs, or
determinations by the U.S.  Environmental  Protection Agency or other regulatory
agencies.

    At least once each  quarter,  CSXT reviews its role, if any, with respect to
each such  location,  giving  consideration  to the  nature  of  CSXT's  alleged
connection to the location (e.g., generator,  owner or operator),  the extent of
CSXT's alleged connection (e.g.,  volume of waste sent to the location and other
relevant factors),  the accuracy and strength of evidence  connecting CSXT to
the location,  and the number,  connection and financial position of other named
and unnamed PRPs at the  location.  The ultimate  liability for  remediation can
be difficult to determine with certainty because of the number and
creditworthiness of  PRPs   involved.   Through  the  assessment   process, CSXT
monitors  the creditworthiness of such PRPs in determining ultimate liability.

    Based upon such  reviews and updates of the sites with which it is involved,
CSXT has recorded,  and reviews at least  quarterly  for  adequacy,  reserves to
cover  estimated  contingent  future  environmental  costs with  respect to such
sites. The recorded liabilities for estimated future environmental costs at Dec.
27, 1996, and Dec. 29, 1995,  were $117 million and $137 million,  respectively.
These recorded  liabilities  include  amounts  representing  CSXT's  estimate of
unasserted claims, which CSXT believes to be immaterial.  The liability has been
accrued  for  future  costs for all  sites  where the  company's  obligation  is
probable  and  where  such  costs can be  reasonably  estimated.  The  liability
includes  future costs for  remediation  and restoration of sites as well as any
significant  ongoing  monitoring  costs, but excludes any anticipated  insurance
recoveries.  The  majority of the Dec.  27,  1996,  environmental  liability  is
expected  to be paid  out over the next  five to  seven  years,  funded  by cash
generated from operations.

    The company does not currently possess sufficient  information to reasonably
estimate  the  amounts of  additional  liabilities,  if any, on some sites until
completion of future  environmental  studies. In addition,  latent conditions at
any given location could result in exposure, the amount and materiality of which
cannot  presently  be  reliably  estimated.  Based  upon  information  currently
available,  however,  the company believes that its  environmental  reserves are
adequate  to  accomplish  remedial  actions  to  comply  with  present  laws and
regulations,  and  that  the  ultimate  liability  for  these  matters  will not
materially affect its overall results of operations and financial condition.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

Legal Proceedings

    A number of legal actions, other than environmental, are pending against CSX
and certain subsidiaries in which claims are made in substantial amounts.  While
the  ultimate  results  of  environmental  investigations,  lawsuits  and claims
involving the company cannot be predicted with  certainty,  management  does not
currently  expect that these matters will have a material  adverse effect on the
consolidated  financial  position,  results of operations  and cash flows of the
company.

NOTE 15. SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL DATA - SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.

    During  1987,  Sea-Land  entered into  agreements  to sell and lease back by
charter three new  U.S.-built,  U.S.-flag,  D-7 class container  ships.  CSX has
guaranteed the obligations of Sea-Land  pursuant to the related  charters which,
along  with the  container  ships,  serve  as  collateral  for  debt  securities
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In accordance with
SEC disclosure  requirements,  summarized financial information for Sea-Land and
its consolidated subsidiaries is as follows:

Summary of Operations:                     1996   1995(b)   1994(b)
                                         ------   -------   -------

Operating Revenue                        $4,051    $4,008    $3,492

Operating Expense-- Public                3,648     3,755     3,279
                 -- Affiliated (a)          122       107        57
                                         ------    -------   ------

Operating Income                         $  281    $  146    $  156
                                         ======    ======    ======

Net Earnings                             $   84    $   86    $   73
                                         ======    ======    ======


                                            Dec. 27,       Dec. 29,
Summary of Financial Position:                  1996           1995
                                            --------       --------

Current Assets  -- Public                    $   747       $   713
                -- Affiliated (a)                  1             2

Other Assets    -- Public                      1,829         1,674
                -- Affiliated (a)                 14            --

Current Liabilities -- Public                    725           684
                    -- Affiliated (a)            115            48

Other Liabilities -- Public                      756           718
                  -- Affiliated (a)              347           200

Equity                                           648           739
                                             ========       =======


(a)  Amounts represent activity with CSX affiliated companies.

(b)  Beginning  in  1996,  Sea-Land  assumed  primary  responsibility  for
     direct purchase of transportation from non-affiliated rail carriers.  These
     services were previously purchased through a CSX-affiliated company.
     Operating expense for 1995 and  1994 has been  restated  to  report  this
     activity  as  public expense.


    SL  Alaska  Trade  Company  (SLATCO)  is a special  purpose,  unconsolidated
subsidiary of Sea-Land with  trust-related  assets of $117 million securing $106
million of debt maturing on Oct. 1, 2005. The assets of SLATCO are not available
to  creditors  of  Sea-Land  or its  subsidiaries,  nor  are  the  SLATCO  notes
guaranteed by Sea-Land or any of its subsidiaries.




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

NOTE 16. BUSINESS SEGMENTS.



    The principal components of the business segments are:

Transportation  -  Rail,  container-shipping,  barge,  intermodal  and  contract
logistics operations. The container-shipping  operation reported revenue of $4.1
billion for 1996,  $4.0 billion for 1995 and $3.5 billion for 1994.  Approximate
revenue  allocation by port of origin for 1996, 1995 and 1994 was: North America
- -- 43%; Asia -- 32%; Europe -- 17%; and Other -- 8%. Foreign business activities
outside the  container-shipping  operation do not  contribute  materially to the
company's financial results.

Non-Transportation - Real estate sales and rentals, resort management and resort
operations.

NOTE 17. QUARTERLY DATA (Unaudited).

                                         -----------------------------------

                                           1st     2nd(a)     3rd      4th
                                         ------    ------    ------   ------

Operating Revenue                        $2,514    $2,672    $2,647   $2,703
                                         ======    ======    ======   ======
Operating Income                         $  296    $  408    $  392   $  426
                                         ======    ======    ======   ======
Net Earnings                             $  146    $  234    $  222   $  253
                                         ======    ======    ======   ======
Earnings Per Share                       $  .69    $ 1.11    $ 1.04   $ 1.17
                                         ======    ======    ======   ======




                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (All Tables in Millions of Dollars, Except Per Share Amounts)

                                     ------------------------------------
                                      1st      2nd(c)      3rd     4th(d)
                                     ------    ------    ------    ------

Operating Revenue                    $2,444    $2,549    $2,601    $2,710
                                     ======    ======    ======    ======
Operating Income                     $  276    $   84    $  369    $  397
                                     ======    ======    ======    ======
Net Earnings                         $  121    $   19    $  202    $  276
                                     ======    ======    ======    ======
Earnings Per Share(b)                $  .58    $  .09    $  .96    $ 1.31
                                     ======    ======    ======    ======

(a) In the second quarter of 1996, the company changed its earnings presentation
    to exclude non-transportation activities from operating revenue and expense.
    These  activities,  principally real estate and resort  operations,  are now
    included in other income in the consolidated statement of earnings.  Amounts
    for prior quarters have been restated to conform to the new presentation.

(b) Earnings  per share  amounts  for 1995 have been  restated  to  reflect  the
    2-for-1 stock split distributed to shareholders in December 1995.

(c) The  company  recorded a $257  million  pretax  restructuring  charge in the
    second  quarter of 1995 to recognize the estimated  costs of  initiatives at
    its rail and container-shipping units to revise, restructure and consolidate
    specific  operations and  administrative  functions.  The charge  included a
    write-down  of  technologically  obsolete   telecommunications   assets  and
    provisions for employee separations and exit obligations.  The restructuring
    charge reduced net earnings by $160 million, 76 cents per share.

(d) In  December  1995,  the company  recognized  a net  investment  gain of $77
    million on the  issuance of an equity  interest in a Sea-Land  terminal  and
    related  operations in Asia and the write-down of various  investments.  The
    equity interest portion of the transaction resulted in proceeds of $105
    million, a pretax gain of $93 million,  and increased net earnings by $61
    million, 29 cents per share.


               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of CSX Corporation

    We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  statements  of  financial
position  of CSX  Corporation  and  subsidiaries  as of  December  27,  1996 and
December 29, 1995,  and the related  consolidated  statements of earnings,  cash
flows, and changes in shareholders' equity for each of the three fiscal years in
the  period  ended  December  27,  1996.  These  financial  statements  are  the
responsibility of the company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted  our audits in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
(appearing  on pages  19-42)  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
consolidated  financial position of CSX Corporation and subsidiaries at December
27, 1996 and December 29, 1995, and the consolidated results of their operations
and their cash  flows for each of the three  fiscal  years in the  period  ended
December 27, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                         /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
                                         ---------------------
                                         Ernst & Young LLP

Richmond,  Virginia
January 31, 1997, except for Note 2,
as to which the date is March 7, 1997







                   BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE OFFICERS

                               BOARD OF DIRECTORS

                            Elizabeth E. Bailey(b,d)
            John C. Hower Professor of Public Policy and Management
       The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

                           Robert L. Burrus Jr.(d,e)
                              Partner and Chairman
                 McGuire, Woods, Battle & Boothe, Richmond, Va.

                             Bruce C. Gottwald(d,e)
                                Chairman and CEO
                        Ethyl Corporation, Richmond, Va.

                               John R. Hall(b,c)
                            Retired Chairman and CEO
                           Ashland Inc., Ashland, Ky.

                             Robert D. Kunisch(a,c)
                          Chairman, President and CEO
                       PHH Corporation, Hunt Valley, Md.

                            Hugh L. McColl Jr.(b,d)
                                      CEO
                       NationsBank Corp., Charlotte, N.C.

                            James W. McGlothlin(a,e)
                                Chairman and CEO
                        The United Company, Bristol, Va.

                          Southwood J. Morcott(a,b,d)
                                Chairman and CEO
                         Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio

                             Charles E. Rice(a,b,c)
                                Chairman and CEO
                     Barnett Banks Inc., Jacksonville, Fla.

                           William C. Richardson(c,e)
                               President and CEO
                  W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, Mich.

                            Frank S. Royal, M.D.(c)
               Physician and Health Care Authority, Richmond, Va.

                                John W. Snow(a)
                          Chairman, President and CEO
                         CSX Corporation, Richmond, Va.

                         Key to committees of the board
a - Executive     b - Audit   c - Compensation     d - Pension
e - Organization & Corporate Responsibility

                             CSX CORPORATE OFFICERS

John W. Snow, 57* Chairman, President and CEO, elected February 1991

Mark G. Aron, 54* Executive Vice President-Law and Public Affairs, elected April
1995(1)

Paul R. Goodwin, 54* Executive Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial
Officer, elected April 1995(2)

Arnold I. Havens, 49 Vice President-Federal Affairs, elected February 1997

Thomas E. Hoppin, 55 Vice President-Corporate Communications, elected July 1986

Richard H. Klem, 52* Vice President-Corporate Strategy, elected May 1992(3)

William F. Miller, 54 Vice President-Audit and Advisory Services, elected
September 1996

Jesse R. Mohorovic, 54* Vice President-Executive Department, elected February
1995(4)

James P. Peter, 46 Vice President-Taxes, elected June 1993

Woodruff M. Price, 61 Vice President-Public Policy, elected February 1997

James L. Ross, 58* Vice President and Controller, elected May 1996(5)

Alan A. Rudnick, 49 Vice President-General Counsel and Corporate Secretary,
elected June 1991

Michael J. Ruehling, 49 Vice President-State Relations, elected January 1995

James A. Searle Jr., 50 Vice President-Administration, elected April 1996

Peter J. Shudtz, 48 General Counsel, elected September 1991

William H. Sparrow, 53* Vice President-Financial Planning, elected February
1996(6)

Gregory R. Weber,  51* Vice President and Treasurer, elected May 1996(7)





                                 UNIT OFFICERS


                             CSX TRANSPORTATION INC.

Alvin R. (Pete) Carpenter, 55* President and CEO, since January 1992

John Q. Anderson, 45* Executive Vice President-Sales & Marketing, since May
1996(8)

Donald D. Davis, 57* Senior Vice President-Employee Relations, since November

Gerald L. Nichols,  61* Executive  Vice President and COO, since February
1995(9)  Michael J. Ward, 46* Executive Vice President-Finance and CFO, since
June 1996(10)

                             SEA-LAND SERVICE INC.

John P. Clancey, 52* President and CEO, since August 1991

Andrew B. Fogarty, 51* Senior Vice President-Finance and Planning, since June
1996(11)

Robert J. Grassi, 50* Senior Vice President-Atlantic, AME Services, since June
1996(12)

Richard E. Murphy, 52* Senior Vice President-Corporate Marketing, since June
1996(13)

Charles G. Raymond, 53* Senior Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer,
since May 1995(14)

                              CSX INTERMODAL INC.
   Ronald T. Sorrow, 50* Chairman, President and CEO, since January 1997(15)

                         AMERICAN COMMERCIAL LINES INC.
          Michael C. Hagan, 50* President and CEO, since May 1992(16)

                         CUSTOMIZED TRANSPORTATION INC.
           David G. Kulik, 48 President and CEO, since December 1994

                                 THE GREENBRIER
    Ted J. Kleisner, 52 President and Managing Director, since January 1989


                           YUKON PACIFIC CORPORATION
          Jeff B. Lowenfels, 48 President and CEO, since February 1995

 * Executive officers of the corporation.  Executive officers of CSX Corporation
   are  elected by the CSX board of  directors  and hold  office  until the next
   annual  election  of  officers.  Officers of CSX  business  units are elected
   annually by the respective  boards of directors of the business units.  There
   are no family  relationships or any arrangement or understanding  between any
   officer an any other person pursuant to which such officer was selected.  All
   of the executive  officers  listed have held their  current  positions for at
   least 5 years except as noted below:

1) Prior to April 1995, Mr. Aron served as Sr. VP-Law and Public Affairs.

2) Prior to April  1995,  Mr.  Goodwin  served  as an  officer  of CSXT as Exec.
   VP-Finance  and  Administration  from  February  1995 to April  1995;  as Sr.
   VP-Finance  from  April  1992 to  February  1995;  and prior  thereto  as Sr.
   VP-Finance.

3) Prior to May 1992, Mr. Klem served as VP-Economic Analysis and Corporate
   Strategy.

4) Prior to February 1995, Mr. Mohorovic served as VP-Corporate Communications,
   CSXT, from April 1994 to February 1995, and prior thereto as VP-Corporate
   Communications, Sea-Land.

5) Prior to May 1996, Mr. Ross served as CSX VP-Special Projects from October
   1995 to May 1996, and prior thereto as a Partner with Ernst & Young, LLP.

6) Prior to February 1996, Mr. Sparrow served as VP-Capital Planning and
   Budgeting from May 1994 to February 1996 and prior thereto as VP and
   Treasurer.

7) Prior to May 1996, Mr. Weber served as VP, Controller and Treasurer, from May
   1994 to May 1996, and prior thereto as VP and Controller.

8) Prior to May 1996, Mr. Anderson served as Sr. VP for Burlington Northern
   Santa Fe Railway from 1995 to May 1996 and prior thereto as Executive VP of
   Burlington Northern Railroad.

9) Prior to February 1995, Mr. Nichols served as Sr. VP-Administration of CSXT.

10) Prior to June 1996, Mr. Ward served as an officer of CSXT as Sr. VP-Finance
    from April 1995 to June 1996; General Manager-C&O Business Unit from 1994 to
    April 1995; and prior thereto as VP-Coal.

11) Prior to June 1996, Mr. Fogarty served as CSX VP-Audit and Advisory
    Services from  March  1995  to  June  1996,  and  prior  thereto  as CSX
    VP-Executive Department.

12) Prior to June 1996, Mr. Grassi served as Sea-Land Sr. VP-Finance and
    Planning.

13) Prior to June 1996,  Mr. Murphy served as Sea-Land  VP-Atlantic  and AME
    from 1995 to June  1996;  Sr.  VP-Pacific  Services  from 1993 to 1995;  and
    prior thereto as VP-Pacific Services.

14) Prior to May 1995, Mr. Raymond served as Sea-Land Sr. VP-Operations and
    Inland Transportation.

15) Prior to January  1997,  Mr.  Sorrow  served as CSXI  President  and CEO
    from January 1996 to January 1997 and prior  thereto as VP-Sales and
    Marketing of CSXI.

16) Prior to  May 1992, Mr. Hagan served as President and COO of ACL.




                             CORPORATE INFORMATION

Headquarters
One James Center
901 East Cary Street
Richmond, VA 23219-4031
(804) 782-1400
(http://www.csx.com)

Market Information

    CSX's  common  stock is  listed  on the New York,  London  and  Swiss  stock
exchanges  and  trades  with  unlisted   privileges  on  the  Midwest,   Boston,
Cincinnati,  Pacific and  Philadelphia  stock  exchanges.  The official  trading
symbol is "CSX."

Description of Common and Preferred Stocks

    A total of 300  million  shares  of  common  stock is  authorized,  of which
216,885,140  shares were outstanding as of Dec. 27, 1996. Each share is entitled
to one  vote in all  matters  requiring  a vote of  shareholders.  There  are no
pre-emptive rights.

    A total of 25 million  shares of  preferred  stock is  authorized.  Series A
consists of 250,000 shares of $7 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock. All
outstanding  shares of Series A Preferred Stock were redeemed as of July 31,
1992.

    Series B  consists  of 3 million  shares of Junior  Participating  Preferred
Stock, none of which has been issued. These shares will become issuable only and
when the rights distributed to holders of common stock under the Preferred Share
Rights Plan  adopted by CSX on June 8, 1988,  become  exercisable.

               Closing Price of Common Stock at Fiscal Year-End
                                  (Dollars)

                                   [GRAPH]

                    '92      '93      '94      '95      '96
                   $34.38   $40.94   $34.82   $45.63   $42.88



Common Stock Price Range and Dividends Per Share

Fiscal Year                           1996
                     ---------------------------------------

Quarter                 1st        2nd        3rd        4th
                     ---------------------------------------
Market Price
   High              $48.50     $53.13     $53.00     $52.38
   Low               $42.25     $44.13     $42.25     $42.50
Dividends Per Share  $  .26     $  .26     $  .26     $  .26
                     =======================================


Fiscal Year                           1995
                     ---------------------------------------
Quarter                 1st        2nd        3rd        4th
Market Price         ---------------------------------------
   High              $39.88     $41.00     $44.63     $46.13
   Low               $34.63     $36.00     $37.44     $39.06
Dividends Per Share  $  .22     $  .22     $  .22     $  .26
                     =======================================


Fiscal Year                           1994
                      --------------------------------------
Quarter                 1st        2nd        3rd        4th
Market Price          --------------------------------------
   High              $46.19     $41.63     $39.57     $37.25
   Low               $39.94     $35.50     $33.00     $31.57
Dividends Per Share  $  .22     $  .22     $  .22     $  .22
                     =======================================


Fiscal Year                           1993
                     ---------------------------------------
Quarter                 1st        2nd        3rd        4th
Market Price         ---------------------------------------
   High              $39.98     $39.07     $40.13     $44.07
   Low               $33.57     $33.19     $33.94     $37.44
Dividends Per Share  $  .19     $  .19     $  .19     $  .22
                     =======================================


Fiscal Year                           1992
                      --------------------------------------
Quarter                 1st        2nd        3rd        4th
Market Price          --------------------------------------
   High              $31.00     $33.75     $33.88     $36.82
   Low               $27.44     $27.75     $28.32     $27.25
Dividends Per Share  $  .19     $  .19     $  .19     $  .19
                     =======================================

(All data adjusted for 2-for-1 split of common stock effective Dec. 21, 1995.)


Common Stock Shares Outstanding, Number of Registered Shareholders



Shares Outstanding as of Jan. 24, 1997: 216,898,817
Common Stock Shareholders as of Jan. 24, 1997: 55,074





SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION

Shareholder Services
    Shareholders with questions about their accounts should contact the transfer
agent at the address or telephone number shown below.
    General questions about CSX or information contained in company publications
should be directed to corporate communications at the address or telephone
number shown below.
    Security analysts, portfolio managers or other investment community
representatives should contact investor relations at
the address or telephone number shown below.

Transfer Agent, Registrar and
Dividend Disbursing Agent
Harris Trust Company
P.O. Box A3504
Chicago, IL 60690
(800) 521-5571
(312) 461-4061, in Illinois

Shareholder Relations
Anne B. Taylor
Administrator-Shareholder
   Services
CSX Corporation
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-1465

Corporate Communications
Elisabeth Gabrynowicz
Director-Corporate
   Communications
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-6775

Investor Relations
Joseph C. Wilkinson
Director-Investor Relations
CSX Corporation
P.O. Box 85629
Richmond, VA 23285-5629
(804) 782-1553

Stock Held in Brokerage Accounts
    When a broker holds your stock, it is usually registered in the broker's
name, or "street name." We do not know the identity of individual shareholders
who hold stock in this manner. We know only that a broker holds a certain number
of shares that may be for any number of customers. If your stock is in a
street-name account, you are not eligible to participate in the company's
Dividend Reinvestment Plan. Also, you will receive your dividend payments,
annual reports and proxy materials through your broker. You should notify your
broker, not Harris Trust, if you wish to eliminate unwanted, duplicate mailings
and improve the timeliness on the delivery of these materials and your dividend
payments.

Lost or Stolen Stock Certificates
    If your stock certificates are lost, stolen or in some way destroyed, you
should notify Harris Trust in writing immediately.

Multiple Dividend Checks and Duplicate Mailings
    Some shareholders hold their stock on CSX records in similar but different
names (e.g. John A. Smith and J.A. Smith). When this occurs, we are required to
create separate accounts for each name. Although the mailing addresses are the
same, we are required to mail separate dividend checks to each account.
Duplicate mailings of annual reports can be eliminated if you send the labels or
copies of the labels from a CSX mailing to Harris Trust. You should mark the
labels to indicate names to be kept on the mailing list and names to be deleted.
However, this action will affect mailings of financial materials only. Dividend
checks and proxy materials will continue to be sent to each account.

Consolidating Accounts
    If you want to consolidate separate accounts into one account, you should
contact Harris Trust for the necessary forms and instructions. When accounts are
consolidated, it may be necessary to reissue the stock certificates.

Dividends
    CSX pays quarterly dividends on its common stock on or about the 15th of
March, June, September and December, when declared by the board of directors, to
shareholders of record approximately three weeks earlier. CSX now offers direct
deposit of dividends to shareholders who request it. If you are interested,
please contact Harris Trust at the address or phone number shown above.

Replacing Dividend Checks
    If you do not receive your dividend check within 10 business days after the
payment date or if your check is lost or destroyed, you should notify Harris
Trust so payment on the check can be stopped and a replacement issued.

Dividend Reinvestment
    CSX provides dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans for shareholders
of record and employees as a convenient method of acquiring additional CSX
shares by reinvestment of dividends or by optional cash payments, or both.
    The Shareholders Dividend Reinvestment Plan permits automatic reinvestment
of common stock dividends without payment of any brokerage commission or service
charge. In fact, under the plan, you may elect to continue receiving dividend
payments while making cash payments of up to $1,500 per month for investment in
additional CSX shares without any fee.
    For a prospectus or other information on the plan, write or call the Harris
Trust Dividend Reinvestment Department at the address or telephone number shown
above.



    Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d)  of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly  authorized,  on the 14th day of
March 1997.

                                   CSX Corporation

                                   By: /s/ JAMES L. ROSS
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       James L. Ross
                                       Vice President and Controller

    Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures               Title

John W. Snow             Chairman of the Board, President,
                         Chief Executive Officer and Director
                         (Principal Executive Officer)*

Paul R. Goodwin          Executive Vice President-Finance
                         (Principal Financial Officer)*

Elizabeth E. Bailey      Director*

Robert L. Burrus Jr.     Director*

Bruce C. Gottwald        Director*

John R. Hall             Director*

Robert D. Kunisch        Director*

Hugh L. McColl Jr.       Director*

James W. McGlothlin      Director*

Southwood J. Morcott     Director*

Charles E. Rice          Director*

William C. Richardson    Director*

Frank S. Royal, M.D.     Director*

/s/ PETER J. SHUDTZ
- -----------------------------------
* Peter J. Shudtz, Attorney-in-Fact
  March 14, 1997





                                CSX CORPORATION
                           Statement of Differences

1.      The printed Annual Report and Form 10-K contains numerous graphs and
        photographs not incorporated into the electronic Form 10-K.

2.      The 10-K cover sheet and index, presented on pages 43 and 44 of the
        printed document, have been repositioned to the front of the electronic
        document.






                              Index to Exhibits

Description

  (3.1)  Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by reference
         as Exhibit 3 to Form 10-K dated Feb. 15, 1991)

  (3.2)  Bylaws

 (10.1)  CSX Stock Plan for Directors*

 (10.2)  Special Retirement Plan for CSX Directors*

 (10.3)  Corporate Director Deferred Compensation Plan*

 (10.4)  CSX Directors' Charitable Gift Plan* (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K dated March 4, 1994)

 (10.5)  CSX Directors' Matching Gift Plan* 

 (10.6)  Form of Agreement with J.W. Snow, A.R. Carpenter,
         J.P. Clancey, P.R. Goodwin and G.L. Nichols*
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Form 10-K
         dated March 3, 1995)

 (10.7)  Form of Amendment to Agreement with A.R. Carpenter,
         P.R. Goodwin and G.L. Nichols*

 (10.8)  Form of Amendment to Agreement with J.P. Clancey*

 (10.9)  Form of Retention Agreement with A.R. Carpenter
         and J.P. Clancey* (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K dated Feb. 28, 1992)
         
(10.10)  Agreement with J.W. Snow* (incorporated by reference
         to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K dated March 4, 1994)
         
(10.11)  Amendment to Agreement with J.W. Snow*
         
(10.12)  Agreement with J.W. Snow*
         
(10.13)  Loan Agreement with A.R. Carpenter*
         (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form 10-K
         dated March 1, 1996)
         
(10.14)  Stock Purchase and Loan Plan* (incorporated by reference to
         Exhibit 99 to Form S-8 dated July 31, 1996)
         
(10.15)  1987 Long-Term Performance Stock Plan*
         
(10.16)  1985 Deferred Compensation Program for Executives
         of CSX Corporation and Affiliated Companies*

(10.17)  Supplementary Savings Plan and Incentive Award
         Deferral Plan for Eligible Executives of CSX
         Corporation and Affiliated Companies*

(10.18)  Special Retirement Plan of CSX Corporation and
         Affiliated Companies*

(10.19)  Supplemental Retirement Plan of CSX Corporation
         and Affiliated Companies*
         
(10.20)  1994 Senior Management Incentive  Compensation Plan*  (incorporated by
         reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K dated March 3, 1995)
         
   (21)  Subsidiaries of the Registrant
         
   (23)  Consent of Independent Auditors
         
   (27)  Financial Data Schedule -- Schedule II
         
 *  Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.



