ITEM 1.BUSINESS



GENERAL

Ameren, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a public utility holding company under PUHCA 2005, administered by the FERC. Ameren was formed in 1997 by the merger of Ameren Missouri and CIPSCO Inc., which was the parent company of CIPS. Ameren acquired CILCORP Inc., which was the parent company of CILCO, in 2003 and IP in 2004. CIPS, CILCO, and IP were merged to form Ameren Illinois in 2010. Ameren’s primary assets are its equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate, independent legal entities with separate businesses, assets, and liabilities. Dividends on Ameren’s common stock and the payment of other expenses by Ameren depend on distributions made to it by its subsidiaries.

Below is a summary description of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. A more detailed description can be found in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

•Ameren Missouri operates a rate-regulated electric generation, transmission, and distribution business and a rate-regulated natural gas transmission and distribution business in Missouri.

•Ameren Illinois operates rate-regulated electric and natural gas transmission and distribution businesses in Illinois.

Ameren has various other subsidiaries responsible for activities such as the provision of shared services. Ameren also has a subsidiary, ATXI, that operates a FERC rate-regulated electric transmission business. ATXI is developing MISO-approved electric transmission projects, including the Illinois Rivers, Spoon River, and Mark Twain projects. Ameren is also pursuing reliability projects within Ameren Missouri's and Ameren Illinois' service territories as well as competitive electric transmission investment opportunities outside of these territories, including investments outside of MISO.

In December 2013, Ameren completed the divestiture of New AER to IPH. In January 2014, Medina Valley completed its sale of the Elgin, Gibson City, and Grand Tower gas-fired energy



centers to Rockland Capital. In addition, in 2013, Ameren abandoned the Meredosia and Hutsonville energy centers upon the completion of the divestiture of New AER to IPH. Ameren has begun to demolish the Hutsonville energy center and expects to demolish the Meredosia energy center thereafter. As a result of these events, Ameren segregated the operating results, assets, and liabilities for New AER and for the Elgin, Gibson City, Grand Tower, Meredosia, and Hutsonville energy centers and presented them separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this report. Unless otherwise stated, the following information presented in Part I, Item 1, of this report excludes discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Note 16 – Divestiture Transactions and Discontinued Operations under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information.

The following table presents our total employees atDecember 31, 2014:Ameren Missouri3,924Ameren Illinois3,208Ameren Services and Other1,395Ameren8,527

As of January 1, 2015, the IBEW, the IUOE, the LIUNA, and the UA labor unions collectively represented about 55% of Ameren’s total employees. They represented 63% of the employees at Ameren Missouri and 60% at Ameren Illinois. The collective bargaining agreements have terms ranging from two to six years, and expire between 2015 and 2017.

For additional information about the development of our businesses, our business operations, and factors affecting our operations and financial position, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.













BUSINESS SEGMENTSAmeren has two reportable segments: Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois each have one reportable segment. The Ameren Missouri segment for both Ameren and Ameren Missouri includes all the operations of Ameren Missouri. The Ameren Illinois segment for both Ameren and Ameren Illinois consists of all of the operations of Ameren Illinois. See Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 17 – Segment Information under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information on reporting segments.RATES AND REGULATIONRatesThe rates that Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are allowed to charge for their utility services significantly influence the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of these companies and Ameren. The electric and natural gas utility industry is highly regulated. The utility rates charged to customers are determined, in large part, by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, economic conditions, public policy, and



social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding rates are largely outside of our control. These decisions, as well as the regulatory lag involved in filing and getting new rates approved, could have a material effect on the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of Ameren, Ameren Missouri, and Ameren Illinois. The extent of the regulatory lag varies for each of Ameren's electric and natural gas jurisdictions, with the FERC-regulated electric and Illinois electric distribution jurisdictions experiencing the least amount of regulatory lag. Depending on the jurisdiction, the effects of regulatory lag are mitigated through a variety of means, including the use of a future test year, the implementation of trackers and riders, the deferral of depreciation for assets not yet included in rate base, the level and timing of expenditures, and by regulatory frameworks that include annual revenue requirement reconciliations.

The MoPSC regulates rates and other matters for Ameren Missouri. The ICC regulates rates and other matters for Ameren Illinois, as well as non-rate utility matters for ATXI. ATXI does not have retail distribution customers; therefore, the ICC does not have authority to regulate its rates. The FERC regulates Ameren Missouri's, Ameren Illinois', and ATXI's cost-based rates for the wholesale distribution and transmission of energy in interstate commerce and various other matters discussed below under General Regulatory Matters.



The following table summarizes, by rate jurisdiction, the key terms of the rate orders in effect for customer billings for each of Ameren's rate-regulated utilities as of January 1, 2015.

RegulatorAllowedReturn on EquityPercent ofCommon EquityRate Base            (in billions)Portion of Ameren's 2014 Operating Revenues(a)Ameren MissouriElectric service(b)(c)MoPSC9.8%52.3%$6.856%Natural gas delivery service(d)MoPSC(d)52.9%$0.23%Ameren IllinoisElectric distribution delivery service(e)ICC9.25%51.0%$2.123%Natural gas delivery service(f)ICC9.1%51.7%$1.116%Electric transmission delivery service(g)FERC12.38%53.8%$0.92%ATXIElectric transmission delivery service(g)FERC12.38%56.0%$0.5(h)

(a)Includes pass-through costs recovered from customers, such as purchased power for electric distribution delivery service and gas purchased for resale for natural gas delivery service, and intercompany eliminations.

(b)Ameren Missouri's electric generation, transmission, and delivery service rates are bundled together and charged to retail customers under a combined electric service rate.

(c)Based on the MoPSC's December 2012 rate order, which became effective on January 2, 2013. Ameren Missouri will have new electric service rates effective by June 2015, upon the completion of its rate case proceeding that was filed in July 2014.

(d)Based on the MoPSC's January 2011 rate order, which became effective on February 20, 2011. This rate order did not specify the allowed return on equity.

(e)Based on the ICC's December 2014 rate order, which became effective on January 1, 2015. The December 2014 rate order was based on 2013 recoverable costs, expected net plant additions for 2014, and the monthly yields during 2013 of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Ameren Illinois' 2015 electric distribution delivery service revenues will be based on its 2015 actual recoverable costs, rate base, and return on common equity, as calculated under the IEIMA's performance-based formula ratemaking framework.

(f)Based on the ICC's December 2013 rate order, which became effective on January 1, 2014. The rate order was based on a 2014 future test year.

(g)Transmission rates are updated and become effective each January. They are determined by a company-specific, forward-looking rate formula based on each year's forecasted information. The 12.38% return is the subject of two FERC complaint proceedings that challenge the allowed return on common equity for MISO transmission owners.

(h)Less than 1%.









Ameren Missouri

Electric

Ameren Missouri’s electric operating revenues are subject to regulation by the MoPSC. If certain criteria are met, then Ameren Missouri’s electric rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. The FAC permits Ameren Missouri to recover, through customer rates, 95% of changes in net energy costs greater than or less than the amount set in base rates without a traditional rate proceeding, subject to prudence reviews. Net energy costs, as defined in the FAC, include fuel and purchased power costs, including transportation charges and revenues, net of off-system sales. Similarly, all of Ameren Missouri's MEEIA costs, including customer energy efficiency program costs, lost revenues, and any incentive awards, are recovered through a rider that may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding.

In addition to the FAC and the MEEIA recovery mechanisms, Ameren Missouri employs other cost recovery mechanisms, including a vegetation management and infrastructure inspection cost tracker, a pension and postretirement benefit cost tracker, an uncertain tax position tracker, a renewable energy standards cost tracker, a solar rebate program tracker, and a storm cost tracker. Each of these trackers allows Ameren Missouri to record the difference between the level of incurred costs under GAAP and the level of such costs built into rates as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability, which will be included in rates in a future MoPSC rate order.

The FERC regulates the rates charged and the terms and conditions for electric transmission services. Because Ameren Missouri is a member of MISO, its transmission rate is calculated in accordance with the MISO OATT. The transmission rate is updated each June based on Ameren Missouri’s filings with the FERC. This rate is not directly charged to Missouri retail customers because, in Missouri, the MoPSC includes transmission-related costs and revenues in bundled retail rates. As discussed above, Ameren Missouri transportation charges and revenues are included in the FAC.

Natural Gas

Ameren Missouri’s natural gas operating revenues are subject to regulation by the MoPSC. If certain criteria are met, then Ameren Missouri’s natural gas rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. PGA clauses permit prudently incurred natural gas costs to be passed directly to customers. The ISRS also permits certain prudently incurred natural gas infrastructure replacement costs to be recovered from customers on a more timely basis between rate cases. The return on equity to be used by Ameren Missouri for purposes of the ISRS tariff is 10%.



Ameren Illinois

Electric

Ameren Illinois' electric distribution delivery service operating revenues are regulated by the ICC, while its electric transmission delivery service operating revenues are regulated by the FERC. In 2014, Ameren Illinois' electric distribution delivery service accounted for 91% of its total electric operating revenues. The remainder were related to electric transmission delivery service.

Under Illinois law, electric customers may choose their own electric energy provider. However, Ameren Illinois is required to serve as the provider of last resort for electric customers within its territory who have not chosen an alternative retail electric supplier. In 2014, Ameren Illinois was the provider of last resort for approximately 26% of electric customers within its territory. Ameren Illinois’ obligation to provide this required electric service varies by customer size. Ameren Illinois is not required to offer fixed-priced electric service to customers with electric demands of 400 kilowatts or greater, as the market for service to this group of customers has been declared competitive. Power and related procurement costs incurred by Ameren Illinois are passed directly to its customers through a cost recovery mechanism.

Ameren Illinois participates in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA. The IEIMA was designed to provide for the recovery of actual costs of electric delivery service that are prudently incurred and to reflect the utility's actual regulated capital structure through a formula for calculating the return on equity component of the cost of capital. The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Ameren Illinois' actual return on equity relating to electric delivery service is subject to a collar adjustment on earnings in excess of 50 basis points greater or less than its allowed return. The IEIMA provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement necessary to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year with the revenue requirement included in customer rates for that year, including an allowed return on equity. This annual revenue reconciliation, along with the collar adjustment, if necessary, will be collected from or refunded to customers within the next two years.

Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards under the IEIMA. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company's allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The performance standards include improvements in service reliability to reduce both the frequency and duration of outages, reduction in the number of estimated bills, reduction of consumption on inactive meters, and a reduction in uncollectible accounts expense. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling up to 30 basis points in 2015, 34 basis points in 2016 through 2018, and 38 basis points in 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met. The formula ratemaking process is currently effective until the end of 2017. Legislation passed by the Illinois General Assembly,











which is awaiting the governor's approval, would extend the formula rate process until the end of 2019, with further extension possible through 2022.

Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required, pursuant to the IEIMA, to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to its average electric delivery service capital projects investments of $228 million for calendar years 2008 through 2010, to modernize its distribution system. Through 2014, Ameren Illinois has invested $149 million in IEIMA capital projects toward its $625 million requirement. Such investments are expected to encourage economic development and to create an estimated 450 additional jobs within Illinois. Ameren Illinois is subject to monetary penalties if 450 additional jobs are not created during the peak program year.

Ameren Illinois employs cost recovery mechanisms for power procurement, customer energy efficiency programs, certain environmental costs, and bad debt expense not recovered in base rates. Ameren Illinois also has a tariff rider to recover the costs of certain asbestos-related claims.

Natural Gas

Ameren Illinois’ natural gas operating revenues are subject to regulation by the ICC. If certain criteria are met, then Ameren Illinois’ natural gas rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. PGA clauses permit prudently incurred natural gas costs to be passed directly to customers. Also, Ameren Illinois employs cost recovery mechanisms for customer energy efficiency programs, certain environmental costs, and bad debt



expenses not recovered in base rates.

In July 2013, Illinois enacted the CSRA, which encourages Illinois natural gas utilities to accelerate modernization of the state's natural gas infrastructure. The law allows natural gas utilities to file for a QIP rider. A QIP rider provides for a surcharge to be added to customers' bills to recover depreciation expense for and to earn a return on qualifying natural gas investments that were not previously included in base rates. Recovery begins two months after the natural gas investments are placed in service and will continue until the investments are included in the base rates of a future natural gas rate case. Ameren Illinois received ICC approval for its QIP rider in January 2015, and subsequently began including qualified investments and recording revenue under this regulatory framework.

In January 2015, Ameren Illinois filed a request with the ICC seeking approval to increase its annual revenues for natural gas delivery service. In an attempt to reduce regulatory lag, Ameren Illinois' request employed a 2016 future test year and also included a proposal to implement a decoupling rider mechanism for residential and small nonresidential customers. This decoupling rider is designed to ensure that changes in natural gas sales volumes do not affect Ameren Illinois' annual revenues for these rate classes. A decision by the ICC in this proceeding is required by December 2015.

ATXI

The three MISO-approved multi-value projects being developed by ATXI are the Illinois Rivers, Spoon River, and Mark Twain projects. The first project, Illinois Rivers, involves the construction of a 345-kilovolt line from western Indiana across the











state of Illinois to eastern Missouri. ATXI has obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity and project approval from the ICC for the entire Illinois Rivers project. A full range of construction activities for the Illinois Rivers project began in 2014. The first sections of the Illinois Rivers project are expected to be completed in 2016. The last section of this project is expected to be completed in 2019. The Spoon River project is in northwest Illinois and the Mark Twain project is in northeast Missouri. In August 2014, ATXI filed a request for a certificate of public convenience and necessity and project approval from the ICC for the Spoon River project. A decision is expected from the ICC in 2015. ATXI expects to file a request for a certificate of public convenience and necessity and project approval from the MoPSC for the Mark Twain project in 2015. These two projects are expected to be completed in 2018. The total investment by ATXI in these three projects is expected to be more than $1.6 billion.

For additional information on Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI rate matters, including the FERC complaint cases challenging the allowed return on common equity for MISO transmission owners, see Results of Operations and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

General Regulatory Matters

Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI must receive FERC approval to enter into various transactions, such as issuing short-term debt securities and conducting certain acquisitions, mergers, and consolidations involving electric utility holding companies. In addition, Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI must receive authorization from the applicable state public utility regulatory agency to issue stock and long-term debt securities (with maturities of more than 12 months) and to conduct mergers, affiliate transactions, and various other activities.

Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are also subject to mandatory reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards adopted by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the bulk power electric system. These standards are developed and enforced by NERC pursuant to authority given to it by the FERC. If Ameren or its subsidiaries were determined not to be in compliance with any of these mandatory reliability standards, they could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions.

Under PUHCA 2005, the FERC and any state public utility regulatory agency may access books and records of Ameren and its subsidiaries that are determined to be relevant to costs incurred by Ameren’s rate-regulated subsidiaries that may affect jurisdictional rates. PUHCA 2005 also permits the MoPSC and the ICC to request that the FERC review cost allocations by Ameren Services to other Ameren companies.



Operation of Ameren Missouri’s Callaway energy center is subject to regulation by the NRC. Its facility operating license expires in October 2024. In December 2011, Ameren Missouri submitted an application to the NRC to extend the energy center's operating license to 2044. There is no date by which the NRC must act on this relicensing request. Ameren Missouri’s Osage hydroelectric energy center and Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center, as licensed projects under the Federal Power Act, are subject to FERC regulations affecting, among other aspects, the general operation and maintenance of the projects. The license for the Osage hydroelectric energy center expires in March 2047. The license for the Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center expires in June 2044. Ameren Missouri’s Keokuk energy center and its dam in the Mississippi River between Hamilton, Illinois, and Keokuk, Iowa, are operated under authority granted by an Act of Congress in 1905.

For additional information on regulatory matters, see Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental statutes and regulations relating to the safety and health of personnel, the public, and the environment. These environmental statutes and regulations include requirements relating to identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, reporting, and emergency response in connection with hazardous and toxic materials; safety and health standards; and environmental protection requirements, including standards and limitations relating to the discharge of air and water pollutants and the management of waste and byproduct materials. Failure to comply with these statutes or regulations could have material adverse effects on us. We could be subject to criminal or civil penalties by regulatory agencies or we could be ordered by the courts to pay private parties. Except as indicated in this report, we believe that we are in material compliance with existing statutes and regulations that currently apply to our operations.

The EPA is developing and implementing environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be costly for certain companies, including Ameren Missouri, that operate coal-fired power plants. Significant new rules proposed or promulgated include the regulation of CO2emissions from  existing power plants through the proposed Clean Power Plan and from new power plants through the revised NSPS; revised national ambient air quality standards for ozone, fine particulates, SO2,and NOxemissions; the CSAPR, which requires further reductions of SO2emissions and NOxemissions from power plants; a regulation governing management of CCR and CCR impoundments; the MATS, which require reduction of emissions of mercury, toxic metals, and acid gases from power plants; revised NSPS for particulate matter, SO2, and NOxemissions from new sources; new effluent standards applicable to waste











water discharges from power plants and new regulations under the Clean Water Act that could require significant capital expenditures, such as modifications to water intake structures or new cooling towers at Ameren Missouri’s energy centers. Certain of these new and proposed regulations, if adopted, are likely to be challenged through litigation, so their ultimate implementation, as well as the timing of any such implementation, is uncertain. Although many details of the future regulations are unknown, the combined effects of the new and proposed environmental regulations could result in significant capital expenditures and increased operating costs for Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive, result in the closure or alteration of the operation of some of Ameren Missouri’s energy centers, or require capital investment. Ameren and Ameren Missouri expect these costs would be recoverable through rates, subject to MoPSC prudence review, but the nature and timing of costs, as well as the applicable regulatory framework, could result in regulatory lag. These new and proposed environmental regulations could also impact the cost of, and demand for, power and natural gas, which is acquired for Ameren Missouri's natural gas customers and Ameren Illinois' electric and natural gas customers.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, including NOx, SO2, and mercury emission reduction requirements, proposed reductions to CO2emissions, remediation efforts, CCR management regulations, and a discussion of the EPA’s allegations of violations of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law in connection with projects at Ameren Missouri's Rush Island energy center, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.



TRANSMISSION AND SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC POWER

Ameren owns an integrated transmission system that is comprised of the transmission assets of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. Ameren also operates two balancing authority areas: AMMO and AMIL. During 2014, the peak demand was 8,199 megawatts in AMMO and 8,913 megawatts in AMIL. The Ameren transmission system directly connects with 15 other balancing authority areas for the exchange of electric energy.

Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are transmission-owning members of MISO. Ameren Missouri is authorized by the MoPSC to participate in MISO through May 2018. Ameren Missouri is required to file a study with the MoPSC in November 2017, as it has done periodically since it began participating in MISO in 2003, that evaluates the costs and benefits of Ameren Missouri's continued participation in MISO beyond May 2018.

The Ameren Companies are members of the SERC. The SERC is responsible for the bulk electric power system in all or portions of Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama,



Louisiana, Virginia, Florida, Oklahoma, Iowa, and Texas. Owners and operators, including the Ameren Companies, of the bulk electric power system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by the NERC and its regional entities, such as the SERC, which are all enforced by the FERC.

Ameren Missouri

Ameren Missouri’s electric supply is primarily generated from its energy centers. Factors that could cause Ameren Missouri to purchase power include, among other things, absence of sufficient owned generation, energy center outages, the fulfillment of renewable energy portfolio requirements, the failure of suppliers to meet their power supply obligations, extreme weather conditions, and the availability of power at a cost lower than its generation cost.

Ameren Missouri continues to evaluate its longer-term needs for new baseload capacity, including nuclear and peaking electric generation capacity.The potential need for new energy center construction is dependent on several key factors, including continuation of, and customer participation in, energy efficiency programs beyond 2015, load growth, and the potential for more stringent environmental regulation of coal-fired power plants, which could lead to the retirement of current baseload assets or alterations in the manner in which those assets operate. Because of the significant time required to plan, acquire permits for, and build a baseload energy center, Ameren Missouri continues to study alternatives and is taking steps to preserve options to meet future demand. Steps include evaluating the potential forfurther customer energy efficiency programs and evaluating potential sites for natural-gas-fired generation. Additional steps include maintaining options for future nuclear generation and obtaining an operating license extension for the existing Callaway energy center from 2024 until 2044. Ameren Missouri is also exploring options to expand renewable generation and further diversify its generation portfolio.

Ameren Missouri filed its integrated resource plan with the MoPSC in October 2014. The integrated resource plan is a 20-year plan that supports a more fuel-diverse energy portfolio in Missouri, including coal, solar, wind, natural gas and nuclear power. The plan includes expanding renewable generation, retiring coal-fired generation as energy centers reach the end of their useful lives, and adding natural-gas-fired combined cycle generation. Ameren Missouri continues to study alternatives, including additional customer energy efficiency programs, that could help defer new energy center construction.

See also Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

Ameren Illinois

Any electric supply purchased by Ameren Illinois for its retail customers comes either through procurement processes conducted by the IPA or through markets operated by MISO. The











IPA administers an RFP process through which Ameren Illinois procures its expected supply obligation. The power and related procurement costs incurred by Ameren Illinois are passed directly to its customers through a cost recovery mechanism.Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service rates are regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase power from an alternative retail electric supplier. In 2014, approximately741,000retail customers representing 74% of Ameren Illinois' annual retail kilowatthour sales had elected topurchase their electricity from alternative retail electric suppliers. Ameren Illinois continues to collect delivery charges for distribution and transmission services from customers who purchase electricity from alternative retail electric suppliers.See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 14 – Related Party Transactions and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information on power procurement in Illinois.





POWER GENERATION

The following table presents the source of Ameren's and Ameren Missouri's electric generation, excluding purchased power, for the years endedDecember 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:CoalNuclearNatural Gas/OilRenewables(a)201476%21%(b)3%20137719(b)32012732412

(a)Renewable power generation includes production from Ameren Missouri's hydroelectric, methane gas, and solar energy centers but excludes purchased renewable energy credits.

(b)Less than 1% of total fuel supply.

The following table presents the cost of fuels for electric generation for the years endedDecember 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:

Cost of Fuels(dollars per mmbtu)201420132012Coal(a)$2.151$2.050$1.925Nuclear0.9180.9420.964Natural gas(b)11.2267.9074.517Weighted average – all fuels(c)$1.936$1.874$1.743

(a)Represents the cost of coal and the costs for transportation, which include hedges for railroad diesel fuel surcharges.

(b)Represents the cost of natural gas and fixed and variable costs for transportation, storage, balancing, and fuel losses for delivery to the energy center.

(c)Represents all costs, including transportation, for fuels used in our energy centers, including coal, nuclear, natural gas, methane gas, oil, and propane. Methane gas, oil, and propane are not individually listed in this table because their use is minimal.

CoalAmeren Missouri has an ongoing need for coal for generation, so it pursues a price-hedging strategy consistent with this requirement. Ameren Missouri has agreements in place to purchase coal and to transport it to energy centers. Coal supply agreements for Ameren Missouri expire at the end of 2017. Coal transport agreements for Ameren Missouri expire at the end of 2019. Ameren Missouri has coal transport agreements with Union Pacific Railroad and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged 100% of its expected coal supply and coal transportation requirements for generation in 2015. Ameren Missouri burned 20 million tons of coal in 2014.About 98% of Ameren Missouri’s coal is purchased from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. The remaining coal is typically purchased from the Illinois Basin. Inventory may be adjusted because of generation levels or uncertainties of supply due to potential work stoppages, delays in coal deliveries, equipment breakdowns, and other factors. Deliveries from the Powder River Basin have occasionally been restricted because of rail congestion and maintenance, derailments, and weather. As ofDecember 31, 2014, coal inventories for Ameren Missouri were below targeted levels due to delivery delays. Disruptions in coal



deliveries could cause Ameren Missouri to pursue a strategy that could include reducing sales of power during low-margin periods, buying higher-cost fuels to generate required electricity, and purchasing power from other sources.NuclearThe production of nuclear fuel involves the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride gas, the enrichment of that gas, the conversion of the enriched uranium hexafluoride gas into uranium dioxide fuel pellets and the fabrication into usable fuel assemblies. Ameren Missouri has entered into uranium, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment, and fabrication contracts to procure the fuel supply for its Callaway nuclear energy center.The Callaway energy center requires refueling at 18-month intervals. The last refueling was completed in November 2014. The next refueling is scheduled for spring 2016. There is no refueling scheduled for 2015 and 2018. Ameren Missouri currently has agreements or inventories to price-hedge approximately 97%, 71%, and 60% of Callaway's 2016, 2017, and 2019 refueling requirements, respectively. Ameren Missouri has uranium (concentrate and hexafluoride) inventories and











supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium and conversion requirements through at least 2017. Ameren Missouri has enriched uranium inventories and enrichment supply contracts sufficient to satisfy enrichment requirements through at least 2019 andfuel fabrication service contracts through at least 2019. Ameren Missouri expects to enter into additional contracts to purchase nuclear fuel. The nuclear fuel markets are competitive, and prices can be volatile; however, Ameren Missouri does not anticipate any significant problems in meeting its future supply requirements.

Natural Gas Supply for Generation

To maintain deliveries to natural-gas-fired energy centers throughout the year, especially during the summer peak demand, Ameren Missouri’s portfolio of natural gas supply resources includes firm transportation capacity and firm no-notice storage capacity leased from interstate pipelines. Ameren Missouri primarily uses the interstate pipeline systems of Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, Trunkline Gas Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, and Mississippi River Transmission Corporation to transport natural gas to energy centers. In addition to physical transactions, Ameren Missouri uses financial instruments, including some in the NYMEX futures market and some in the OTC financial markets, to hedge the price paid for natural gas.

Ameren Missouri’s natural gas procurement strategy is designed to ensure reliable and immediate delivery of natural gas to its energy centers. This strategy is accomplished by optimizing transportation and storage options and by minimizing cost and price risk through various supply and price-hedging agreements that allow access to multiple gas pools, supply basins, and storage services. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged about 3% of its expected natural gas supply requirements for generation in 2015.

Renewable Energy

Illinois and Missouri have enacted laws requiring electric utilities to include renewable energy resources in their portfolios. Illinois required renewable energy resources to equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that Ameren Illinois supplied to its eligible retail customers as of June 1, 2008, with that percentage increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, and to 25% by June 1, 2025. For the 2014 plan year, Ameren Illinois met its requirement that 9% of its total electricity for eligible retail customers be procured from renewable energy resources. Based on current forecasts, Ameren Illinois has committed to procure sufficient renewable energy credits under the IPA-administered procurement process to meet the renewable energy portfolio requirement through at least May 2017. Ameren Illinois has entered into agreements through 2032 with renewable energy suppliers to obtain renewable energy credits. Approximately 65% of the 2015 plan year renewable energy requirement is expected to be met through these agreements. The remaining requirement will be met through IPA procurements, which resulted in contracts that have terms through December 2017.



In Missouri, utilities are required to purchase or generate electricity equal to at least 2% of native load sales from renewable sources, with that percentage increasing to at least 15% by 2021, subject to a 1% annual limit on customer rate impacts. At least 2% of each renewable energy portfolio requirement must be derived from solar energy. In 2014, Ameren Missouri met its requirement to purchase or generate at least 5% of its native load sales from renewable energy resources. Ameren Missouri expects to satisfy the nonsolar requirement into 2018 with its Keokuk energy center, its Maryland Heights energy center, and with a 102-megawatt power purchase agreement through June 2024 with a wind farm operator in Iowa. The Maryland Heights energy center generates electricity by burning methane gas collected from a landfill. Ameren Missouri is meeting the solar energy requirement through the purchase of solar-generated renewable energy credits from customer-installed systems and generation from its O'Fallon energy center.

Under the same Missouri statute that requires utilities to purchase or generate electricity from renewable sources, Ameren Missouri is required to have a rebate program to provide an incentive for customers to install solar generation on their premises. In accordance with the statute and a 2013 MoPSC order, Ameren Missouri is required to provide $92 million of solar rebates by 2020, which was substantially completed by December 31, 2014. Also included in its 2013 order, the MoPSC authorized Ameren Missouri to employ a tracker to allow Ameren Missouri to record the costs it incurred under its solar rebate program as a regulatory asset. Ameren Missouri expects to recover the costs of these rebates, along with the estimated $9 million carrying cost of the regulatory asset, over a three-year period beginning with the effective date of rates in its July 2014 electric rate case.

Energy Efficiency

Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois have implemented energy efficiency programs to educate and help their customers become more efficient users of energy. In Missouri, the MEEIA established a regulatory framework that, among other things, allows electric utilities to recover costs related to MoPSC-approved customer energy efficiency programs. The law requires the MoPSC to ensure that a utility’s financial incentives are aligned to help customers use energy more efficiently, to provide timely cost recovery, and to provide earnings opportunities associated with cost-effective energy efficiency programs. Missouri does not have a law mandating energy efficiency standards.

The MoPSC's December 2012 electric rate order approved Ameren Missouri's implementation of the MEEIA megawatthour savings targets, customer energy efficiency programs, and associated cost recovery mechanisms and incentive awards. Ameren Missouri invested $76 million in these programs through 2014 and expects to invest an additional $71 million in 2015. A MEEIA rider allows Ameren Missouri to collect from or refund to customers any annual difference in the actual amounts incurred and the amounts collected from customers for the MEEIA program costs and its lost revenues.











Additionally, the MEEIA provides for incentive awards that would allow Ameren Missouri to earn additional revenues by achieving certain energy efficiency goals. Under its current  energy efficiency plan, which is effective for 2013 through 2015, Ameren Missouri can earn approximately $19 million if 100% of its energy efficiency goals are achieved during that time period, with the potential to earn more if energy savings exceed those goals. Ameren Missouri must achieve at least 70% of its energy efficiency goals before it can earn any incentive award. The recovery of the incentive award from customers, if the energy efficiency goals are achieved, is expected in 2017 through the above-mentioned rider.

In December 2014, Ameren Missouri filed an energy efficiency plan with the MoPSC under the MEEIA. This filing proposed a three-year plan that includes a portfolio of customer energy efficiency programs along with a cost recovery mechanism. If the plan is approved, beginning in January 2016, Ameren Missouri intends to invest $135 million over three years in the proposed customer energy efficiency programs. Ameren Missouri requested continued use of a MEEIA rider that allows it to collect from or refund to customers any difference in the actual amounts incurred and the amounts collected from customers for the MEEIA program costs and its lost revenues. In addition, Ameren Missouri requested incentives to earn additional revenues by achieving certain energy efficiency goals, including approximately $25 million if 100% of its energy efficiency goals are achieved during the three-year period. See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information.

Illinois has enacted a law requiring Ameren Illinois to offer customer energy efficiency programs. The law also allows recovery mechanisms of the programs’ costs. The ICC has issued orders approving Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas energy efficiency plans as well as cost recovery mechanisms by which program costs can be recovered from customers. Additionally, as part of its IEIMA upgrades, Ameren Illinois expects to invest $360 million in smart grid infrastructure, including smart meters that enable customers to improve energy efficiency. Ameren Illinois began the installation of smart meters in 2014.



NATURAL GAS SUPPLY FOR DISTRIBUTION

Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are responsible for the purchase and delivery of natural gas to their utility customers. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois each develop and manage a portfolio of natural gas supply resources. These resources include firm gas supply under term agreements with producers, interstate and intrastate firm transportation capacity, firm storage capacity leased from interstate pipelines, and on-system storage facilities to maintain natural gas deliveries to customers throughout the year and especially during peak demand periods. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois primarily use Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, Trunkline Gas Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Mississippi River Transmission Corporation, Northern Border Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation interstate pipeline



systems to transport natural gas to their systems. In addition to transactions requiring physical delivery, financial instruments, including those entered into in the NYMEX futures market and in the OTC financial markets, are used to hedge the price paid for natural gas. Natural gas purchase costs are passed on to customers of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois under PGA clauses, subject to prudence reviews by the MoPSC and the ICC. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged 80% and Ameren Illinois had price-hedged 78% of their expected 2015 natural gas supply requirements.

For additional information on our fuel and purchased power supply, see Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report. Also see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 7 – Derivative Financial Instruments, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, Note 14 – Related Party Transactions, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8 of this report.



INDUSTRY ISSUES

We are facing issues common to the electric and natural gas utility industry. These issues include:

•political, regulatory, and customer resistance to higher rates;

•the potential for changes in laws, regulations, and policies at the state and federal levels;

•tax law changes that accelerate depreciation deductions, which reduce current tax payments but also result in rate base reductions and limit the ability to claim other deductions and use carryforward tax benefits;

•cybersecurity risks, including loss of operational control of energy centers and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution systems and/or loss of data, such as utility customer data and account information;

•the potential for more intense competition in generation, supply, and distribution, including new technologies;

•pressure on customer growth and usage in light of economic conditions and energy efficiency initiatives;

•changes in the structure of the industry as a result of changes in federal and state laws, including the formation and growth of independent transmission entities;

•pressure to reduce the allowed return on common equity on FERC-regulated electric transmission assets;

•the availability of fuel and fluctuations in fuel prices;

•the availability of qualified labor and material, and rising costs;

•the availability of a skilled workforce, including retaining the specialized skills of those who are nearing retirement;

•regulatory lag;

•the influence of macroeconomic factors, such as yields on United States Treasury securities and allowed rates of return on equity provided by regulators;

•higher levels of infrastructure investments could result in negative or decreased free cash flows, defined as cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing











activities and dividends paid;•public concern about the siting of new facilities;•complex new and proposed environmental laws, regulations and requirements, including air and water quality standards, mercury emissions standards, CCR management requirements, and greenhouse gas limitations;•public concern about the potential impacts to the environment from the combustion of fossil fuels;•aging infrastructure and the need to construct new power generation, transmission and distribution facilities, which have long time frames for completion, with little long-term ability to predict power and commodity prices and regulatory requirements;•legislation or proposals for programs to encourage or mandate energy efficiency and renewable sources of power,



such as solar, and the macroeconomic debate over who should pay for those programs;•public concern about nuclear generation and decommissioning and the disposal of nuclear waste; and•consolidation of electric and natural gas utility companies.We are monitoring these issues. Except as otherwise noted in this report, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, these issues will have on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. For additional information, see Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.















OPERATING STATISTICS

The following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201420132012Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential13,64913,56213,385Commercial14,64914,63414,575Industrial8,6008,7098,660Off-system6,1706,1287,293Other124125126Ameren Missouri total43,19243,15844,039Ameren Illinois:ResidentialPower supply and delivery service4,6625,4749,507Delivery service only7,2226,3102,103CommercialPower supply and delivery service2,5352,6062,985Delivery service only9,6439,5419,175IndustrialPower supply and delivery service1,7411,6671,595Delivery service only10,57610,86111,753Other518522523Ameren Illinois total36,89736,98137,641Eliminate affiliate sales(67)(82)—Ameren total80,02280,05781,680Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential$1,417$1,428$1,297Commercial1,2031,2161,088Industrial475491435Off-system173183208Other12061104Ameren Missouri total$3,388$3,379$3,132Ameren Illinois:ResidentialPower supply and delivery service$468$501$961Delivery service only30828290CommercialPower supply and delivery service233215254Delivery service only185184177IndustrialPower supply and delivery service907057Delivery service only424446Other196165154Ameren Illinois total$1,522$1,461$1,739ATXI:Transmission services$33$19$9Eliminate affiliate revenues(30)(27)(23)Ameren total$4,913$4,832$4,857











Electric Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201420132012Electric Generation – Ameren Missouri – kilowatthours (in millions)43,47443,21344,658Price per ton of delivered coal (average) – Ameren Missouri$37.36$36.19$34.21Source of Ameren Missouri energy supply:Coal73.5%74.1%70.6%Nuclear20.618.623.3Hydroelectric2.22.92.1Natural gas0.20.41.2Methane gas0.10.10.1Purchased – Wind0.80.70.7Purchased – Other2.63.22.0100.0%100.0%100.0%

Gas Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201420132012Natural Gas Sales - dekatherms (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential886Commercial443Industrial111Transport766Ameren Missouri total201916Ameren Illinois:Residential666249Commercial232117Industrial365Transport918786Ameren Illinois total183176157Ameren total203195173Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential$102$102$85Commercial404236Industrial788Transport and other15910Ameren Missouri total$164$161$139Ameren Illinois:Residential$675$611$547Commercial208185172Industrial232624Transport and other702543Ameren Illinois total$976$847$786Eliminate affiliate revenues—(2)(1)Ameren total$1,140$1,006$924











AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution for material information about the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted to and accessible at Ameren’s website.

The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.



