ITEM 1.BUSINESS

GENERALAmeren, headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a public utility holding company under PUHCA 2005, administered by FERC. Ameren was formed in 1997 by the merger of Ameren Missouri and CIPSCO Inc. Ameren acquired CILCORP in 2003and IP in 2004. Ameren’s primary assets are its equity interests in its subsidiaries, including Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate, independent legal entities with separate businesses, assets, and liabilities. Dividends on Ameren’s common stock and the payment of other expenses by Ameren depend on distributions made to it by its subsidiaries.











Below is a summary description of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. A more detailed description can be found in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

•Ameren Missouri operates a rate-regulated electric generation, transmission, and distribution business, and a rate-regulated natural gas transmission and distribution business in Missouri.

•Ameren Illinois operates a rate-regulated electric and natural gas transmission and distribution business in Illinois.

Ameren has various other subsidiaries responsible for activities such as the provision of shared services. Ameren also has a subsidiary, ATXI, that operates a FERC rate-regulated electric transmission business and is developing the Illinois Rivers project. The Illinois Rivers project is a MISO-approved project to build a 345-kilovolt line from western Indiana across the state of Illinois to eastern Missouri at an estimated cost of$1.1 billion.

On March 14, 2013, Ameren entered into a transaction agreement to divest New AER to IPH. On December 2, 2013, Ameren completed the divestiture of New AER to IPH. On January 31, 2014, Medina Valley completed its sale of the Elgin, Gibson City, and Grand Tower gas-fired energy centers to Rockland Capital. See Note 16 – Divestiture Transactions and Discontinued Operations under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information.



The following table presents our total employees atDecember 31, 2013:Ameren Missouri3,932Ameren Illinois3,133Ameren Services and Other1,462Ameren8,527

As of January 1, 2014, the IBEW, the IUOE, the LIUNA, and the UA labor unions collectively represented about 56% of Ameren’s total employees. They represented 64% of the employees at Ameren Missouri and 61% at Ameren Illinois. The collective bargaining agreements have two- to six-year terms, and expire between 2015 and 2017.

For additional information about the development of our businesses, our business operations, and factors affecting our operations and financial position, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.



BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Ameren has two reportable segments: Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois. See Note 17 – Segment Information under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information on reporting segments.



RATES AND REGULATION

Rates











The ICC regulates rates and other matters for Ameren Illinois and the ICC regulates non-rate utility matters for ATXI. ATXI does not have retail distribution customers, and therefore the ICC does not have authority to regulate its rates. The MoPSCregulates rates and other matters for Ameren Missouri. FERC regulates Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois and ATXI as to their ability to charge market-based rates for the wholesale sale and transmission of energy in interstate commerce and various other matters discussed below under General Regulatory Matters.



The following table summarizes, by rate jurisdiction, the rate orders in effect for customer billings for each of Ameren's rate-regulated utilities as of January 1, 2014.

RegulatorAllowed Return on EquityPercent of Common EquityRate Base            (in billions)Portion of Ameren's 2013 Operating Revenues(a)Ameren MissouriElectric service(b)(c)MoPSC9.8%52.3%$6.858%Natural gas delivery service(d)MoPSC(e)52.9%$0.2(e)3%Ameren IllinoisElectric distribution delivery service(f)ICC8.7%51.0%$2.023%Natural gas delivery service(g)ICC9.1%51.7%$1.114%Electric transmission delivery service(h)FERC12.38%55.2%$0.72%ATXIElectric transmission delivery service(h)FERC12.38%56.0%$0.2(i)

(a)Includes pass-through costs recovered from customers, such as purchased power for electric distribution delivery service and gas purchased for resale for natural gas delivery service.

(b)Ameren Missouri electric generation, transmission, and delivery service rates are bundled together and charged to retail customers under a combined electric service rate.

(c)Based on MoPSC's December 2012 rate order, which became effective on January 2, 2013.

(d)Based on MoPSC's January 2011 rate order, which became effective on February 20, 2011.

(e)Ameren Missouri's last natural gas rate order did not specify the allowed return on equity or rate base.

(f)Based on the ICC's December 2013 rate order, which became effective on January 1, 2014. The December 2013 rate order was based on 2012 recoverable costs, expected net plant additions for 2013, and the monthly yields during 2012 of the 30-year United States treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Ameren Illinois' 2014 electric distribution delivery service revenues will be based on its 2014 actual recoverable costs, rate base, and return on common equity, as calculated under the IEIMA's performance-based formula ratemaking framework.

(g)Based on the ICC's December 2013 rate order, which became effective on January 1, 2014. The rate order was based on a 2014 future test year.

(h)Transmission rates are updated and become effective each January using a company-specific, forward-looking rate formula framework, which is based on that year's forecasted information.

(i)Less than 1%.

Ameren MissouriElectricAmeren Missouri’s electric operating revenues are subject to regulation by the MoPSC. In December 2012, the MoPSC issued an order approving rates for electric service based on a 9.8% return on equity, a capital structure composed of 52.3% common equity, and a rate base of $6.8 billion. These rates became effective on January 2, 2013.If certain criteria are met, Ameren Missouri’s electric rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. The FAC permits Ameren Missouri to recover, through customer rates, 95% of changes in net energy costs greater than or less than the amount set in base rates without a traditional rate proceeding, subject to prudence reviews. Net energy cost includes fuel, emission allowances, purchased power costs, certain fuel additives, transmission costs and revenues, and MISO costs and revenues, net of off-system sales revenues. Similarly, all of Ameren Missouri's MEEIA costs, including energy efficiency program costs, projected lost revenues, and potential incentive awards, are recovered through a rider that may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding.In addition to the FAC and the MEEIA recovery



mechanisms, Ameren Missouri employs other cost recovery mechanisms including a vegetation management and infrastructure inspection cost tracker, a pension and postretirement benefit cost tracker, an uncertain tax position tracker, a renewable energy standards cost tracker, solar rebate program tracker, and a storm cost tracker. Each of these trackers allows Ameren Missouri to record the difference between the level of incurred costs under GAAP and the level of such costs built into rates as a regulatory asset or regulatory liability, which will be included in rates in a future rate order.FERC regulates the rates charged and the terms and conditions for electric transmission services. Because Ameren Missouri is a member of MISO, its transmission rate is calculated in accordance with the MISO OATT. The transmission rate is updated in June of each year; it is based on Ameren Missouri’s filings with FERC. This rate is not directly charged to Missouri retail customers, because in Missouri the MoPSC includes transmission-related costs and revenues in setting bundled retail rates. As discussed above, Ameren Missouri transmission revenues, as well as certain transmission costs paid to MISO for transmission services, are included in the FAC.Natural GasAmeren Missouri’s natural gas operating revenues are subject to regulation by the MoPSC. The last natural gas delivery











service rate order was issued by the MoPSC in January 2011.

If certain criteria are met, Ameren Missouri’s natural gas rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. PGA clauses permit prudently incurred natural gas costs to be passed directly to customers. The ISRS also permits certain prudently incurred natural gas infrastructure replacement costs to be recovered from customers on a more timely basis between rate cases. The return on equity to be used by Ameren Missouri for purposes of the ISRS tariff filing is 10%. An ISRS tariff was approved and became effective in October 2013 for the recovery of eligible infrastructure system replacement investments made from January 2011 through May 2013, which resulted in a $1 million annual increase in rates.

For additional information on Missouri rate matters, see Results of Operations and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

Ameren Illinois

Electric

Ameren Illinois' electric operating revenues are subject to either ICC or FERC regulation. Ameren Illinois' electric distribution delivery service is regulated by the ICC, while its electric transmission delivery service is regulated by FERC.  In 2013, Ameren Illinois' electric distribution delivery service comprised 90% of its total electric operating revenues, with the remainder of its electric operating revenues related to electric transmission delivery service.

Under Illinois law, all electric customers in Illinois may choose their own electric energy provider. However, Ameren Illinois is required to serve as the provider of last resort (POLR) for electric customers within its territory who have not chosen an alternative retail electric supplier. Ameren Illinois’ obligation to provide POLR electric service varies by customer size. Ameren Illinois is not required to offer fixed-priced electric service to customers with electric demands of 400 kilowatts or greater, as the market for service to this group of customers has been declared competitive. Power and related procurement costs incurred by Ameren Illinois are passed directly to its customers through a cost recovery mechanism.

Ameren Illinois participates in the performance-based formula ratemaking process established pursuant to the IEIMA. The IEIMA was designed to provide for the recovery of actual costs of electric delivery service that are prudently incurred and to reflect the utility's actual regulated capital structure through a formula for calculating the return on equity component of the cost of capital. The return on equity component of the formula rate is equal to the average for the calendar year of the monthly yields of 30-year United States treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Ameren Illinois' actual return on equity relating to electric delivery service is subject to a collar adjustment on earnings in excess of



50 basis points greater than or less than its allowed return. The IEIMA provides for an annual reconciliation of the revenue requirement necessary to reflect the actual costs incurred in a given year with the revenue requirement in effect for that year, including an allowed return on equity. This annual revenue reconciliation, along with the collar adjustment, if necessary, will be collected from or refunded to customers in a subsequent year.

Ameren Illinois is also subject to performance standards under the IEIMA. Failure to achieve the standards would result in a reduction in the company's allowed return on equity calculated under the formula. The performance standards include improvements in service reliability to reduce both the frequency and duration of outages, reduction in the number of estimated bills, reduction of consumption on inactive meters, and a reduction in uncollectible accounts expense. The IEIMA provides for return on equity penalties totaling up to 30 basis points in 2013 through 2015, 34 basis points in 2016 through 2018, and 38 basis points in 2019 through 2022 if the performance standards are not met. The formula ratemaking process is effective until the end of 2017, but could be extended by the Illinois General Assembly for an additional five years. The formula ratemaking process would also terminate if the average residential rate were to increase by more than 2.5% annually from June 2011 through May 2014. The average residential rate includes generation service, which is outside of Ameren Illinois’ control, as Ameren Illinois is required to purchase all of its power through procurement processes administered by the IPA. Ameren Illinois does not expect the annual increase in its average residential rate to exceed 2.5% through May 2014.

Between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required, pursuant to the IEIMA, to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to Ameren Illinois' average electric delivery service capital projects for calendar years 2008 through 2010 to modernize its distribution system. Through 2013, Ameren Illinois invested $61 million in IEIMA capital projects toward its $625 million requirement. Such investments are expected to encourage economic development and to create an estimated 450 additional jobs within Illinois. Ameren Illinois is subject to monetary penalties if 450 additional jobs are not created during the peak program year.

Ameren Illinois employs cost recovery mechanisms for power procurement, energy efficiency programs, certain environmental costs, and bad debt expense not recovered in base rates. Ameren Illinois also has a tariff rider to recover the costs of certain asbestos-related litigation claims.

Because Ameren Illinois is a member of MISO, its transmission rate is calculated in accordance with the MISO OATT. Currently, the FERC-allowed return on common equity in the ratemaking formula for MISO transmission owners is 12.38%. Ameren Illinois has received FERC approval to use a company-specific, forward-looking rate formula framework in setting its transmission rates. These forward-looking rates are updated each January with forecasted information, with a subsequent reconciliation during the year to adjust for the actual revenue requirement and actual billed revenues, which will be used to











adjust billing rates in a subsequent year. In Illinois, the AMIL pricing zone rate is charged directly to wholesale customers and alternative retail electric suppliers, which serve unbundled retail load. For Ameren Illinois retail customers who have not chosen an alternative retail electric supplier, the AMIL transmission rate, and other MISO-related costs are collected through a rider mechanism in Ameren Illinois' retail distribution tariffs.

Natural Gas

Ameren Illinois’ natural gas operating revenues are subject to regulation by the ICC.

In December 2013, the ICC issued a rate order that approved an increase in revenues for natural gas delivery service of $32 million. The revenue increase was based on a 9.1% return on equity, a capital structure composed of 51.7% common equity, and a rate base of $1.1 billion. The rate order was based on a 2014 future test year. The rate changes became effective January 1, 2014. Ameren Illinois expects to file an appeal of the ICC's order to the Appellate Court in March 2014.

If certain criteria are met, Ameren Illinois’ natural gas rates may be adjusted without a traditional rate proceeding. PGA clauses permit prudently incurred natural gas costs to be passed directly to customers. Also, Ameren Illinois employs cost recovery mechanisms for energy efficiency programs, certain environmental costs, and bad debt expense not recovered in base rates.

In July 2013, Illinois enacted the Natural Gas Consumer, Safety and Reliability Act, which encourages Illinois natural gas utilities to accelerate modernization of the state's natural gas infrastructure and provides additional ICC oversight of natural gas utility performance. The law allows natural gas utilities the option to file for, and requires the ICC to approve, a rate rider mechanism to recover costs of certain natural gas infrastructure investments made between rate cases. The law does not require a minimum level of investment. Ameren Illinois expects to begin including investments under this regulatory framework in 2015. Ameren Illinois' decision to accelerate modernization of its natural gas infrastructure under this regulatory framework is dependent upon multiple considerations, including the allowed return on equity under this regulatory framework compared with other Ameren and Ameren Illinois investment options.

ATXI

Similar to Ameren Illinois, ATXI is a member of MISO, and its transmission rate is calculated in accordance with the MISO OATT. Currently, the FERC-allowed return on common equity in the ratemaking formula for MISO transmission owners is 12.38%. ATXI has received FERC approval to use a company-specific, forward-looking rate formula framework in setting its transmission rates. These forward-looking rates are updated each January with forecasted information, with a subsequent reconciliation during the year to adjust for the actual revenue requirement and actual billed revenues, which will be used to adjust billing rates in a subsequent year. Additionally, FERC has approved transmission rate incentives relating to the three MISO-approved



multi-value projects discussed below, which allow construction work in progress to be included in rate base, thereby improving cash flows.

The three MISO-approved multi-value projects being developed by ATXI are the Illinois Rivers, Spoon River, and Mark Twain projects. The first project, Illinois Rivers, involves the construction of a 345-kilovolt line from western Indiana across the state of Illinois to eastern Missouri. ATXI obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity and project approval from the ICC for the entire Illinois Rivers project. A full range of construction activities for the Illinois Rivers project is scheduled in 2014. The first sections of the Illinois Rivers project are expected to be completed in 2016. The last section of this project is expected to be completed in 2019. The Spoon River project in northwest Illinois and the Mark Twain project in northeast Missouri are the other two projects approved by MISO. These two projects are expected to be completed in 2018. The total investment in these three projects is expected to be more than $1.4 billion through 2019.

For additional information on Illinois rate matters, see Results of Operations and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

General Regulatory Matters

Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois must receive FERC approval to enter into various transactions, such as issuing short-term debt securities and conducting certain acquisitions, mergers, and consolidations involving electric utility holding companies with a value in excess of $10 million. In addition, these Ameren utilities must receive authorization from the applicable state public utility regulatory agency to issue stock and long-term debt securities (with maturities of more than 12 months) and to conduct mergers, affiliate transactions, and various other activities.

Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois and ATXI are also subject to mandatory reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards adopted by FERC, to ensure the reliability of the bulk power electric system. These standards are developed and enforced by NERC pursuant to authority given to it by FERC. If Ameren or its subsidiaries were found not to be in compliance with any of these mandatory reliability standards, they could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions.

Under PUHCA 2005, FERC and any state public utility regulatory agency may access books and records of Ameren and its subsidiaries that are determined to be relevant to costs incurred by Ameren’s rate-regulated subsidiaries with respect to jurisdictional rates. PUHCA 2005 also permits the MoPSC and the ICC to request that FERC review cost allocations by Ameren Services to other Ameren companies.

Operation of Ameren Missouri’s Callaway energy center is











subject to regulation by the NRC. Its facility operating license expires in October 2024. In December 2011, Ameren Missouri submitted a license extension application to the NRC to extend the energy center's operating license to 2044. There is no date by which the NRC must act on this relicensing request. Ameren Missouri’s Osage hydroelectric energy center and Ameren Missouri’s Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center, as licensed projects under the Federal Power Act, are subject to FERC regulations affecting, among other things, the general operation and maintenance of the projects. The license for Ameren Missouri’s Osage hydroelectric energy center expires in March 2047. In June 2008, Ameren Missouri filed a relicensing application with FERC to operate its Taum Sauk pumped-storage hydroelectric energy center for another 40 years. The existing FERC license expired on June 30, 2010. In July 2010, Ameren Missouri received a license extension that allows Taum Sauk to continue operations until FERC issues a new license. FERC is reviewing the relicensing application. A FERC order is expected in 2014. Ameren Missouri cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the order. Ameren Missouri’s Keokuk energy center and its dam in the Mississippi River between Hamilton, Illinois, and Keokuk, Iowa, are operated under authority granted by an Act of Congress in 1905.

For additional information on regulatory matters, see Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental statutes and regulations relating to the safety and health of personnel, the public, and the environment. These environmental statutes and regulations include requirements relating to identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, reporting, and emergency response in connection with hazardous and toxic materials; safety and health standards; and environmental protection requirements, including standards and limitations relating to the discharge of air and water pollutants and the management of waste and byproduct materials. Failure to comply with those statutes or regulations could have material adverse effects on us. We could be subject to criminal or civil penalties by regulatory agencies or we could be ordered by the courts to pay private parties. Except as indicated in this report, we believe that we are in material compliance with existing statutes and regulations that currently apply to our operations.

The EPA is developing environmental regulations that will have a significant impact on the electric utility industry. Over time, compliance with these regulations could be particularly costly for certain companies, including Ameren Missouri, that operate coal-fired energy centers. Significant new rules proposed or promulgated include the regulation of CO2emissions from new energy centers; revised national ambient air quality standards for ozone, fine particulates, SO2,and NOxemissions; the CSAPR, which would have required further reductions of SO2emissions and NOxemissions from energy centers; a regulation governing



management of CCR and coal ash impoundments; the MATS, which require reduction of emissions of mercury, toxic metals, and acid gases from energy centers; revised NSPS for particulate matter, SO2, and NOxemissions from new sources; new effluent standards applicable to waste water discharges from energy centers and new regulations under the Clean Water Act that could require significant capital expenditures, such as modifications to water intake structures or new cooling towers at our energy centers. The EPA is expected to propose CO2standards for existing fossil fuel-fired electric generation units in the future. These new and proposed regulations, if adopted, may be challenged through litigation, so their ultimate implementation, as well as the timing of any such implementation, is uncertain. Although many details of these future regulations are unknown, the combined effects of the new and proposed environmental regulations may result in significant capital expenditures and increased operating costs over the next five to ten years for Ameren and Ameren Missouri. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations could be prohibitively expensive or could result in the closure or alteration of the operation of some of our energy centers. Ameren and Ameren Missouri would expect these costs to be recoverable through rates, but the nature and timing of costs, as well as the applicable regulatory framework, could result in regulatory lag.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, including NOx, SO2, and mercury emission reduction requirements, remediation efforts, and a discussion of the EPA’s allegations of violations of the Clean Air Act and Missouri law in connection with projects at Ameren Missouri's Rush Island energy center, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.



TRANSMISSION AND SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC POWER

Ameren owns an integrated transmission system that comprises the transmission assets of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois and ATXI. Ameren also operates two balancing authority areas, AMMO (which includes Ameren Missouri's customers), and AMIL (which includes Ameren Illinois' customers). During 2013, the peak demand was 8,146 megawatts in AMMO and 8,899 megawatts in AMIL. The Ameren transmission system directly connects with 15 other balancing authority areas for the exchange of electric energy.

Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois and ATXI are transmission-owning members of MISO. Ameren Missouri is authorized by the MoPSC to participate in MISO, subject to certain conditions, through May 2016, including the condition that Ameren Missouri later file a study with the MoPSC that evaluates the costs and benefits of Ameren Missouri's continued participation in MISO, as it has periodically done since its MISO participation began in 2003. The next study is required to be filed with the MoPSC in November 2015.

The Ameren Companies are members of SERC. SERC is responsible for the bulk electric power supply system in all or











portions of Missouri, Illinois, Arkansas, Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Virginia, Florida, Oklahoma, Iowa, and Texas. As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of the bulk electric power system are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and its regional entities, such as SERC, which are all enforced by FERC. The Ameren Companies must comply with these standards, which are in place to ensure the reliability of the bulk electric power system.

See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information.

Ameren Missouri

Ameren Missouri’s electric supply is obtained primarily from its own generation. Factors that could cause Ameren Missouri to purchase power include, among other things, absence of sufficient owned generation, energy center outages, the fulfillment of renewable energy portfolio requirements, the failure of suppliers to meet their power supply obligations, extreme weather conditions, and the availability of power at a cost lower than the cost of generating it.

Ameren Missouri continues to evaluate its longer-term needs for new baseload, including nuclear and peaking electric generation capacity. See Energy Efficiency in this section for information on Ameren Missouri's energy efficiency programs and associated cost recovery mechanisms.The potential need for new energy center construction is dependent on several key factors, including continuation of energy efficiency programs beyond 2015, load growth, customer participation in energy efficiency programs, and the potential for more stringent environmental regulation of coal-fired energy centers, which could lead to the retirement of current baseload assets or alterations in the manner in which those assets operate. Because of the significant time required to plan, acquire permits for, and build a baseload energy center, Ameren Missouri continues to study future alternatives and is taking steps to preserve options to meet future demand. These steps include evaluating the potential for further energy efficiency programs and evaluating potential sites for natural gas-fired generation. Ameren Missouri



is also exploring options to expand renewable generation and further diversify its generation portfolio. Ameren Missouri's next Integrated Resource Plan filing with the MoPSC is due in October 2014.

See also Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.

Ameren Illinois

Any electric supply purchased by Ameren Illinois for its retail customers comes either through an annual procurement process conducted by the IPA or through markets operated by MISO. The power and related procurement costs incurred by Ameren Illinois are passed directly to its customers through a cost recovery mechanism.

The IPA administers an RFP process that procures Ameren Illinois’ expected supply obligation. Since the RFP process began in 2009, the ICC has approved the outcomes of multiple electric power procurement RFPs for energy, capacity, and renewable energy credits covering different time periods.

Under Illinois law, transmission and distribution service rates are regulated, while electric customers are allowed to purchase power from an alternative retail electric supplier. AtDecember 31, 2013, approximately 768,000 retail customers representing approximately 72% of Ameren Illinois' annual retail kilowatthour sales had elected to purchase their electricity from alternative retail electric suppliers. Customers who receive electricity from alternative retail electric suppliers continue to pay a delivery charge to Ameren Illinois for the distribution services they receive from Ameren Illinois.

See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 14 – Related Party Transactions and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information on power procurement in Illinois.





POWER GENERATION

The following table presents the source of electric generation, excluding purchased power, for the years endedDecember 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011:CoalNuclearNatural GasRenewables(a)OilAmeren and Ameren Missouri:201377%19%(b)3%(b)2012732412(b)2011771913(b)

(a)Renewable power generation includes production from Ameren Missouri's hydroelectric, pumped-storage, and methane gas energy centers, but excludes purchased renewable energy credits.

(b)Less than 1% of total fuel supply.









The following table presents the cost of fuels for electric generation for the years endedDecember 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011:

Cost of Fuels(dollars per mmbtu)201320122011Ameren and Ameren Missouri:Coal(a)$2.050$1.925$1.733Nuclear0.9420.9640.750Natural gas(b)7.9074.5175.873Weighted average – all fuels(c)$1.874$1.743$1.610

(a)Represents the cost of coal and the costs for transportation, which include hedges for railroad diesel fuel surcharges.

(b)Represents the cost of natural gas and firm and variable costs for transportation, storage, balancing, and fuel losses for delivery to the energy center. In addition, the fixed costs for firm transportation and firm storage capacity are included in the calculation of fuel cost for the energy centers.

(c)Represents all costs for fuels used in our energy centers, to the extent applicable, including coal, nuclear, natural gas, methane gas, oil, propane, tire chips, paint products, and handling. Methane gas, oil, propane, tire chips, and paint products are not individually listed in this table because their use is minimal.

Coal

Ameren Missouri has agreements in place to purchase a portion of the coal it needs and to transport it to energy centers through 2019. Ameren Missouri expects to enter into additional contracts to purchase coal from time to time. Coal supply agreements for Ameren Missouri have terms of up to six years, and expire between 2014 and 2017. Ameren Missouri has an ongoing need for coal to serve its native load customers, so it pursues a price-hedging strategy consistent with this requirement. Ameren Missouri burned 19 million tons of coal in 2013. See Part II, Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report for additional information about coal supply contracts.

About 98% of Ameren Missouri’s coal is purchased from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. The remaining coal is typically purchased from the Illinois Basin. Inventory may be adjusted because of generation levels or uncertainties of supply due to potential work stoppages, delays in coal deliveries, equipment breakdowns, and other factors. In the past, deliveries from the Powder River Basin have occasionally been restricted because of rail maintenance, weather, and derailments. As ofDecember 31, 2013, coal inventories for Ameren Missouri were about 20% below targeted levels due to flooding and weather-related delivery delays. Disruptions in coal deliveries could cause Ameren Missouri to pursue a strategy that could include reducing sales of power during low-margin periods, buying higher-cost fuels to generate required electricity, and purchasing power from other sources.

Nuclear

The steps in the process to provide nuclear fuel involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride gas, the enrichment of that gas, and the fabrication of the enriched uranium hexafluoride gas into usable fuel assemblies. Ameren Missouri has entered into uranium, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment, and fabrication contracts to procure the fuel supply for its Callaway nuclear energy center.

Fuel assemblies for the 2014 fall refueling at Ameren Missouri's Callaway energy center are scheduled for manufacture and delivery to the energy center during the period May to July 2014. Ameren Missouri also has agreements or inventories to



price-hedge approximately 100%, 71%, and 60% of Callaway's 2014, 2016 and 2017 refueling requirements, respectively. Ameren Missouri has uranium (concentrate and hexafluoride) inventories and supply contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium and conversion requirements through at least 2018. Ameren Missouri has enriched uranium inventories and enrichment supply contracts sufficient to satisfy enrichment requirements through at least 2018. Fuel fabrication services are under contract through 2014.Ameren Missouri expects to enter into additional contracts to purchase nuclear fuel. The Callaway energy center normally requires refueling at 18-month intervals. The last refueling was completed in May 2013. There is no refueling scheduled for 2015 and 2018. The nuclear fuel markets are competitive, and prices can be volatile; however, we do not anticipate any significant problems in meeting our future supply requirements.

Natural Gas Supply for Generation

To maintain deliveries to natural gas-fired energy centers throughout the year, especially during the summer peak demand, Ameren Missouri’s portfolio of natural gas supply resources includes firm transportation capacity and firm no-notice storage capacity leased from interstate pipelines. Ameren Missouri primarily uses the interstate pipeline systems of Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, Trunkline Gas Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, and Mississippi River Transmission Corporation to transport natural gas to energy centers. In addition to physical transactions, Ameren uses financial instruments, including some in the NYMEX futures market and some in the OTC financial markets, to hedge the price paid for natural gas.

Ameren Missouri’s natural gas procurement strategy is designed to ensure reliable and immediate delivery of natural gas to its energy centers. This is accomplished by optimizing transportation and storage options and minimizing cost and price risk through various supply and price-hedging agreements that allow access to multiple gas pools, supply basins, and storage services. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged about27% of its expected natural gas supply requirements for generation in 2014.











Renewable Energy

Illinois and Missouri have enacted laws requiring electric utilities to include renewable energy resources in their portfolios. Illinois requires renewable energy resources to equal or exceed 2% of the total electricity that each electric utility supplied to its eligible retail customers as of June 1, 2008, with that percentage increasing to 10% by June 1, 2015, and to 25% by June 1, 2025. For the 2013 plan year, Ameren Illinois met its requirement that 8% of its total electricity for eligible retail customers be procured from renewable energy resources. Current forecasts indicate that Ameren Illinois has committed to procure sufficient renewable energy credits under the IPA-administered procurement process to meet the renewable energy portfolio requirement through at least May 2018. In December 2010, Ameren Illinois entered into 20-year agreements with renewable energy suppliers. It began receiving renewable energy credits under these agreements in June 2012. Approximately 63% of the 2014 plan year renewable energy requirement is expected to be met through these agreements. The remaining requirement will be met through IPA procurements, which resulted in contracts that were executed in February 2012 with a term of June 2013 through December 2017.

In Missouri, utilities are required to purchase or generate from renewable energy sources electricity equaling at least 2% of native load sales, with that percentage increasing to at least 15% by 2021, subject to a 1% annual limit on customer rate impacts. At least 2% of each renewable energy portfolio requirement must be derived from solar energy. Ameren Missouri expects to satisfy the nonsolar requirement through 2018 with its existing renewable generation, including the Maryland Heights energy center, along with a 15-year 102-megawatt power purchase agreement with a wind farm operator in Iowa that became effective in 2009. The Maryland Heights energy center generates electricity by burning methane gas collected from a landfill. Currently, Ameren Missouri is meeting the solar energy requirement through the purchase of solar-generated renewable energy credits and generation from solar panels installed on Ameren's St. Louis headquarters. In January 2014, Ameren Missouri announced its plans to build a solar energy center which will generate 5 megawatts of solar power. Construction is expected to begin in the spring of 2014, and delivery of power to customers is expected by the end of 2014. In 2013, Ameren Missouri purchased or generated about 5% of its native load sales from renewable energy resources, meeting its requirements.

Under the same Missouri statute requiring utilities to purchase or generate energy from renewable sources, Ameren Missouri is required to have a rebate program to provide an incentive for customers to install solar generation on their premises. In accordance with the statute and a 2013 MoPSC order, Ameren Missouri is required to provide $92 million of solar rebates by 2020. Also included in its 2013 order, the MoPSC authorized Ameren Missouri to employ a tracker allowing Ameren Missouri to record its costs incurred under its solar rebate program as a regulatory asset. Ameren Missouri will recover the costs of these rebates, and the carrying cost of the regulatory



asset, which is estimated to be $9 million, over a three-year period beginning with the effective date of its next electric rate case.

Energy Efficiency

Ameren’s rate-regulated utilities have implemented energy efficiency programs to educate and help their customers become more efficient users of energy. The MEEIA established a regulatory framework that, among other things, allows electric utilities to recover costs related to MoPSC-approved energy efficiency programs. The law requires the MoPSC to ensure that a utility’s financial incentives are aligned to help customers use energy more efficiently, to provide timely cost recovery, and to provide earnings opportunities associated with cost-effective energy efficiency programs. Missouri does not have a law mandating energy efficiency standards.

The MoPSC's December 2012 electric rate order approved Ameren Missouri's implementation of MEEIA megawatthour savings targets, energy efficiency programs, and associated cost recovery mechanisms and incentive awards. In 2013, Ameren Missouri invested $35 million for energy efficiency programs. Ameren Missouri expects to invest $48 million in 2014 and $64 million in 2015 for these programs. A MEEIA rider allows Ameren Missouri to collect from or refund to customers through 2015 any annual difference in the actual amounts incurred and the projected amounts collected from customers for the MEEIA program costs and its projected lost revenues.

Additionally, MEEIA provides an incentive award that would allow Ameren Missouri to earn additional revenues by achieving certain energy efficiency goals, including approximately $19 million if 100% of its energy efficiency goals are achieved during the three-year period, with the potential to earn more if Ameren Missouri's energy savings exceed those goals. Ameren Missouri must achieve at least 70% of its energy efficiency goals before it earns any incentive award. The recovery of the incentive award from customers, if the energy efficiency goals are achieved, is expected in 2017 through the above-mentioned rider. See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report for additional information.

Illinois has enacted a law requiring Ameren Illinois to offer energy efficiency programs. The law also allows recovery mechanisms of the programs’ costs. The ICC has issued orders approving Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas energy efficiency plans as well as cost recovery mechanisms by which program costs can be recovered from customers. In addition, between 2012 and 2021, Ameren Illinois is required, pursuant to the IEIMA, to invest $625 million in capital projects incremental to Ameren Illinois' average electric delivery service capital projects for calendar years 2008 through 2010 to modernize its distribution system. As part of these upgrades, Ameren Illinois expects to invest $360 million for smart grid infrastructure, including smart meters, which enables customers to improve efficiency. Ameren Illinois will begin the installation of smart meters during 2014.













NATURAL GAS SUPPLY FOR DISTRIBUTION

Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are responsible for the purchase and delivery of natural gas to their utility customers. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois each develop and manage a portfolio of natural gas supply resources. These include firm gas supply under term agreements with producers, interstate and intrastate firm transportation capacity, firm storage capacity leased from interstate pipelines, and on-system storage facilities to maintain natural gas deliveries to customers throughout the year and especially during peak demand periods. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois primarily use Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, Trunkline Gas Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Mississippi River Transmission Corporation, Northern Border Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation interstate pipeline systems to transport natural gas to their systems. In addition to transactions requiring physical delivery, financial instruments, including those entered into in the NYMEX futures market and in the OTC financial markets, are used to hedge the price paid for natural gas. See Part II, Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this report for additional information about natural gas supply contracts. Natural gas purchase costs are passed on to customers of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois under PGA clauses, subject to prudency reviews by the MoPSC and the ICC. As of

December 31, 2013

, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged


%, and Ameren Illinois had price-hedged

77%

, of its expected 2014 natural gas supply requirements.

For additional information on our fuel and purchased power supply, see Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report. Also see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, of this report, Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 7 – Derivative Financial Instruments, Note 10 – Callaway Energy Center, Note 14 – Related Party Transactions, and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8 of this report.



INDUSTRY ISSUES

We are facing issues common to the electric and natural gas utility industry. These issues include:

•political and regulatory resistance to higher rates;

•the potential for changes in laws, regulations, and policies at the state and federal level;

•cybersecurity risk, including loss of operational control of energy centers and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution systems and/or loss of data, such as utility customer data, account information, and intellectual property through insider or outsider actions;

•the potential for more intense competition in generation, supply and distribution, including new technologies;

•pressure on customer growth and usage in light of economic conditions and energy efficiency initiatives;



•changes in the structure of the industry as a result of changes in federal and state laws, including the formation and growth of independent transmission entities;

•pressure to reduce the allowed return on common equity on FERC-regulated electric transmission assets;

•the availability of fuel and increases or decreases in fuel prices;

•the availability of qualified labor and material, and rising costs;

•regulatory lag;

•the influence of macroeconomic factors, such as yields on United States treasury securities, on allowed rates of return on equity provided by regulators;

•decreased or negative free cash flows due to rising infrastructure investments and regulatory frameworks;

•public concern about the siting of new facilities;

•continually developing and complex environmental laws, regulations and requirements, including air and water quality standards, mercury emissions standards, and likely greenhouse gas limitations and CCR management requirements;

•public concerns about the potential impacts to the environment from the combustion of fossil fuels;

•aging infrastructure and the need to construct new power generation, transmission and distribution facilities, which have long time frames for completion, while at the same time, having little long-term visibility on power and commodity prices and regulatory requirements;

•legislation or proposals for programs to encourage or mandate energy efficiency and renewable sources of power, such as solar, and the macroeconomic debate of who should pay for those programs;

•public concerns about nuclear generation and decommissioning and the disposal of nuclear waste; and

•consolidation of electric and natural gas companies.

We are monitoring these issues. Except as otherwise noted in this report, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, these issues will have on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. For additional information, see Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters and Note 15 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.













OPERATING STATISTICS

The following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:Electric Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201320122011Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential13,56213,38513,867Commercial14,63414,57514,743Industrial8,7098,6608,691Other125126127Native load subtotal37,03036,74637,428Off-system and wholesale6,1287,29310,715Subtotal43,15844,03948,143Ameren Illinois:ResidentialPower supply and delivery service5,4749,50711,771Delivery service only6,3102,10377CommercialPower supply and delivery service2,6062,9853,662Delivery service only9,5419,1758,561IndustrialPower supply and delivery service1,6671,5951,502Delivery service only10,86111,75311,360Other522523529Native load subtotal36,98137,64137,462Eliminate affiliate sales(82)—(17)Ameren total80,05781,68085,588Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):Ameren Missouri:Residential$1,428$1,297$1,272Commercial1,2161,0881,084Industrial491435438Other6110476Native load subtotal$3,196$2,924$2,870Off-system and wholesale183208352Subtotal$3,379$3,132$3,222Ameren Illinois:ResidentialPower supply and delivery service$501$961$1,194Delivery service only282903CommercialPower supply and delivery service215254350Delivery service only184177157IndustrialPower supply and delivery service705765Delivery service only444643Other165154128Native load subtotal$1,461$1,739$1,940Eliminate affiliate revenues and other(8)(14)(15)Ameren total$4,832$4,857$5,147











Electric Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201320122011Electric Generation – Ameren Missouri – megawatthours (in millions)43.244.748.8Price per ton of delivered coal (average) – Ameren Missouri$36.19$34.21$30.57Ameren source of energy supply:Coal70.2%65.1%66.5%Nuclear10.512.49.4Hydroelectric1.61.11.3Natural gas1.12.71.1Methane gas0.1——Purchased – Wind0.40.40.3Purchased – Other16.118.321.4100.0%100.0%100.0%

Gas Operating Statistics –Year Ended December 31,201320122011Natural Gas Sales (millions of dekatherms):Ameren Missouri:Residential867Commercial433Industrial111Transport665Subtotal191616Ameren Illinois:Residential624956Commercial211721Industrial655Transport and other878680Subtotal176157162Ameren total195173178Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions)Ameren Missouri:Residential$102$85$96Commercial423642Industrial889Transport and other9109Subtotal$161$139$156Ameren Illinois:Residential$611$547$588Commercial185172195Industrial262430Transport and other254333Subtotal$847$786$846Eliminate affiliate revenues(2)(1)(1)Ameren total$1,006$924$1,001











AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.ameren.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) documents, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through an Internet website maintained by the SEC (www.sec.gov). Ameren also uses its website as a channel of distribution of material information relating to the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information regarding the Ameren Companies is routinely posted to and accessible at Ameren’s website.

The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ audit and risk committee, human resources committee, nominating and corporate governance committee, finance committee, and nuclear oversight and environmental committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; a code of business conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.



