ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Skyworks Solutions, Inc. together with its consolidated subsidiaries, (“Skyworks” or the “Company”)
is an innovator of high reliability analog and mixed signal semiconductors. Leveraging core
technologies, Skyworks offers diverse standard and custom linear products supporting automotive,
broadband, cellular infrastructure, energy management, industrial, medical, military and cellular
handset applications. The Company’s portfolio includes amplifiers, attenuators, detectors, diodes,
directional couplers, front-end modules, hybrids, infrastructure RF





subsystems, mixers/demodulators, phase shifters, PLLs/synthesizers/VCOs, power dividers/combiners,
receivers, switches and technical ceramics.

We have aligned our product portfolio around two broad markets: cellular handsets and analog
semiconductors. In general, our handset portfolio includes highly customized power amplifiers and
front-end solutions that are in many of today’s cellular devices, from entry level to multimedia
platforms and smart phones. Some of our primary handset customers include LG Electronics, Motorola,
Nokia, Samsung, Sony Ericsson, Research in Motion, and HTC. Our competitors include Avago
Technologies, RF Micro Devices and Triquint Semiconductor.

In parallel, we offer over 2,500 different catalog and custom linear products to a highly
diversified non-handset customer base. Our customers include infrastructure, automotive, energy
management, medical and military providers such as Huawei, Ericsson, Landis + Gyr, Sensus, Itron,
Siemens, and Northrop Grumman. Our competitors in the linear products markets include Analog
Devices, Hittite Microwave, Linear Technology and Maxim Integrated Products.

Headquartered in Woburn, Massachusetts, the Company is a Delaware corporation that was formed in
1962. The Company changed its corporate name from Alpha Industries, Inc. to Skyworks Solutions,
Inc. on June 25, 2002, following a business combination. We have worldwide operations with
engineering, manufacturing, sales and service facilities throughout Asia, Europe and North America.
Our Internet address is www.skyworksinc.com. We make available on our Website our Annual Report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16 filings on Forms
3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports as soon as practicable after we electronically submit
such material to the SEC. The information contained in our Website is not incorporated by reference
in this Annual Report. You may read and copy materials that we have filed with the SEC at the SEC
public reference room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC
at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Our SEC filings are also
available to the public on the SEC’s Internet Website at www.sec.gov.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

We believe there are several key growth trends shaping the wireless industry. First is the advent
of the mobile Internet, where consumers are increasingly demanding mobile devices with faster data
rates, advanced image quality and improved Web connections. We believe this demand is one of the
biggest secular growth trends in technology.

On the
high-end of the cellular handset market, the smart phone growth -
which is at the heart of the mobile Internet phenomenon - is
fostering this industry wide sea change. In effect, the smart phone
is moving from a higher end tool reserved for the corporate executive
to an increasingly mainstream communication platform necessity - one
that is changing the way in which we live, work and play. Social
networking sites such as Facebook and Twitter are only fueling this
trend. Furthermore, this segment is being embraced and widely
promoted by carriers who benefit from the highly profitable data
services revenue stream as subscribers move to enhanced data plans.

The increased presence of multimedia-rich mobile devices has led manufacturers to recognize the
increasingly important role multimode Front-End Modules (“FEM”) play in the rapidly evolving
wireless handset market, particularly as the industry migrates to 3G and 4G technologies which
enable applications such as Web browsing, video streaming, gaming, MP3 players and cameras.
Next-generation EDGE, WEDGE and WCDMA wireless platforms are now being used in the majority of the
more than one billion cellular phones the industry produces annually which results in increasing
complexity in the FEM because each new wireless platform and operating frequency band requires
additional amplifier, filtering and switching content to support:

•backward compatibility to existing networks,•simultaneous transmission of voice and data,•international roaming, and







•broadband functionality to accommodate music, video, data, and other multimedia
features.

Further, given constraints on handset size and power consumption, these complex FEMs must remain
physically small, energy efficient and cost effective, while also managing an unprecedented level
of potential signal interference within the handset.

Finally, and a direct result of this increasing FEM complexity, the addressable semiconductor
content within the transmit and receive chain portion of the mobile device is increasing. We
believe this trend is creating an incremental market opportunity measured in the billions of
dollars as switching, filtering and wireless local area networking functionality are integrated.

Meanwhile, outside of the handset market, wireless technologies and the opportunity for
applications for analog semiconductor products are also rapidly proliferating. According to
Gartner, a leading independent market research firm, the total available market for the analog
semiconductor segment is expected to exceed $18 billion in 2014. Today, this adjacent analog
semiconductor market, which is characterized by longer product lifecycles and relatively high gross
margins, is fragmented and diversified among various end-markets, customer bases and applications
including:

•Infrastructure•Automotive•CATV/Satcom•Smart Energy•Medical•Military•RFID•Test & Measurement•WiMAX•WLAN

SKYWORKS’ STRATEGY

Skyworks’ mission is to achieve mobile connectivity leadership through semiconductor innovation.
Key elements in our strategy include:

Diversifying Our Business

By leveraging our core analog and mixed signal technology, Skyworks is able to deliver solutions to
a broad and diverse set of end markets and customers. In the handset market, we currently support
all top tier handset manufacturers as well as the leading smart phone suppliers, and have strategic
relationships with each key baseband supplier. In non-handset markets, we continue to take
advantage of our catalog business, intellectual property and worldwide distribution network, to
bolster our product pipeline and expand our addressable markets beyond the approximately 1,000
global customers  and 2,500 analog components currently marketed.







Diversifying our Business

Gaining Market Share

Our customer engagements are increasingly centered on solving highly complex multimode, multiband,
switching, filtering, digital control and amplification challenges — system-level requirements
which intersect with Skyworks’ core competencies. Skyworks continues to invest in developing
architectures which optimize power efficiency while minimizing cost and footprint, which we believe
will allow us to meet our customers’ demanding next-generation technology requirements as well as
stringent quality standards and manufacturing scale necessities.

Capitalizing on Content Growth in Third and Fourth Generation Applications

As the industry migrates to multi-mode EDGE, WEDGE, WCDMA and LTE architectures across a multitude
of wireless broadband applications, RF complexity in the transmit and receive chain substantially
increases given simultaneous voice and high speed data communications requirements, coupled with
the need for backward compatibility to existing networks. As a result of this complexity in the
FEM, we believe that our addressable market is increasing significantly.

Delivering Operational Excellence

Skyworks’ strategy is to either vertically integrate our supply chain where we can differentiate or
otherwise enter alliances and strategic relationships for leading-edge capabilities. This hybrid
manufacturing approach allows us to better balance external capacity with the demands of the
marketplace. Internally, our capacity utilization remains high and we are therefore able to
maintain margins and our return on invested capital on a broader range of revenues. We continue to
focus on achieving the industry’s shortest cycle times, highest yields and ultimately lowest
product cost structure.





SKYWORKS’ PRODUCT PORTFOLIO

Our product portfolio consists of:

•Amplifiers: the modules that strengthen the signal so that it has sufficient energy to
reach a base station



•Attenuators:circuits that allow a known source of power to be reduced by a
predetermined factor (usually expressed as decibels)



•Detectors:intended for use in power management applications



•Diodes:semiconductor devices that pass current in one direction only



•Directional Couplers:transmission coupling devices for separately sampling the forward
or backward wave in a transmission line



•Front-End Modules: power amplifiers that are integrated with switches, diplexers,
filters and other components to create a single package front-end solution



•Hybrid:a type of directional coupler used in radio and telecommunications



•Infrastructure RF Subsystems:highly integrated transceivers and power amplifiers for
wireless base station applications



•MIS Silicon Chip Capacitors:used in applications requiring DC blocking and RF
bypassing, or as a fixed capacitance tuning element in filters, oscillators, and matching
networks



•Mixers/Demodulators:integrated, high-dynamic range, zero IF architecture downconverter
for use in wireless communication applications



•Modulators:designed for direct modulation of high frequency AM, PM or compound
carriers



•Phase Locked Loops (PLL):closed-loop feedback control system that maintains a
generated signal in a fixed phase relationship to a reference signal



•Phase Shifters:designed for use in power amplifier distortion compensation circuits in
base station applications



•Power Dividers/Combiners:utilized to equally split signals into in-phase signals as
often found in balanced signal chains and local oscillator distribution networks



•Receivers:electronic devices that change a radio signal from a transmitter into useful
information



•Switches:components that perform the change between the transmit and receive function,
as well as the band function for cellular handsets



•Synthesizers:provides ultra-fine frequency resolution, fast switching speed, and low
phase-noise performance



•Technical Ceramics:polycrystalline oxide materials used for a wide variety of
electrical, mechanical, thermal and magnetic applications



•Transceivers:devices that have both a transmitter and a receiver which are combined
and share common circuitry or a single housing



•VCOs/Synthesizers:fully integrated, high performance signal source for high dynamic
range transceivers







We believe we possess  broad technology capabilities and one of the most complete wireless
communications product portfolios in the industry.

THE SKYWORKS ADVANTAGE

By turning complexity into simplicity, we  provide our customers with the following
competitive advantages:

•Broad front-end module and precision analog product portfolio•Technology leadership in power amplifier and FEM product segments•Solutions for key air interface standards, including CDMA2000, GSM/GPRS/EDGE, LTE,
WCDMA, WLAN and WiMAX•Engagements with a diverse set of top-tier customers•Analog, RF and mixed signal design capabilities•Strategic partnerships with all leading baseband providers•Access to key process technologies: GaAs HBT, pHEMT, BiCMOS, SiGE, CMOS, RF CMOS, and
silicon•World-class manufacturing capabilities and scale•High level of customer service and technical support•Commitment to technology innovation

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

Our products are primarily sold through a direct Skyworks sales force. This team is globally
deployed across all of our major market regions. In some markets we supplement our direct sales
effort with independent manufacturers’ representatives, assuring broader coverage of territories
and customers. We also utilize distribution partners, some of
which are franchised globally with others focused in specific regional markets (e.g., Europe, North
America, China and Taiwan).

We maintain an internal marketing organization that is responsible for developing sales and
advertising literature, print media, such as product announcements and catalogs, as well as a
variety of Web-based content. Skyworks’ sales engagement begins at the earliest stages in a
customer design. We strive to provide close technical collaboration with our customers at the
inception of new programs. This relationship allows our team to facilitate customer-driven
solutions, which leverage the unique strength of our product portfolio while providing high value
and greatly reducing time-to-market.

We believe that the technical and complex nature of our products and markets demand an
extraordinary commitment to maintain intimate ongoing relationships with our customers. As such, we
strive to expand the scope of our customer relationship to include design, engineering,
manufacturing, purchasing and project management. We also employ a collaborative approach in
developing these relationships by combining the support of our design teams, applications
engineers, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing staff and senior management.

We believe that maintaining frequent and interactive contact with our customers is paramount to our
continuous efforts to provide world-class sales and service support. By listening and responding to
feedback, we are able to mobilize resources to raise our level of customer satisfaction, improve
our ability to anticipate future product needs, and enhance our understanding of key market
dynamics. We are confident that diligence in following this path will position Skyworks to
participate in numerous opportunities for growth in the future.





REVENUES FROM AND DEPENDENCE ON CUSTOMERS; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION

For information regarding customer concentration and revenues from external
customers, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We compete on the basis of time-to-market, new product innovation, overall product quality and
performance, price, compliance with industry standards, strategic relationships with customers and
baseband vendors, and protection of our intellectual property. Certain competitors may be able to
adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer
requirements, or may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of
their products than we can.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Our products and markets are subject to continued technological advances. Recognizing the
importance of such technological advances, we maintain a high level of research and development
activities. We maintain close collaborative relationships with many of our customers to help
identify market demands and target our development efforts to meet those demands. We focus our
development efforts on new products, design tools and manufacturing leveraging our core
technologies.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials for our products and manufacturing processes are generally available from several
sources. It is our policy not to depend on a sole source of supply unless market or other
conditions dictate otherwise. Consequently, there are limited situations where we procure certain
components and services for our products from single or limited sources. We purchase materials and
services primarily pursuant to individual purchase orders. However, we have a limited number of
long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Certain of our suppliers consign raw materials to
us at our manufacturing facilities. We request these raw materials and take title to them as they
are needed in our manufacturing process. We believe we have adequate sources for the supply of raw
materials and components for our manufacturing needs with suppliers located around the world.





BACKLOG AND INVENTORY

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products, with
such purchase orders officially acknowledged by us according to our own terms and conditions. We
also maintain Skyworks-owned finished goods inventory at certain customer “hub” locations. We do
not recognize revenue until these customers consume the Skyworks-owned inventory from these hub
locations. Due to industry practice, which allows customers to cancel orders with limited advance
notice to us prior to shipment, and with little or no penalty, we believe that backlog as of any
particular date may not be a reliable indicator of our future revenue levels. The cancellation or
deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a
change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which
could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment,
the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other activities affecting the environment have had, and will
continue to have, an impact on our manufacturing operations. Most of our customers have mandated
that our products comply with local and regional lead free and other “green” initiatives. We
believe that our current expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation
necessary to comply with present regulations governing environmental protection, and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims, will not have a material adverse effect on
our liquidity and capital resources, competitive position or financial condition. We are unable to
assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements.

SEASONALITY

Sales of our products are subject to seasonal fluctuation and periods of increased demand in
end-user consumer applications, such as cellular handsets. The highest demand for our handset
products generally occurs in the calendar quarter ending in December. The lowest demand for our
handset products generally occurs in the calendar quarter ending in March.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

For information regarding net revenues by geographic region for each of the last three fiscal
years, see Note 18 of Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The majority of our tangible long
lived assets are located in the United States of America and Mexico (see Note 18 of Item 8). Risks
attendant to our foreign operations are discussed in Item 1A-Risk Factors.

EMPLOYEES

As of October 1, 2010, we employed approximately 3,700 persons. Approximately 450 of our employees
in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements.



