ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS





RISK FACTORSDISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE



International TradeThe Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade
has the potential to expand or contract the Company’s primary market and impact its operating results. For example, international trade is influenced by:

•        currency exchange rate and currency
control regulations;

•        interest rate fluctuations;

•        changes in governmental policies, such
as taxation, quota restrictions and other forms of trade barriers and/or restrictions;

•        changes in and application of
international and domestic customs, trade and security regulations;

•        wars, strikes, civil unrest, acts of
terrorism, and other conflicts;

•        natural disasters and
pandemics;

•        changes in consumer attitudes
regarding goods made in countries other than their own;

•        changes in availability of credit;

•        changes in the price and readily
available quantities of oil and other petroleum-related products; and

•        increased global concerns regarding environmental
sustainability.



Third Party SuppliersThe Company is a non-asset based provider of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset-based third party suppliers. The quality and
profitability of the Company’s services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party suppliers. Many of the Company’s third party suppliers have incurred significant operating losses and are highly leveraged
with debt. Changes in the financial stability, operating capabilities and capacity of asset-based carriers and space allotment made available to the Company by asset-based carriers could affect the Company in unpredictable ways, including volatility
of pricing, and challenge the Company’s ability to maintain historical unitary profitability.



Predictability of ResultsThe Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short-term customer requirements. However, long-term customer
satisfaction depends upon the Company’s ability to meet these unpredictable short-term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Company’s single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company
must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short-term operating results could be disproportionately affected.A significant portion of the Company’s revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose
shipping patterns are dependent upon just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Company’s revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Company’s control, such as a sudden change in consumer
demand for retail goods and/or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until
late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price
of the Company’s stock.



Foreign OperationsThe majority of the Company’s revenues and operating income comes from operations conducted outside the United States. To
maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations.In addition, the Company operates in parts of the world where common business practices could constitute violations of the anti-corruption laws, rules,
regulations and decrees of the United States, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and of all other countries in which the Company conducts business; as well as trade control laws, or laws, regulations and Executive Orders imposing
embargoes and sanctions; and anti-boycott laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws, rules, regulations and decrees is dependent on the Company’s employees, subcontractors, agents, third party brokers and customers, whose individual
actions could violate these laws, rules, regulations and decrees. Failure to comply could result in substantial penalties and additional expenses, damages to the Company’s reputation and restrictions on its ability to conduct
business.









RISK FACTORSDISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE



Key PersonnelThe Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Company’s employees.
Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract.The Company believes that its compensation programs, which have been in place since the
Company became a publicly traded entity, are one of the unique characteristics responsible for differentiating its performance from that of many of its competitors. Significant changes to its compensation programs could affect the Company’s
performance.



TechnologyIncreasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon
the Company’s success in the cost effective development, maintenance and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Any significant disruptions to these systems could negatively affect the Company’s
results.



GrowthTo date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Company’s ability to
continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non-dilutive acquisitions.



Regulatory EnvironmentThe Company is affected by regulations from a number of sources. The current business environment tends to stress the avoidance of
risk through regulation and oversight, the effect of which is likely to be unforeseen costs and potentially unforeseen consequences.In reaction to the global war on terror, governments around the world are continuously enacting or updating security regulations. These regulations are
multi-layered, increasingly technical in nature and characterized by a lack of harmonization of substantive requirements amongst various governmental authorities. Furthermore, the implementation of these regulations, including deadlines and
substantive requirements, is driven by political urgencies rather than the industries’ realistic ability to comply. Failure to consistently and timely comply with these regulations, or the failure, breach or compromise of the Company’s
security procedures or those of its subcontractors or agents, may result in increased operating costs, damage to the Company’s reputation, restrictions on operations and/or fines and penalties.



CompetitionThe global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in
one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against
both the niche players and larger entities.



TaxesThe Company is subject to various taxes in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions. The Company is regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although the Company
believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from the Company’s tax provisions and accruals and negatively impact its financial results.



Litigation/InvestigationsAs a multinational corporation, the Company is subject to formal or informal investigations or litigation from governmental
authorities in the countries in which it does business. The Company is currently subject to, and is cooperating fully with, an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) of air cargo freight forwarders. In addition, the Company and its
Hong Kong subsidiary received a Statement of Objections from the European Commission (EC) relating to an ongoing investigation of freight forwarders. These investigations will require further management time and cause the Company to incur
substantial additional legal and related costs, which could include fines and/or penalties if the DOJ and/or EC concludes that the Company has engaged in anti-competitive behavior and such fines and/or penalties could have a material impact on the
Company’s financial position, results of operations and operating cash flows.The Company may be subject to other civil litigation arising from these investigations, including but not limited to shareholder class action lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of the Company. The Company has been named as a
defendant in a Federal anti-trust class action lawsuit filed in New York and will incur additional costs related to defending itself in these proceedings.









RISK FACTORSDISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE



Economic ConditionsThe global economy and capital and credit markets continue to experience high levels of uncertainty and volatility. Unfavorable
changes in economic conditions may result in lower freight volumes and adversely affect the Company’s revenues. These conditions may adversely affect certain of the Company’s customers and third party suppliers. Were that to occur, the
Company’s revenues and net earnings could also be adversely affected. Should customers’ ability to pay deteriorate, additional bad debts may be incurred.These unfavorable conditions can create situations where rate increases charged by carriers and other suppliers are implemented with little or no advanced
notice. The Company often times cannot pass these rate increases on to its customers in the same time frame, if at all. As a result, the Company’s yields and margins can be negatively impacted.



Catastrophic EventsA disruption or failure of the Company’s systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, strike, civil unrest,
pandemic or other catastrophic event could cause delays in providing services or performing other mission-critical functions. The Company’s corporate headquarters, and certain other critical business operations are in the Seattle, Washington
area, which is near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of the Company’s critical business or information technology systems could harm the Company’s ability to conduct normal
business operations and its operating results.

